ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u6896	And I thank you for coming in. I would like to ask for a break on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU and the Independent List of Stipe Petrina, to discuss the problem of debtors, alleged debtors towards Austrian savings cooperatives, common name Raiffeisen and unequal practice of Croatian courts that allow completion on the basis of unworthy documents.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u6897	Okay. Do we have any more requests? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u6898	Your Honor, I would also like to request a brief recess. I would like to expose the problem to representatives in the Croatian Parliament regarding the conclusion of a contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the French-Turkish consortium in connection with the construction of a passenger terminal in Dubrovnik for passengers from circular travel.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u6899	Thank you. Anyone else? Dear Representative Shuker on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u6900	On the subject of the blockade of people who got loans in cooperatives from Raiffeisen.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u6901	Thank you. The other one? No one. Thank you very much. We have a break until 9.50. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] The first has the word of a respected representative of Stipe Petrina on behalf of the club HSU and Stipe Petrina, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u6903	I would like to thank the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. I would like to inform you that those of you who know more or less about this problem as well as the Croatian public about a monster that crashed on the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and in the form of loans, interest loans that were placed by illegally savings cooperatives from Austria and Styria under the common name Raiffeisen. Namely, it's not a problem to raise a loan, the problem is, can this loan be given? It is clearly prescribed by the positive laws of the Republic of Croatia who can borrow and do services in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and provide monetary or financial services in the form of loans and loans. The fact is that none of the 21 cooperatives that provided loans in the territory of the Republic of Croatia had any CNB licences has been registered in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, it is clear that although these contracts have been concluded with the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, they are primarily void or illegal. In addition to why these problems happen with our citizens who, by some assumption, are not only assumptions but also facts, there are as many as 61 thousand. Multiply that by 4 and you'll get an impressive number of 240 thousand people whose bond of debt slavery is very tight around their necks. The duty of this state, the duty of our parliamentary deputies, is to do everything we can to make sure that this problem is resolved. Why do I come forward in the name of that? Because this problem with the debtors of these cooperatives would never have occurred if it were not for the Croatian state's institutions. This is what I spoke of from this pay phone several times, putting it under the common denominator of institutionalally organised crime that destroys both the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian state as a whole. Namely, why do I say that? Here I have several examples of unequal court practice of Croatian courts. Therefore, it is clear to all lawyers and those who are not and those who are in charge of the legal system of the Republic of Croatia that the case law must be unique throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Here we have evidence in the form of judgments when a court, in particular the municipal court and the County Court in Sibenik refuses to apply for delays because the conditions for postponement of the case have not been met. However, we have the judgments of the Municipal and County Court in Varazdin who clearly say that the assumptions for the postponement of the operation have been created until the previous legal question is resolved which reads: "Are the credit agreements void?" If credit agreements are void, there is no legal business and there is no performance. It is a respected fellow Members and colleagues of mine appeal to you to try to arrange for a thematic session of whether the contracts are these interest agreements concluded by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have been notified by our voters, have the right to judicial protection which should be unique in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Why am I still saying that there is institutionally organised crime in Croatia? Because an Embassy of Peacekeepers submitted USKOK to the USKOK on 25.11.2013, so the Office for Organized Crime is a criminal application. Now listen to this, for organised international crime, fraud, illegal intervention, millions of euros in black, illegal representation, non-soliminization, falsification of documents and interest, interest rates, illegal decommissioning, conclusion of interest agreements. We wanted to admit it to me or not the respected colleagues and colleagues the fact that this case is destroying the constitutional and legal order of the Republic of Croatia and we have all sworn to protect the laws and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. You'll have to appeal one more time. I ask you to hold one thematic session on the subject of our citizens who have fallen into debt slavery. Your Honor, I apologize and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u6904	Thank you very much. I suggest that since it is the same topic that is now being spoken by the esteemed representative Shuker and then the esteemed representative Kristic will, since the subject is different if you agree, be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u6905	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Since I've spoken on behalf of the club several times over the past year and a half, now that we're no longer in opposition, we've taken responsibility for the leading state, I feel that I also have an obligation to speak on behalf of the club what I said a year ago and a few more days ago. So, as a club, we suggested that the government, the justice ministry, would bring a moratorium to blockades for these procedures for several reasons. Because several institutions in the Republic of Croatia had to do reconnaissances and see what happened. So I think that since 2001 Croatian citizens, Croatian companies have been given the opportunity to borrow from outside, however, on one condition, which is that the credit they received outside Croatia can exclusively enter through the jury accounts and the companies were obliged to report it to the CNB. If it didn't happen that way, then certain laws are broken. However, here in the era, so to say offerings of everything and everything in the Republic of Croatia, there were intermediaries who offered to easily get credit from Raiffeisen's associations. And most of it was from the area up in Međimurje County and the most affected were watching such a group of citizens from the island of Rab. If you take as many as you can. So these intermediaries came to them, offered loans, was enough just to sign to give a certain property, whether the country, whether the house was in stock and got credit. The key question now is who and how he put the money into Croatia. I've spoken to representatives of the organizations of the blocked citizens in this very same way. And secondly, many citizens unfortunately did not pay the money on the jury account, but they gave it to those intermediaries who in principle never paid the money on the bank's gyro. The second question arises whether the entire nominal amount of credit has been given to these citizens or whether these intermediaries have taken a commission. So if that happens, they have committed a criminal offence under all the positive laws of the Republic of Croatia. And that is why certain institutions, so the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior, the Tax Administration, the Croatian National Bank, should simply have done the tests. And I have suggested to many people who have contacted me over the past year that they personally go to Austria, to Raiffeisen Bank, to see what the situation is and to clear it up there. However, it is obvious that, and that is why I have answered the word that institutions in the Republic of Croatia and even the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should have raised it to a higher level and it simply has to be resolved in such a way. So it has to be true who, how and why. And if the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have confirmation that they paid something, then it must simply be recorded as such. And secondly, these banks have to make new contracts with the citizens in a certain way and see how that works out. Sadly, however, many of them are still individually trying to solve certain problems, and that is why we are in the situation in which we are. Therefore, the HDZ Club remains on the view that the Ministry of Justice should have put an end to the exercise. The second thing the Ministry of Interior was supposed to react at the time when various characters with cameras were walking around Rab Island taking pictures of citizens' properties, entering practically unauthorized on their private property. So that's what we should react to. And today we think we should do the exact same thing. To determine the actual state of affairs. Unfortunately, many citizens will find themselves in the same awkward situation because they were unconsciously made aware that they had committed a practically foreign exchange customs offence because, in accordance with the CNB's decision, they could be in debt outside and that these money in Croatia could only enter with the CNB's application and through a jury account. All that was done besides that, unfortunately no institutions in the Republic of Croatia had any idea of it until the problems of Croatian citizens emerged. So that's one layered problem and we also have a layered solution to it. But to solve it, we have to start solving it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u6906	Thank you very much. And now I'm going to ask the distinguished representative, Kristic, who will speak on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u6907	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, I thank the opportunity to address my colleagues with several sentences regarding the contracts that the Croatian government should soon sign with the French-Turkish consortium on the construction of a passenger terminal in Dubrovnik. So to remind my colleagues, it is a very valuable investment from the total estimated value of 98m euros in which the territory of the Greek equator in Dubrovnik should be entrusted to the French-Turkish consortium on the 40th annual management. What is controversial in this story is that citizens of the city of Dubrovnik, as well as city councilors of the city of Dubrovnik, have no knowledge of the elements of the contract that should be signed tomorrow. How about who will take over the costs of solving unresolved property legal relations, the cost of building very expensive and demanding infrastructure that should enable the integration of such a large giant project into the city of Dubrovnik infrastructure, which you all know is very modest especially that of traffic but also the latest UNESCO monitoring that is supposed to be completely contrary to what it wants to conclude in that contract. So this contract, i.e. the French-Trusco consortium, foresees an increase in the number of passengers that Dubrovnik should visit on circular trips from the current approximately 800,000 to a million-and-a-half million and the UNESCO monitoring forecasts that in the future that Dubrovnik would not come to the list of endangered world heritage will be possible only at one point receive about 8 thousand passengers from circular travel that can visit Stradun at one point. So this is one direct threat to the city of Dubrovnik. As you know, the city of Dubrovnik is now on the list of protected cultural heritage, under UNESCO's protection, and on the list was only threatened in the 1990s when we suffered Serbian Chetnic aggression. So, in no case is there any intention of stopping or stopping such a valuable investment here. However, Croatia and we here in the Croatian Parliament know about the history of concessions, various concession agreements, contracts in a public-private partnership. I will only mention the question of sports halls, and also the question that will certainly be opened here soon in this Chamber, the construction of the Zagreb airport, and we in Dubrovnik have a question of public garages that could wrap Dubrovnik in black, and numerous projects that just because of bad contracts have resulted in bad effects, great damage to the Croatian budget. Therefore, my request is one more time since this Croatian Government did not find it appropriate to speak to the City Council of Dubrovnik Commission, to include in this contract the very important facts we want to present to them, that, before drawing up the concession agreement, Minister Butkovic should the representatives of the Government also receive the City Council Commission of Dubrovnik to prevent damages to the Croatian budget and those things that have already happened many times so that Croatian citizens do not pay unnecessary damages to poorly concluded contracts. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u6908	Thank you very much. And now we would move to the first point of today's agenda. And now we would move to the first point of today's agenda, which is 3. Report on the work of the Croatian programme council and on the implementation of the programme principles and obligations of the Croatian Republic of Croatia established by Croatian law and between the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Radiotelevision and the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the period of mandatarianism of 1. January 2014 Until 31. PROSIN 2014 So, I'm stressing it's 2014. The report shall be submitted to the HRT Programme Council on the basis of Article 26. HRT law. You've received the material into the boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Information, Media Information. You received reports from those committees at the session. The government has delivered its opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. The Honorable President of the HRT Programme Council, Mr Bruno Kraljić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7691	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable MPs, respected MPs. I'll just brief, very short given that you've got the materials to explain I'm drafting the report. It is designed to give a dubious brief review of the meetings of the Programme Council and the topics discussed by the Programme Council. In 2014, it held 10 of its meetings and a provisional review of the conclusions and opinions adopted by the Programme Council during 2014. The Council also adopted an opinion on the HRT Report on the achievement of the objectives and obligations set out in the contract with the Government regarding the fulfilment of the programme principles and objectives of the HRT. In that opinion, the Council concluded that HRT, in the most part, did not fully comply with the contract of the prescribed quantitative obligation, and that HRT generally met the orientations but with the comments made by the Council in its opinion. I would just like to warn you that it is an integral part of our report, which shows the Council's views and observations, suggestions and conclusions that the members of the council and the council as a whole spoke to the HRT administration. I must conclude that the legal changes of 2012 have significantly reduced the powers of the programming council. In this respect, the Programme Council could not have affected the improvement of the implementation of the programme principles. The only concrete mechanism written by the programme council in 2013 did not result in any concrete consequences at that time, so in 2014 the programme council gave up the model in favour of more frequent sessions and oral warnings to the directorship of the HRT which the Programme Council also has no concrete reaction mechanisms. In any case, the position of the Programme Council is that what is within both the law and the contract which is highly quantified and very precise and rather precise determines percentages and, on the other hand, in articles 71-89, provides the possibility of broad interpretation of exceptions. It has tried and seemed to us that it has succeeded in achieving its legally prescribed role more as it has consistently proposed to HRT to initiate the procedures for amending the contract with the Government, a contract still in force with some minor changes from 2015 which this report does not apply to, and it would not now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7692	Thank you very much. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7693	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So the arguments that you have given now in such a short address cannot be accepted, given that in the Report that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the opinions it has given on your report clearly states that the programme council has not completed its task legally and has not sent written warnings to all the failures made by HRT management in terms of the programme. So I think this is the kind of nerdy explanation you've given to show everything from the record. The notes are one and the written warnings are those that remain permanent as a reason that HRT management as well as the editor-in-chief must respect and ultimately carry out what you have found. This has not happened and therefore we believe that you have a responsibility to this Croatian Parliament as well as to the Government of the Republic of Croatia that contracts are not respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7694	Thank you. Does the Government representative want to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. Excuse me, the boards are first. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Honorable representative Andrija Mikulić, chairman of the Committee on Information, Information and Media. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7695	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, President of the Programme Council, Deputy Minister and Chairman of the Supervisory Board, Honored colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, the Committee on Information, Information and Media considered the 5th session held on 13 April 2016. Report on the work of the HRT Programme Council on the implementation of the programme principles and obligations of the HRT established by the law on HRT and the contract between the Croatian Radio Television and the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the term of office from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014. The Committee considered that report as a parent working body. At the time of the debate, the Committee held the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the report in question. In his opening statement, the president of the HRT Programme Council said that in 2014, the programme council held 14 sessions and discussed its role as defined by the HRT Act, the HRT Treaty and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the general acts of the HRT. It also discussed the current topics related to the monitoring of the fulfilment of the HRT programme obligations defined by law and contract, as well as the reports of HRT Commissioners related to complaints and suggestions from HRT users. Citing the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which refers to the said report, the Minister of Culture said the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the Croatian Parliament not to accept this report. He pointed out that in the report on the work of the Croatian Programme Council for 2014 and the opinion of the Croatian Programme Council of 3 November 2015, it pointed out that HRT did not meet the focus of the content and qualitative obligations set out in the contract between the HRT and the Government of the Republic of Croatia during 2014. However, some television reports show that there are derogations and lower performances of the contracts established for individual software types on channel HTV 1, HTV 2, HTV 3, HTV 4 and international television channels. It also pointed out that in its report on the work of the Council for Electronic Media and the Agency for Electronic Media for 2014, the Council for Electronic Media established that there are derogations from contracted programming obligations and smaller shares from the contracted, while the HRT 4 also noted software content which should not exist there. In addition, there has been an excess of allowed advertising in one hour on HRT 1 and HRT 2. It is also clear from the Radio Report that there is a lower realization of some programming species on Croatian Radio 1, HR2, HR3 and Voice of Croatia and individual regional radio centres. Although according to the current provisions of the contract between the Croatian HRT and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the ratios of programme content should be adjusted. The government notes that the report does not state the possible legitimate contractual reasons for the deviation from the programme content ratios. It pointed out that the report and the opinion of the Programme Council in question did not show that the HRT Programme Council acted in accordance with the legal obligation to deviate from the established programme content ratios and that the opinion of the Programme Council in the essential segments was incomplete and incomplete. Finally, it was also said that the programme council in respect of the professional standards and quality of content and services achieved did not show that it was responsible for monitoring these principles, thereby failing to fulfil its legal role and being responsible for the poor quality of software content on HRT and for failing to fulfil the legal and contractual obligations of the HRT. The Committee also asked the President of the Programme Council whether the Croatian Programme Council had warned the editors and directors of the HRT of breach of legal and contractual obligations and programme principles and whether those warnings had effect. It was answered that the programme council’s observations were given orally as recorded in the records and considered that they had fulfilled their obligations. Some remarks have been observed, some have not. But only the programming council does not participate in the creation of the program. Furthermore, the opinion was also expressed that the contract of the Croatian and Croatian Government was signed at 5 years and that it had not expired and the reporting period for 2014 and the fulfilment of the commitments should be seen after the end of the contract 2017. However, it was also said that the contract was signed for 5 years but there is an implementation plan for each year, and for example, advertising rules apply to every hour. Following the discussion, the Committee decided, in accordance with the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, by a majority vote of 7 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 1 abstentions, to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: "The report on the work of the Croatian Programme Council and on the implementation of the programme principles and obligations of the HRT Act and the Treaty between the HRT and the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the term of office from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014 shall not be accepted."
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7696	Thank you very much. The other committee reporter? No, I don't. Thank you. Then I'll ask the Honorable Deputy Minister of Culture, Mrs. Anna Lederer, to further explain his opinion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7697	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. As you have already heard in the 2014 report on the work of the Programme Council and the opinion of the Programme Council of the HRT on the report on the achievement of the objectives and obligations of the HRT under the 2014 Treaty with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it is pointed out that HRT fulfils in the most part the contract of the prescribed quantitative obligation and that HRT generally met the orientation, content and quantitative obligations of the contract between the HRT and the Government of the Republic of Croatia during 2014. However, according to TV and radio reports, the real situation is the following. With regard to quantitative obligations, there are lower performances of software obligations than the contract established for individual software types on all TV channels HTV1, HTV2, HTV3, HTV4, the international television channel established by the Council for Electronic Media in its 2014 report, and this for HTV1, HTV2, HTV3, HTV4 where HTV4 contains content which should not be a fun game programme. In May 2014, the Council recorded on HTV1 and HTV2 and over-commitment of advertising in one hour. Furthermore, there is a lower realization of some programming species on the Croatian Radio one, two and three, the Voice of Croatia, and certain regional radio centres Sljeme, radio Osijek, radio Pula, radio Rijeka, radio Zadar, radio Knin, radio Split, radio Dubrovnik. The Programme Council’s report does not state the possible legitimate contractual reasons for the deviation from the programme content ratios. The Programme Council’s derogations in question were obliged to warn the Croatian Directorate, the editors-in-chief and the HRT Supervisory Board, which was not done as it follows from the report. On the other hand, in terms of qualitative obligations, given that, according to the programme principles in the HRT programmes, the highest professional standards must be respected, and the provision of content and services of the highest quality should be ensured. The Council did not manifest itself on these principles, i.e. on the quality of the programme, although the HRT law is responsible for monitoring the same ones, and although there are a number of complaints relating to the quality of the programme and professionalism, adopted by the Commissioner for Consumers of Croatian Radio Television for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2014. It's final. In 2014, the HRT Programme Council failed to fulfil its regulatory tasks and failed to warn the Croatian competent authorities of the derogation and lower implementation of the programme commitments of HRT and to require and fulfil the programming principles, particularly in the section relating to the provision of the content and services of the highest quality. The Council is therefore responsible for the poor quality of software content on HRT, and ultimately for the failure of the legal and contractual obligations of the HRT. For these reasons, the Government of the Republic of Croatia considers that this report cannot be positively assessed and proposes to the Croatian Parliament that that report should not be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7698	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourists, the first word will be taken by the distinguished representative Jaroslav Pecnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7699	I welcome all present. Well, before we do, we've heard here something that's probably true, not likely, but certain. But I would ask one question first, whether it can be said that HRT is public television, or public media and service, or actually state or party television. I think even the most optimistic answer knows, so if we put it in the context of the objection, then it's more or less clear. I'm going to quote Mrs. Vilovic, a professor of media ethics, as she is the authority, so let me quote her who says, "Every time the government changes, they immediately follow the changes on Croatia's radio television that we beat to the public media." Let's remember the election campaign, Mr. Karamarko in his enlightening spirit says HRT makes us crazy because we're patriots, there's going to be a change on HRT. Miljan Brkic, a well-known Democrats, says, "There are all spies or a large part of the spies." And I wonder, "What bothers him?" Well, they're actually people who match his mental frame. They can do what they want best. From Kaptola comes the voice, says Mr. Miklic, editor-in-chief of the Voice of the Council "HRT is... "Thank God, we see everything now is the same as it was. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In other words, since the announced changes, there will be nothing. But let's go back to what's really a topic. When we talk about, in fact it's all a topic but when we talk about the Programme Council and its work during 2014 I think it's worth warning about something that is still a problem today and which will probably be a problem for a long time and for which we are all interested to try to solve. The Council said it discussed plans to restructure correspondence. This is what is constantly mentioned, that the correspondence network of correspondence, regional centres, studies, etc. It should be strengthened, it should actually give more space, and let's say that there are interested minority representatives in those environments where minorities live. Indeed, the Croatian programme strategy and the Croatian programme channels should be discussed and the implementation of the programme obligations should be considered outside Croatia, and special attention should be given, that language and speech should be given on HRT. I think we're all aware when we listen to HRT if we're not Zagrebers that we actually see that in HRT we don't speak literary language or at least not those who should talk speaker, reporter, etc. And it's something that doesn't have to be something that matters, but if it's a public service, then the obligation is known how, how to speak. And what was interesting to me in this, which is that HRT says, that is, the Programme Council says that the proposals of the National Minorities Council should be accepted, programmes intended for Croats outside Croatia should be improved and programmes intended to inform members of national minorities should be more integrated into the regular HRT programme. It's about the report. I also find it interesting what the HRT commissioner was doing. It's quite one, it's already one experiment that I think has shown its own, it's actually no longer an experiment, it's been going on for several years, it's shown its full purpose and its full purpose and it's considering software parts, meaning it's communicating with the viewers, and it's being shown to it by viewers, listeners to what's the problem, and then we see here in this report the Commissioners of software parts that are most objected to, but also those software parts that have accepted the praises. I'm not going to say it right now, but there's some, what I resent, or I think the problem with this report is that it's a small number of how to say it, there's a small number of people involved. Therefore, we do not know the objections of 45 people or I do not know, it is very small but that is what is available so the biggest objections were for 2014 and on Good Morning Croatia, Dnevnik 2, Radio Sljeme. And now I don't say here you have why you're complaining, on Sundays at 2, TV calendars etc.. But at the same time when praises are given, then again it is said that Radio Sljeme received the most praise, then on Sunday at 2, then Good morning Croatia, documentary programme, film program. So let's say it is said why, which is why films, film cycles, the first program of Croatian Radio. And now the shows that are there are listed, are mainly about political shows for what they are for, but not only about what politicians are interested in. And it's actually a good one, I think it's a good picture to figure out what actually is, how do I say, listeners and viewers interesting and not interesting. I think we should also point to the Commissioner's functions. They are modelled by the best European media and the best European traditions, but it is certainly necessary to strengthen with perhaps one team of people who will help to do so, to do so in the right way. What I think is neglected in this report and what's very important is the radio program. Because mostly when a debate is being held on television and the radio program is far more quality for me, especially Croatian radio first program and Croatian radio third program that actually represent can be said, especially the third programme, which we can be proud of and which we certainly must prevent and prevent from being possible, and there were such opinions that we should transform, change or even abolish the third programme. It is the opinion of many who deal with this topic that Croatian was doing the first program, that it stagnates, but still has so many quality personnel that it is not actually noticeable. But for a long time, that's gonna be a problem. When we talk about the shows, I will not list them now, but I think it should be one that lasts for 10 years on the first Croatian Radio programme, it is the Inventura - a week under Ms. Ivan Hedl Šubarić and Ivica Ružić. Because for 10 years being innovative, agile, following in the best possible way that happens on the policy plan objectively I think the quality that needs to be highlighted. Of course, I express my personal opinion, but I hear that many others think the same way. The third program is important as much as it is not just a cultural program, you have a whole range, you probably also listen to music from classical to jazz, to shanson, from philosophy of art to science. But here is actually the best promotion and Croatian culture, Croatian music, Croatian authors. And that's something you should support anyway. In fact, it would be good to reach out to the public more and more, but unfortunately we have the situation we have. When it comes to local radio stations, since I come from Osijek, I would just briefly mention that the Radio Osijek programme, because I listen to it, deals with issues of state and local politics and self-government, but it also deals with a lot of civil society problems and has two minority shows that are very interesting, it is in Hungarian language a show that has already been stalking, which has been going on for years and a slightly newer Slovak word and song that I, like Slovak, have complaints about but now I will not be here to be always against my own. It is good that such a show exists but should be easily updated or somehow made more attractive and modern. And now only at the end of a few words about the state of the HRT. When I say about the situation on HRT in what was left after Mr. Radman, because the employees themselves were dissatisfied with what was actually on it, in that medium they were working on. The three biggest problems are, at least, those understood to say, functional multimedia organisational integration, the matrix structure that has been created since 2013 and the editorial policy. When it comes to this functional multimedia organization of HRT, these are actually words that come from the Goran Radman programme and actually wanted radio and television to push in one business unit that is thought to have two consequences. The radio would lose its independence because all department managers are mostly in television and the department is not an editorial, it is a working unit that delivers a product that orders business units. The matrix structure that we were talking about is also something that is the programme of Mr. Radman who was trying to replace the standing analogue structure instead of radio, music production and general joint work are set up new units of production, technology, business and management support. I quote this because it actually opened up a huge space of editorial power and the program is said to be on television products like shoes. And that is how I say no more joint colleagues of programs and productions, so it is not possible to coordinate joint work on these programmes either. The current situation on HRT and still is, in fact, the state of the cold war between these two business units and this should be changed and this should be a task perhaps more than a human resources policy which is also of course not negligible. I'm the last time there was a talk about Mr. Radman's shift, so I won't repeat it to the BBC system as one that can be our role model because the BBC doesn't recognise the separation of business and programming policies. The director of television, radio, digital activities, information program oversees and business and there is nothing strange there because actually business policy and money is also reflected on the programme and the program is reflected on business policy. It's about connecting and digitizing the program, so we have a role model, we know how to do it, but it's important to finally mention whether before Mr. Radman arrived on HRT the situation was not good, leaving if it changed, I doubt. It would be good to change. Mr. Radman had a unique opportunity to change the situation on television. It's not, is it the new government going to do it? I'd like to, but it doesn't raise hope because it's actually seen as a party prey. In any case, regardless of personnel and in the year when we mark 90 years of radio and 60 years of Croatian television, we need to strengthen the content of the public service, strengthen professionalism, prevent estradisation, restore the value of copyright work, emphasize the importance of correspondence in which we have already spoken. Of all the things I've just listed, V.D. Director Siniša Kovacic said he announced the objectiveisation of media reporting, no matter what it means. Important shifts can occur if this policy moves away from television but we are all aware that this will not happen so that we accept or do not accept programme reports the story will be repeated next year. Nothing's gonna change. As far as I'm concerned, I don't have a say in accepting or not accepting the programme council's report because the Programme Council has no authority and no authority, the Programme Council is so advisory, it's like a holy guide that neither harms nor benefits.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7700	Thank you very much. We have one whole sequence of replicas. She is the rightful representative, Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7701	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague, you mentioned that there have been a number of remarks and commendations about the work of certain programmes or radio stations, but I do not think it is that important for the work of the programme council, given that it is clearly defined what HRT should do under contract with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So it was found that certain reports of television appeared to have deviated. The deviation occurred also where you, as some viewer or listeners, praised as it did on Sljeme Radio, on Radio Osijek, on Radio Pula, on Radio Rijeka, on Radio Zadar, Knin, Split, Dubrovnik. Certain changes could have occurred. They're defined even by law. However, no one indicated why and why such deviations occurred. It is clear that you cannot say that there has been no failure and that the HRT Programme Council has no legal authority to act. It can clearly state what to do, what to do, what to do, which are removed from contractual obligations and the Law on HRT and act consciously and responsibly because there is a responsibility for them and for them not to act, and it is a failure that brings someone the ability to manipulate, to do the program as they please and to go in the direction that someone imposes on them. This programme council should have prevented and reacted every time in writing if it could not, it should have addressed the Croatian Assembly to whom the report was submitted. It's not done, and the gaps are huge and inconspicuous.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7702	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Jaroslav Pecnik will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7703	And I don't know I may have been clear, but I also agree that there have been a lot of gaps as we talked about it, but I just wanted to point out one thing that seems to me that's not the main reason for a negative opinion on the work of the programming council, that's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7704	The next replica of the esteemed representative Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7705	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow, I have listened carefully to your presentations. I'll return to your last sentence. When you say you can and do not have to accept the report, do not approach this problem, take this report and our debate about it as a guideline for further, and I absolutely welcome that part when you said let us look into the future so that HRT should continue to develop. And in your speech, you mentioned one very important thing that is most important to me and should come from this report, which is a question of co-operation of production and programme. The increasing debates in the Croatian society on the amount of the subscription, the necessity of the subscription, the obligation of the subscription, are raised by many citizens. The production must be accompanied by programming schemes and software ideas that, in accordance with the HRT Act, HRT must meet while production must ensure financial and technical construction. Therefore, by 2012, the programme had to be adopted jointly by the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council because some were tasked with ensuring production frameworks and considering production frameworks and others to consider programming frameworks. When this law was united in one person without parallel cooperation, these two bodies, of course, are experiencing permanent problems and will come before it changes. And they're very good at these changes where in the production sphere now during V.D. The mandate aims to unite right in production to sit there and people in charge of production and people in charge of the programme. And I think that's the way in which the production sense of Croatian radiotelevision has to go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7706	The honourable representative Jaroslav Pecnik will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7707	Well, here's a miracle. I have to agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7708	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7709	I'd like to agree with you in the section that you need to decentralisation, i.e. that you need to strengthen the regional TV house. However, when you spoke in this section, it means in 2014 and so in all the past years you forgot to say when you gave praise in one part during Radman's TV while he was director, our citizens are paying a TV subscription not to be just three to four on-call critics who will create opinions on any daily-political topic, ideological-worldly. This can't happen on public television. I remember the time and you for a while you were often... until you were a parliamentary representative on Croatian Radio. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it's not good for certain groups to have their representatives either ideologically, worldly or any other, to impose their views on the entire nation. And that's the fact that on HRT years ago it's been working that way. And that's not good, and our citizens don't want to be imposed on them by ideological-worldly and any other day-to-day political attitudes. This should be done in the future, and this should be the conclusion that it is a public service for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7710	Thank you. The honourable representative Jaroslav Pecnik will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7711	So I'm just agreeing that we really need to expand the circle of world-famous people who are going to be involved in this. Since you said it yourself for a while, I was really often on TV, but to justify the editors, and now there I am. So here. That's how it works. But I want to justify the editors simply. They have too much to do. They have these phone numbers that are in the circle and it's just the logic of things to call the one you believe can say something interesting. Every experiment, new research is already a problem for the editor. I'm not just saying it as a fact. And we're all taking a line of some minor resistance, so I know that he's going to say that I don't mention names well now, and you know what there are and what they're called, which you know will say stupidity, so you call them on purpose. And not a single television or this new one, and neither will the old one, and they will not be deprived of the kind of person they need at a given time. Here's what I agree with you, anyway, is that we need to expand the world-wide circle.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7712	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Blaženko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7713	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleague, I agree with you in that part of what you say when the Programme Council really needs to be a broader spectrum of all Croatian public and you said that well. Unfortunately, we didn't have that in this council meeting. It was mainly dominated by either civil society or certain interest groups, associations, one spectrum. I also agree with you, and it's good that you said that indeed Mr. Radman, and during him, the criticism you have made, is true, but there it is. That's the fourteenth, that's behind us, that's the damage we can hardly bring back what we've done. The theme is the report of the fourteenth and your prejudge which will now be, that it will be the same if not worse with some new Council of Programmes or some new editorship on Croatian TV we really cannot agree. We'll probably discuss this over a year or two when there's another debate on the Programme Council report to prejudge something that's going to be difficult this moment really I can't say. You're obviously a psychic, so you see it and you know it will be. But I hope that the Programme Council will be what you recommended a broader spectrum of all Croatian public from the social, civil spectrum associations to be represented in the design of the programme through Croatian Radio Television and of course Croatian Radio. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7714	The honourable representative Jaroslav Pecnik will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7715	Well, if I were a psychic colleague, I'd be in HDZ. And I'm not a psychic, so I'm right where I am. That's one thing. But secondly, I just gave some of my doubts about it. Why? Well, because I'm pretty old and nothing really matters, including that former system, it doesn't change unfortunately. If this new government, the new directorship after the election that's being set up, deny me, I'll be the happiest, believe me.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7716	Thank you very much. We have one whole sequence of replicas. She is the rightful representative, Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7717	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague, you mentioned that there have been a number of remarks and commendations about the work of certain programmes or radio stations, but I do not think it is that important for the work of the programme council, given that it is clearly defined what HRT should do under contract with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So it was found that certain reports of television appeared to have deviated. The deviation occurred also where you, as some viewer or listeners, praised as it did on Sljeme Radio, on Radio Osijek, on Radio Pula, on Radio Rijeka, on Radio Zadar, Knin, Split, Dubrovnik. Certain changes could have occurred. They're defined even by law. However, no one indicated why and why such deviations occurred. It is clear that you cannot say that there has been no failure and that the HRT Programme Council has no legal authority to act. It can clearly state what to do, what to do, what to do, which are removed from contractual obligations and the Law on HRT and act consciously and responsibly because there is a responsibility for them and for them not to act, and it is a failure that brings someone the ability to manipulate, to do the program as they please and to go in the direction that someone imposes on them. This programme council should have prevented and reacted every time in writing if it could not, it should have addressed the Croatian Assembly to whom the report was submitted. It's not done, and the gaps are huge and inconspicuous.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7718	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Jaroslav Pecnik will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7719	And I don't know I may have been clear, but I also agree that there have been a lot of gaps as we talked about it, but I just wanted to point out one thing that seems to me that's not the main reason for a negative opinion on the work of the programming council, that's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7720	The next replica of the esteemed representative Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7721	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow, I have listened carefully to your presentations. I'll return to your last sentence. When you say you can and do not have to accept the report, do not approach this problem, take this report and our debate about it as a guideline for further, and I absolutely welcome that part when you said let us look into the future so that HRT should continue to develop. And in your speech, you mentioned one very important thing that is most important to me and should come from this report, which is a question of co-operation of production and programme. The increasing debates in the Croatian society on the amount of the subscription, the necessity of the subscription, the obligation of the subscription, are raised by many citizens. The production must be accompanied by programming schemes and software ideas that, in accordance with the HRT Act, HRT must meet while production must ensure financial and technical construction. Therefore, by 2012, the programme had to be adopted jointly by the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council because some were tasked with ensuring production frameworks and considering production frameworks and others to consider programming frameworks. When this law was united in one person without parallel cooperation, these two bodies, of course, are experiencing permanent problems and will come before it changes. And they're very good at these changes where in the production sphere now during V.D. The mandate aims to unite right in production to sit there and people in charge of production and people in charge of the programme. And I think that's the way in which the production sense of Croatian radiotelevision has to go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7722	The honourable representative Jaroslav Pecnik will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7723	Well, here's a miracle. I have to agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7724	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7725	I'd like to agree with you in the section that you need to decentralisation, i.e. that you need to strengthen the regional TV house. However, when you spoke in this section, it means in 2014 and so in all the past years you forgot to say when you gave praise in one part during Radman's TV while he was director, our citizens are paying a TV subscription not to be just three to four on-call critics who will create opinions on any daily-political topic, ideological-worldly. This can't happen on public television. I remember the time and you for a while you were often... until you were a parliamentary representative on Croatian Radio. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it's not good for certain groups to have their representatives either ideologically, worldly or any other, to impose their views on the entire nation. And that's the fact that on HRT years ago it's been working that way. And that's not good, and our citizens don't want to be imposed on them by ideological-worldly and any other day-to-day political attitudes. This should be done in the future, and this should be the conclusion that it is a public service for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7726	Thank you. The honourable representative Jaroslav Pecnik will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7727	So I'm just agreeing that we really need to expand the circle of world-famous people who are going to be involved in this. Since you said it yourself for a while, I was really often on TV, but to justify the editors, and now there I am. So here. That's how it works. But I want to justify the editors simply. They have too much to do. They have these phone numbers that are in the circle and it's just the logic of things to call the one you believe can say something interesting. Every experiment, new research is already a problem for the editor. I'm not just saying it as a fact. And we're all taking a line of some minor resistance, so I know that he's going to say that I don't mention names well now, and you know what there are and what they're called, which you know will say stupidity, so you call them on purpose. And not a single television or this new one, and neither will the old one, and they will not be deprived of the kind of person they need at a given time. Here's what I agree with you, anyway, is that we need to expand the world-wide circle.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7728	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Blaženko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7729	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleague, I agree with you in that part of what you say when the Programme Council really needs to be a broader spectrum of all Croatian public and you said that well. Unfortunately, we didn't have that in this council meeting. It was mainly dominated by either civil society or certain interest groups, associations, one spectrum. I also agree with you, and it's good that you said that indeed Mr. Radman, and during him, the criticism you have made, is true, but there it is. That's the fourteenth, that's behind us, that's the damage we can hardly bring back what we've done. The theme is the report of the fourteenth and your prejudge which will now be, that it will be the same if not worse with some new Council of Programmes or some new editorship on Croatian TV we really cannot agree. We'll probably discuss this over a year or two when there's another debate on the Programme Council report to prejudge something that's going to be difficult this moment really I can't say. You're obviously a psychic, so you see it and you know it will be. But I hope that the Programme Council will be what you recommended a broader spectrum of all Croatian public from the social, civil spectrum associations to be represented in the design of the programme through Croatian Radio Television and of course Croatian Radio. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7730	The honourable representative Jaroslav Pecnik will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7731	Well, if I were a psychic colleague, I'd be in HDZ. And I'm not a psychic, so I'm right where I am. That's one thing. But secondly, I just gave some of my doubts about it. Why? Well, because I'm pretty old and nothing really matters, including that former system, it doesn't change unfortunately. If this new government, the new directorship after the election that's being set up, deny me, I'll be the happiest, believe me.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7732	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ladislav Ilčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7733	Dear Mr. Pecnik, at the end of your speech, you expressed doubts about the objectification of the media reporting of the HRT by Mr. Sinisa Kovacic as his goal, so now as if objectification is impossible or that any shift is impossible. I'm going to give you just one personal example after some of my statements a few months ago on the show of the daily host is moving with the question of her guest with a very suggestive question, so do you agree that it is xenophobic, Nazi and totally unacceptable statements? So, not at all, he doesn't make his own statements first. So he's setting up a suggestion question. It's only Mrs. Aleksandra Kolarić in the studio, so that's how Hitler and Stalin started, and I don't know who doesn't. And after that, only Mrs. Sandra Bencic from Peace Studies appears in the contribution, which, of course, surrounds me to the end. Why am I saying that? I cite my example because I know him best. So, first of all, she was asking suggestive questions. Second, she only had one guest in the studio. As the third in addition, she had only one guest who cheered all on one side. So there are objective criteria in media reporting. So journalism isn't something that's come about like that, so it seems to us it could do it one way or the other. There are certain rules. One of these rules is that a journalist does not ask suggestive questions, the second rule is that the other side is always heard. It's one of the basic rules of journalism. And don't let me count on it. So if there's a possibility of objectifying why are you starting to relativize it? And to comfort you, given that I have over 20 years of training on HRT, I'm going to tell you that most of the journalists and editors on HRT are your worldview and they're tied there by a working relationship, we speak openly. You can't send them. Therefore, no matter how hard you try to report to HRT will always be. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7734	Thank you. The honourable representative Jaroslav Pecnik will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7735	... Mr. Miklic keeps warning. [[Specially enabled.]] So that's the part that goes for you, right? Does HRT have my orientations? Well, I guess there is, probably is. Are they in most? I don't know. And why am I expressing my skepticism in objectivity? I'd like it to exist, and I can really be bothered by the suggestion of questions when as a viewer or a listener I hear so just come and say yes, no. Well, I guess if you're a guest, you should give the guest a chance to elaborate what you invited him for, right? That doesn't happen often. But why do I have a skepticism of objectivity? Well, I'm just going to be a little rude right now, but not on purpose, simply knowing how to say the miles of journalistic, which association, which profile comes from Mr. Kovacic, I really can't believe in that objectation.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7736	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Draga Prgomet, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7737	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, the way and language spoken in Parliament about the media, I'm afraid it's a deep misunderstanding, which is the role of the media. And when I talk about the media, and even here these couples, so the debate has shown that the least important figures, the least important business, are the least important journalism. It is mostly all about ideological accounts, how many minutes are devoted to a particular party, from which options come if it is even known or what kind of worldview is a single journalist or editor, are threatened with cancellations, etc. And at least it's really talking about HRT as public television. I think we should all be honest and say that HRT is state television. That's how it was for the last government, that's how this government is set up. I don't think it's bad but then it should be legally regulated, shared the roles of the first and second programs, as other televisions or laws do, completely turned into public television, and then probably on public television, especially in a way that some journalist should ask someone a question we would never even talk about. Because if it's something important when we talk about our work, and that's the protection of journalism and journalists. It can certainly be argued to journalists that sometimes they are unobstructed but they are all guardians of democracy, their rights must be protected. And that should be the task of all of us citizens who have chosen to fight for public rights or for public interest. So the new law promised in the pre-election period should ultimately regulate what we will do with our television. I only know one thing that television can't get commercial. And last sentence, I wish you had in mind all of us both SDP and HDZ that mastering HRT is a guarantee of success in the elections then the government would never change.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7738	Thank you. I wish you hadn't used one word, and it's the guard dogs. It's just the guards. But in any case, the honourable representative, Jaroslav Pecnik, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7739	Well, I think that Croatian journalistic society is very well protecting its profession and journalists but, of course, for all those who have an objective free word to stand behind it. I've been volunteering for years to say I've been writing for all kinds of newspapers, etc. And I know about what the problems are, and I know some limits that you can go to. But the fact is that those who live on it, I don't live on it, so it doesn't matter to me now whether they take my text or not, but those who live on it are unfortunately exposed to concerns about everyday existence and of course they take care of it. And now this other thing you said we should admit it's state television. Well, that might be fairest. But then what's the consequence? Then let's say we can do as RAI did... the program. [[You don't understand.]] Well, I don't know if the Democrats have these, the communists have these, they have that program. However, this has also proved in Italy that it is not the best solution, is it? Therefore, there is no ideal solution. So the ideal solution is actually to make us smarter and have public television. But that's what I said I was skeptical of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7740	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Andrija Mikulić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7741	Dear colleague Pecnik and you when you spoke, and they say that repeating is the mother of knowledge, so I will say that by seeing certain reports for both television and radio, it has been found that there is a lower realization of some programming species, both at local and regional level and on Radio Osijek. I'm sorry, I realized that's sorry for you, too. But it's the same programming council that has powers but obviously it didn't consume them the way it was supposed to. So, it has a legitimate task to warn HRT in time of non-compliance with established obligations if we talk about it. And I think this is the point we're talking about here today. I agree with you absolutely in that part where you say the former principal didn't do what he had the chance to do. Well, that's why he's not the principal anymore. But let's give these people a chance to do something today, and let's not do it first because it's not in my view, so it's not good. So I think all procedures were respected in that section. But I will conclude with a statement by the then president of the HND in 2012 that says I commend the legal changes to the Kukurik coalition that allow the shift of the whole, let us not forget the legal and democratically elected administration at the very beginning of the term of office. He says a shift is needed as well as a new program. Well, now I'm telling you the shift was made and as you can see, every day you're doing shifts in the program, absolutely for the better.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7742	The honourable representative Jaroslav Pecnik will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7743	So I think that, let's say, I can agree with you, all that's violent, all that's actually going past the profession, is actually violence against a man, over a spirit, over a thought, whatever you want. What is not my will. Well, it's not my will that it's either the SDP or the Labourists, that it's never going to be or the HDZ are the ones who actually determine the rules of conduct first of all on television because television is the most powerful media, of course. But let's just say we're looking at the whole media, so it's not so tragic. We have a radio that's completely, because we don't listen to it, we don't think that's important, it's a different situation on the radio, not in all the programs, but it is. Therefore, there is something that is good, what is good should certainly be left behind, what should not be changed. And whether new people will change, so if they listen less to politics, they will and if they listen to one policy as well as the previous one won't. And we'll see in four years or I don't know as long as this House's mandate is going to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7744	Thank you. We will now go to the next club and this is the Club of Representatives of the SDSS Reformist in whose name the distinguished representative Milorad Pupovac will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7745	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable President of the Programme Council, the esteemed Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, a few words about the government's argument as to why it does not accept the Programme Council's report. The central place says that the content was not good, without one sentence of reasoning, what was wrong and what was wrong, no reason why we representatives of the Croatian Parliament could say the Government is right or the government is wrong. This is how you expect us to commit ourselves to whether we trust the government or not, whether we support the government or not. Therefore, I think you are required out of respect for this High House to make a statement of your opinion. Because it's an assessment based on which MPs should make their own decisions or debate. I don't know what's controversial in the government's view in the implementation of the HRT programme and what hasn't been done by the Programme Council in time. So please, I am pleading with the Committee, although I see that he does not have a hearing, I am pleading with the representatives and representatives of this House to teach the Government to respect this institution especially in cases of public interest, as is public television, such as public companies that we see become party, party prey. It is no secret that for a year now, in the halls of Prisavlje, you will see your God. What's that, what's that state of mind in public institutions, whoever's saying that, is left or right. Are the elections of the revolution? Is the election a coup? Is that how he treats a vital institution like national television? Or any public institution or public enterprise? And it does. Once for money and another for influence. And as representatives in this House and as a club I want to say here it is not in accordance with the Constitution, it is not in accordance with the founding act, it is not in accordance with the programming principles of the HRT for which we are in charge. When the authorities change, subtle things change under normal circumstances, the director, not lately 40 people from top to bottom. By reason, you know, you'll see something, you'll find something like that. By what standard? Well, according to the criteria of the parallel association of journalists that was founded two years ago. By that standard. And someone who's been around for 100 years, we won't respect her, so we respect our own institutions in the state. So we think it'll create that the state functions as an institutional order, so we won't. In this way, the institutions will hand over the self-willed party political groups. And the people and the workers will be handed over the willful capital. And it's a condition. I'm against it. And we all have to be against it because we don't have a state for it and we shouldn't have a state if that's why we wanted a state. Because it's a national betrayal. So why should one of the best editors on HRT in the mandate of the last set, on the third show programme, have no doubt been replaced, for what? Did he do a bad job? If he was doing bad work, did anyone explain why he was doing bad work? But it's not, it's going from top to bottom. And it's said we're against ideology and we're applying revolutionary methods in such things and we're bad because we're not going to progress, we're going into regression. We say, there will be no more ideological divisions and imposed ideological solutions, and look at which system people are appointed at the top places, it is very easy to read. What associations, what groups and ideologies do they belong to? If only they belonged to some serious political ideology, a man would say let them. But God doesn't belong to me, either. You are working to disband your party colleagues and colleagues from HDZ, working to ensure that national television fails as well as anything that is both national and public thinking that it will do something good for the party and party life. You may not know it, but I watch it, I see it, and a man comes to sit down and cry. Now allow me a few words about the current programme council by the part of the administration and about the appearance of censorships at the public service HRT. The installed process was someone's thing, someone didn't like it. A parody to the communist period when we had terrible mounted processes. In one democratic country, the parody has no place and we fight against communism very hard. And yesterday we were drilling against communism. And a show called the mounted process to make fun of such a past and make fun of those who forget it, and today they behave in harmony with such a bad past. We can't wait 15 days when their contract runs out and don't continue that contract unless we think it's their place, but we say no. You insult the Jews. The Jews say they do not insult us, so it is a parody, making fun of those who insult the Jews. Then you say no, it was a bad financial situation. Then gather civil society to support them, then HTV forbids it to be recorded and reported to them. Forbidden to film culturers 2016 and cover Kožarić's sun 10th April not a word about the shameful Sedlar film. The only one among all Croatian national televisions had no special or marriage news about the attack in Brussels 22.3. HTV didn't report it, it's software. HTV has not even reported an attack on Anta Tomic, has not published a photo of the meeting between Interior Minister Orepic and General Gotovina alone. Why? Sections of reaction to the Croatia-Israel game or letters. ... Since I see censorship working here too, then I'll just say the following. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[Incursion President: I ask you first not to throw from the bench and please remind me to talk about 2014]] I won't go on. And I'll tell you, Mr. President. If you support censorship in Parliament, I'll tell you colleagues, if you shut me up here like you're trying to silence me in fact out of public interest, I'll just say one thing. If members of the programming council are continued, as was the last session. ...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7746	.../Intruder President: You have been in the Parliament too long not to know that you have now injured the Rules of Procedure, polluting with the Chairman. Therefore, I ask you not to do so in the future. I, of course, also warned those who threw them out of the bench but said they needed to talk about the subject. Both words of the Rules of Procedure are very clear. Therefore, fellow Glasnovic, you have raised a breach of the rules of procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7747	This is inappropriate to talk like this and we're sick of Croats paying television and other minorities to drive So he speaks to Mr. Pupovec, insulting common sense [[The Incursion President: Excuse me, what article of the Rules of Procedure is injured?]] 238 here. [[/Intruder President: No colleague Glasnović, we can't talk like that. If you have committed a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you must state what article of the Rules of Procedure is injured and why?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7748	Okay, I suggest we move on to the replicas. We've got plenty of them. She is the rightful representative of Ladislav Ilčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7749	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm sorry Mr. Pupovci left, I really listened to him politely. I don't know how much sense to have to replicate but purely for the public. First, Mr. Pupovac went with a dramatic attack on the government to the extent that he said he didn't trust the Parliament, that he was saying that all this was not in harmony with the Constitution, that it was a national betrayal. I would like to say to the public that we, as parliamentary representatives, are discussing the report brought to us by the Croatian Programme Council and not by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian Programme Council lists everything we need to know can be shown, recommended or not by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We can trust her whether we support her or not. She can only write recommend not to accept the report. We don't need her on a hundred pages explaining why. This is described in the report of the HRT Programme Council. It's another thing. Mr. Pupovac left his entire second part of the speech based on what's being said in the halls of the HRT. So it's for one parliamentary representative completely below the level of seriousness. So we cannot base our speech on rumors and what kind of politics we conduct. Besides, I'm going to tell Mr. Pupovac or some Mr. Mile Horvat who's still here and I'm afraid he's transferring it here, so I've been in the halls of HRT a lot more than Mr. Pupovac. And I can tell you that in the halls of the HRT, there is indeed still much more glory in Jergovic, Tomic, and I don't know who is all that expensive than to talk about some sort of vengeful policy of this government. Therefore, under each level, such a dramatic attitude with such qualifications was totally unargued at the expense of the government's recommendation, which I repeat, is not required to provide any explanation because it does not exist in the report or on the basis of any rumors that may be heard in some circles that are closer to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7750	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7751	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's the shame that a fellow Pupovac left the assembly without wanting to hear the truth. When he says what was wrong, the Committee, as well as the Government's opinion, will decide not to accept the Programme Council's report and that it is not explained in any part of what was wrong. And it clearly states in the explanation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia what is wrongly numbered, tax-listed in which programmes did not respect the contract or the Law on HRT, where there are shortcomings and failures. And on the whole side, it's written what happened and how it happened. He does not want to accept it, he does not want to read it, he does not want to deal with it, he does not want to face it as a series of others who want to turn back to ideological warfare, who want to reverse the real truth and events, and the Council for Electronic Media in its report on the work of the Council as well as the Electronic Media Agency in the period from 1 January to 31 December 2014 set out in Chapter XII. the monitoring of the implementation of the HRT Act, that at HRT1, HRT2, HRT3 and 4 there is a derogation from the agreed programming obligations and a smaller share of the contract where the HRT 4 has been observed and the software content which, according to the contract on channel four, should not exist. Well, isn't that descriptive enough to say what was going on? I don't know what it's supposed to do to Mr. Pupovac, and to present to him that he understands what kind of indifferences were done and what were removed from the law as well as from the contract made on HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7752	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7753	Thank you very much, President. I find this a little unusual. A man comes for a pay phone, waves with his fingers, stops waving, threatens everyone. And if it's not my way, then we won't play anymore. Someone took my toy and I'm going home. Well, I mean, a parliamentary representative who goes out for a pay phone, speaks on behalf of the club must have the strength to endure and criticise what someone has the right to say to him here because he disagrees with what he said. And he's said a lot of things wrong here, and it's not true. And of course, as in last night's "Open" show is insinuating. He's always insinuating, and then he runs away, and I get angry. So be it! So it's not, it doesn't accept political struggle unless it's by his rules. It was a gentleman who took two days to condemn the acquittal of Vojislav Seselj. He has never condemned the rehabilitation of Chettice in the Republic of Serbia. Never! He never condemned the songs of some Orthodox priests because they were normal to him. That's all right with him. But he found someone down there in some village waving a flag somewhere but it's from HDZ. And here's the stasis in action. Well, I think there's a lot of debate in this House. If you stand behind your views, then heroically endure criticism, don't run away from the assembly. What this looks like, I think. So there's 20 replicas, man escape. We don't play by my rules, it'll be like I say. It won't be like he says! He's made a lot of rules in this country, enough! He says we've replaced the best editor He says we've replaced the best editor [[I'm asking you to calm down and let your colleague say what he wants.]] So I think there's a difference in the transfer of power. [[Come on, I'll leave the assembly, you see they're bothering you.]] [[Incursion President: Please, let's not throw it out of the bench.]] So in 2012, we testified that 40 editors were excluded, that for a year there was no "Open", you had no place to face political views at all. Ministers went one-on-one to Dnevnik And now you're telling us about the suspension. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] One more sentence, please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7754	Thank you, dear fellow Boric. You've exceeded your time. I agree it's inappropriate to yell from the bench but you're way out of time. [[Intruder Boric: But they take my time with speech.]] I will now give my colleague Miri Bulju the line, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7755	Thank you very much. Here I'd just say that Mr. Pupovac said this was a violation of the Constitution. I wish my colleague Pupovac was in power during Sanader and he was also a longtime parliamentary representative and was part of the ruling coalition and we are now discussing the 2014 Report. Well, that's what Mr. Pupovac was supposed to say about how much of the former government, and in one of them he was part of the government, how much they were working against the law, how late they were with the reports, and not now we're listening to division on again, there was almost a Ustasha and Partisan, which is sad. If this debate continues in this course and the Croatian citizens listen personally, I will no longer participate and sit in this session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7756	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Steve Cule, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7757	Praise Jesus, Croats and Croats! Yes, and I welcome you with a proper greeting in our Croatian Parliament. Who will rise up to be healed, who will not have to. I'm sorry he doesn't have an esteemed Pupovec representative so I can answer his statement. Maybe there's someone he can answer if he wants to. But it is inappropriate for anyone in the Croatian Parliament to wave a finger, especially for our president. I don't like it as a Croatian defender, as a Croat. I don't like much, but I keep quiet, I put up with it, I live, I last. I don't like not seeing the defilement of those who deserve it on HRT. In what way? How can the arrival of Seselj be celebrated in Slavonian villages? Celebrate with the Kalashnikovs, with the machine guns, with the brushing, with the songs. How are there discotheques with 500 people coming from across the Danube to a Chetnic orgy on my Slavonia? Is anyone wondering about this in Zagreb? Gentlemen of the intellectuals, I remember them from the '90s, who kept quiet, didn't answer, they didn't want to say anything in the defense of the Croatian people so they could tell those of their people who represented and represented them, so don't hit that people. For what? Because of some past wars, because of long faded bones. Who are we? Are we carrying all the wars of the past through us? Are we going to stick them back here to the Croatian people? Who are we to talk like that here? What fascists? Who's saying I'm a fascist? Maybe in some past life, every one of us was something, right? There is no Mrs. Pusic to tell us who they were and whose roots they were. I don't know who's mine or whose roots I wear except my father who wasn't in the war. And I won't let you insult us like that!
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7758	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Andrija Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7759	Dear President, it seems to me that tonight is the show on HTV that's called Open to someone leaving the studio when they've already left the assembly. So my experience in several guesting on HRT is quite the opposite. People were just coming in, whispering in my ear when I was coming out of the elevator and saying they were afraid to say something out loud during the former principal. But let's let it go. They weren't just telling me, there's a number of others who said that. Let's remember that Bartholomew night on HRT, 40 to 50 editors have been replaced. We forgot that, didn't we? This report speaks of a failure to comply with the provisions for achieving the quality of the programme. People complained and it wasn't adopted. And we forgot that. Says my colleague, I feel like crying. He's probably crying about an increase in the employment of a new leadership at HRT, for strengthening his own production on TV, for more transparent work. If I were a colleague, I'd cry the same way, but I'd cry for joy because after a long time we're finally watching the real Croatian radio. That television is coming back to what was truly the original task.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7760	Thank you very much. And the last replica seems to me to be that respected representative of Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7761	Thank you very much. I'm sorry that Pupovci's colleagues are gone and I'm sorry that he took advantage of the pay phone in this way, he tried to do something and say, but when something's not good, then it's not good no matter which side he comes from. If he mentioned the match of Croatia and Israel then he had to mention the basketball game Red Star – Cedevita. Unfortunately, Croatian citizens didn't have a chance to see it because it can only be seen at the sport club so if you pay because HRT doesn't carry it. However, so many hateful songs at the expense of Croats etc. It was simply a degutant listener. So, if my colleague Pupovac had pulled a parallel between one and another sporting event, then I would have said good for you. The second thing, colleagues and colleagues did not come from politicians in the Republic of Croatia, we did not. And we should've all condemned it. Just as inappropriate things should be condemned at matches in the Republic of Croatia. And what happens to us as a boomerang? The game is again played by Cedevita – Red Star in Zagreb and the basketball club Cedevita decided that the full income from that game goes to rebuild Vukovar. And you know who's making fun of it? Milosevic's mayor of Belgrade today's President of the Red Star Nebojsa Colic. He's making fun of it. He laughs at the entire Croatian people in the mustache. The Vukovar Tower is for every honest man with the synonym defense of Croatia, and the synonym of Croatia's creation. So who has the right to make fun of it? And then he says I could have organized a game for the victims of the Storm. Well, colleagues and colleagues, when we mention inappropriateness at one game, then we have to say it for another game, whether we like it or not, we didn't like it. Then we can say we're discussing democratically. But look where we went from the 2014 report to what's been going on in the last 15, 20 days. But colleagues and colleagues in 2012 were also replaced by all living things, then it was good, today it wasn't. But I say it all says best about us this way of speaking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7762	Thank you very much. Of course, as usual, our discussion goes in every possible direction except for what is actually the point of the agenda. So I once again appeal to all speakers to stick to the agenda points and the agenda point is to remind what happened to HRT during the term of office from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014. Of course I don't deny the right to talk about anything. As far as I'm concerned, you can talk about space nebulas, but we're still here to talk about those topics that are on our agenda. Here, on behalf of the National Minorities Club, the next will be shared by the distinguished representative Veljko Kajtazi and Shandor Juhas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7763	Thank you. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of HRT, respected colleagues and colleagues. I've already talked about HRT's work on several occasions. And I can say that every year I can take what I said before and repeat it. As a representative of 12 national minorities, I must point out that I am dissatisfied with the program, the work of HRT when we talk about minorities. HRT is the only medium given that it is a public media that has a public duty to fulfill minority representation and minority representation in an appropriate and decent way that, in my opinion, it has not been realised so far. And not only in my personal opinion, but also in the opinion of the Council for National Minorities of the Republic of Croatia and in the broader context of HRT does not meet a number of other obligations which it is obliged to do. In the report itself, the programme, HRT on the implementation of the programme principles and obligations of the HRT established by the law on HRT and the contract between the Croatian Government for the term of office of 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014 it is clear that programmes intended to inform members of national minorities should be more integrated into the regular programme and that HRT should increase the role in promoting the equality of minorities and their co-existence with the majority people and preserve their co-existence with the majority people and preserve their cultural identity, which is in line with the opinion of the Council for National Minorities of the Republic of Croatia with which I agree. We often say that minorities are our wealth. But what does that mean? This means that it's something we already have, it's the untapped potential of our country that needs to be shown to both the majority people and minorities, and thus to show them that they are an equal part of our society. Why doesn't it seem to date is a question for HRT. In the recommendation with which the program council,... I want to highlight the word integrated into the regular program. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] My understanding of that opinion leads to the conclusion that it is not enough to have two shows dealing with minority in one bloc. In order for the Croatian Radio and Television programme itself to be quality and interesting to all citizens, it is essential to find mechanisms for this minority content to fit into the broader context of the overall programme content. The way the issue of minority issues is now being addressed is not integrated. I am sorry to hear that Croatia's live show is cancelled, which is one of the few high-sighted shows that presented the topics of importance for minorities. Just a few days after she dedicated some of the contents of World Roma Day, she's how I find out she's canceled. Why the media does not often show successful Roma, educated and wealthy Roma, who contribute to society through their work. We all know that shows like Maninian mosaic or Prism don't attract a lot of public attention. Although, of course, it's commendable that they exist. However, in a crisis and terrorism situation affecting Europe, there has been turmoil and conflict of minority and radical currents. We must remain a state of high respect for the rights of national minorities. And not only on the recommendations, but really doing that role. This certainly successful authority and every director of this public service must meet as a minimum of the conditions of what they would call good work. Although HRT is currently not fulfilling its public role when we talk about minorities, what can be read in other media is very successful in this difficult situation for all our citizens and especially for the Roma national minority is carrying out the collection of their public work. Yesterday, counterpart Miro Bulj spoke about the number of 300 thousand of our citizens who were blocked and 300 thousand unemployed citizens. Among them are 90,000 completed citizens due to the payment of HRT, which, through various law firms, comes into the situation that they are charged and taken away from the impossible. Until, on the other hand, HRT adheres to its own legal obligations. Although I agree that a quality program is something someone has to pay for. The question is who and to what extent. In the previous assembly of parliament, an initiative has emerged, which envisioned that lower-income citizens, at least one of the most socially vulnerable, will be released from the obligation of full payment of the amount of the subscription of about 960 kuna. There is too much cost on the annual basis for a large number of our citizens, especially members of the Roma national minority. Given that this debt is increasing multiplely due to the accumulation of interest, a vicious circle is created, debtors who exist permanently unable to become independent and functional citizens of this country. The legal provisions are unfortunately too often broken on the back of those most threatened. Of course, that does not mean that money is not needed by public service. HRT is our national interest and measures that could affect the most vulnerable citizens must not affect such insufficient software content of our television. In Europe, there are a number of examples of full lifting of provisions that predict that citizens are directly paying for a radio-television fee. Let me list only some of the EU Member States that have fully abolished the payment of HRT fees from their citizens, Finland, Hungary, Iceland, Malta, the Netherlands, Estonia, Bulgaria, Spain, Latvia, Bulgaria, Cyprus, etc. In all these countries, citizens do not have a model HRT fees according to our model. Or in those countries, they don't have to single out what little they have so they don't target some law firm. Even in countries that have similar legislation like us, for example, Germany has built in the possibility of exceptions for citizens who receive social assistance for persons who are in school, persons with disabilities, etc. We must not forget the educational role of HRT. HRT plays a prominent role in education and socialization of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. A more qualitative programme would also have a positive impact on the Roma national minority whose television is certainly, each type of exclusion from society is one of the main ways if not the only way to monitor social events and self-education. I propose to the HRT Programme Council that it really respects the recommendations of the National Minorities Council and that it fulfils its role as public service in the future. And at the same time, to stop the practice of charging this kind of work and interest for this poor work of our most endangered citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7764	Thank you very much. The continuation of time will be used by the distinguished representative Shandor Juhas.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7765	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'm not talking about Ustashas or Partisans. I'm not going to cry, but I'm not going to drill and I'm not going to talk about those who aren't here. I'll talk about the report and I'll talk about some of my colleagues' opinions. According to the opinion on the report and the achievement of the objectives and obligations of the HRT under the contract with the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2014 point 5, the Council considers that HRT should improve the integration of minorities in HRT programmes. With this position of the council, I cannot agree. Article 18(1) of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities states: The stations, broadcasting at national, regional and local level have the task of promoting understanding for members of national minorities in the languages of national minorities, the creation and transmission of programmes that encourage and promote the maintenance, development and demonstration of cultural, religious and other self-loathing of national minorities. Not to mention, I think the obligation of the station and the broadcasting to national minorities is more than clearly defined. In addition, the Advisory Committee for the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities of the Council of Europe adopted the following opinion in Strasbourg on 18 November 2015. The fourth opinion on Croatia clearly states that the Government must take care of the rights of minorities decisively and with a clear definition of what is both a residual and priority and an integral part of the international obligations that Croatia has made in the field of human rights and with the aim of curbing the revitalisation of nationalist views and for the purpose of actively promoting hardness and respect for diversity in society. The recommendation for emergency action, which was then adopted, suggests that in close cooperation with minority representatives, the government should develop effective mechanisms to ensure that members of national minorities are granted their rights without the negative consequences arising from the election. The Council of Europe Advisory Committee is asking the authorities to raise awareness of Croatian, international and national legal obligations towards national minorities. I cannot stress enough how important it is to start carrying out the obligations set out in the contract and to achieve, accordingly, the representation of minority emissions in the media. I can't stress enough how important it is for the minority shows to start talking about those who are minority representatives and not people who aren't and according to those who aren't really competent to talk about minority issues and minority issues. I cannot stress enough how important it is to end the media ghettoisation of national minorities. I think it is essential that HRT works to promote the equality of minorities and co-existence with the majority people and to preserve minority, cultural identity. A whole series of shows and a whole series of areas exist that are not sufficiently processed. National minorities are only referred to as the problem of this country. Very little is said on television and in other media about positive examples of the co-existence of national minorities. I didn't see, heard, etc. a lot of shows about Baranja, about Bela Manastir, who was also occupied, where there are also 20 national minorities living in the town of Bela Manastir and where for years there have been no national conflicts, where life is peaceful, where there are Serbian institutions, Hungarian institutions, Roma institutions, where there is also a department in Serbian, Hungarian, Croatian, and everything goes well with its course. No one's going to talk about it, but we're just talking about, talking about negatives. Prime Minister Oreskovic stressed in January that minorities are rich. And I think they really are. Minorities are among other things invaluable cultural wealth, and culture is a whole social heritage and it is sad to see that it no longer pays particular attention in these times when attention should be directed to that area because only from there can new energy and a new social impulse reach both for the overall atmosphere and for economic cycles. It seems to me that HRT hasn't yet learned that we could tell a primary school lesson. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7766	Thank you. We've got two replicas on our colleague, Keatazi. The first is the distinguished representative Margaret Mađeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7767	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to support and, in fact, believe that it is unfortunate that the Programme Council has not responded to the criticisms of the National Minorities Council in order to be represented and equally represented and the programme and software content on HRT is precisely related to the topics which have the content of the national minority. But I would also point out another discrimination that we have witnessed and the Programme Council of all years has been deafening, which is moving the news from the first Croatian television programme in 10 and 14 hours that have been translated into sign language. Since everyone equally pays the fee and that Croatian television is primarily public television, it is very important to enable everyone equal access and content and it is also a kind of discrimination that is unacceptable. And then such shows shifted to HRT4 that wanted to be created as some new news channel. And since it does not cover all of Croatia on the other hand, we see what the goal was. Also censorship, also censorship, and I think it's unacceptable that we don't have a national minority programme as defined by the law. And on the other hand, not only is it discriminatory but it is also sad, so many have also cried about the news translated into sign language being lifted from the first channel, so from HRT1.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7768	Thank you. The honourable representative, Veljko Kajtazi, will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7769	Thank you. In one part, I agree with you. In the other part, I disagree with you. Noting that unlike other countries in the region that have a specific programme and minutes for their national minorities, it is much bigger than ours. Because it is about the recognition of 22 national minorities and the programme that is going on, especially as the national programme "Prizma" or "National mosaic" I think that the programme is meant for, not only national minorities but also for the majority population. To know the wealth and culture of national minorities, but that's basically different with us. If the show goes early in the morning at five o'clock in the morning, a rerun or if it goes somewhere at 10 o'clock, the majority of the population will certainly not contribute much attention. And I repeat again, so the "Prizma" national programme is intended for the majority population, not national minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7770	Thank you. And the next replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj also for the esteemed representative of Keatazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7771	My colleague Katazi, you've done well. Public television by Croatian citizens has done 90000 Croatian citizens not for 200 kuna debt or 240, for three wars but for that reason, but 1000 kuna are still being taken by public notebooks and private lawyers and creating their own empires. Imagine if that's 50 million as the Minister of Justice said. 50 million kuna. This was supposed to be the 2014 report. At that time, parliamentary deputies who were in this mandate prevented this from being blocked by 90,000. And that's the topic that we need to talk about, and that's what a HRT of 3,000 people in the system needs must have 200 lawyers. That lawyer contract gave a private house to a lawyer to take a thousand kuna to our citizens. And now the pensioner who's got 2,000 kn pensions takes his 1250 kuna toll. He can't get away with it anymore, 'cause of course where he'll be? On the street. It is a problem, a key problem that so much of our citizens' resources are being taken by lawyers and public notaries who create their own empires to all citizens irrelevantly about nationality. Imagine that these funds were invested in HRT programmes and other needs of either the majority people or minority, irrelevant. And 90,000 people times four, how many people it is because of HRT, because of those peaks and now on the street. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7772	Thank you. The honourable representative, Veljko Kajtazi, will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7773	Comrade Bulj, I fully agree with you. I would just add that the most socially vulnerable groups, and especially when it comes to the Roma community as I have repeatedly mentioned 98% when you have a minority who is not at all attractive and has no means at all, and their television is just one of the most time they spend and in some way where they can learn and learn a lot. And it's my personal opinion that we have to do everything we can to get such socially endangered groups released. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7774	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the word will be taken by the distinguished representative Andrija Mikulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7775	President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, President of the Programme Council, distinguished deputy ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. So here's the report on the work of the HRT Programme Council for 2014. The main task of the HRT Programme Council is to represent and protect the interests of the public. Or it should be the task of the programming council. This shall be carried out through the supervision of the HRT programme through the control of the implementation of the principles and obligations laid down by law and by the Treaty between the Croatian Government and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the written warning of the directory and the editor-in-chiefs of the HRT if they are not respected. As well as improving radio and audiovisual programmes and other HRT services. The work report should therefore show how the programme council has been supervised by the HRT programme and what measures it has taken when it finds that the HRT violates the law prescribed and agreed programming principles and obligations and how it has contributed to the improvement of that programme. In its 2014 Work Report, the Programme Council pointed out that HRT was in the most part fulfilling the orientations, contents and quantitative obligations set out in the contract between the Croatian HRT and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. However, that finding is not correct and it is confirmed that the programme council did not carry out at all the monitoring of the programme in the manner laid down in the law. So they didn't consume what they could and had to in the end. It was also easy to see deviations from the agreed ratios of software content that consisted of both television and radio. Therefore, it was found that there are certain software types on the channel that I said HTV 1, HTV 2, HTV 3, HTV 4 and the international television channel certain things that were established by the contract and were not consumed to the extent necessary. Radio reports, as well as earlier discussions, show that there is a lower realization of some programming species. Since the first programme, the second programme, the third programme of Croatian Radio, Glas Hrvatska, certain regional radio centres such as Radio Sljeme, Radio Osijek, Radio Pula, Radio Rijeka, Radio Zadar, Radio Knin, Radio Split and Radio Dubrovnik. I believe it is important to point out that the Council for Electronic Media in its report on the work of the Electronic Media Council as well as the Agency for Electronic Media in the period from 1 January to 31 December 2014 has set out in Chapter 12. – control of the implementation of the HRT Act also that, on HRT 1, HRT 2, HRT 3 and HRT 4 there are derogations from contractual programming obligations and smaller shares than agreed, with software content observed on HRT 4 which, according to the contract on channel HRT 4 should not exist, entertainment and play programme. The electronic media Council also found in its report that the HRT 1 and HRT 2 channels in May 2014 also exceeded the allowed advertising in one hour. But apparently those who should have followed it and probably followed it did not use the powers they had and warned those they should have. In its report, the Programme Council did not state at all what could possibly be justified contractual reasons for deviating from the agreed programme content ratios, although the contract provided for that possibility to change the contractual ratios, of course, but provided that this is for justified reasons. The Programme Council also had an obligation to monitor whether the highest professional standards are respected in HRT programmes and whether the provision of content and services of the highest quality is ensured. As regards the professional standards and quality of content and services achieved, the programme council was unfortunately not manifested at all. That the quality level of the supplied content is unsatisfactory and a number of objections received by the Croatian Consumers Commissioner for HRT during that period, as described in the 2014 Report of the Commissioners, which was also accompanied by the programme council's report in question on the damages to the programme council had a legal obligation to warn the directory of the HRT and the editor-in-chiefs of the HRT. However, it is not possible to conclude that the programme council acted in accordance with that legal provision. A respected colleague, taking into account the fact that the fee paid by Croatian citizens is public money which can be used exclusively for the realization of software content as the contract with the Government of the Republic of Croatia provides that the level of the fee is determined precisely in relation to the contracted ratio, type and quality of the software content to be delivered to the citizens, it is evident that the lower realization of programme achievements on both television and radio and their insufficient quality, HRT, has severely injured the contractual obligation because of the amount of public money or the level of the tax, and we know that it is defined, which has been approved by the contract for the delivery of certain quantities and quality of the content programme, delivered content of less scope and poor quality. So very simply put. For what we're paying, we didn't get the favor we were supposed to get. A smaller range and even worse quality than it should be. The fact is, therefore, that the Programme Council has not fulfilled its obligation to monitor the programme, neither in terms of the range of software content nor its quality. Nor did it use the law prescribed warning mechanisms for Croatian broadcasting authorities. It is therefore co-responsible for the poor quality of software content on HRT, and for the final and non-fulfilment of the legal and contractual obligations of the HRT. Therefore, on behalf of the club, I, too, personally assume that the report on the work of the HRT Programme Council and on the implementation of the programme principles and obligations of the HRT Act established and the contract between the HRT and the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the term of office from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014 cannot be positively assessed or accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7776	Thank you. And your exposure caused several replicas. It is the first to be respected representative of Zeljko Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7777	I think you should, the Honorable President of the Parliament, refer to... An inspection, a financial inspection to see if it's exactly an eldorado for kleptocrat. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have an appropriate example where four years ago a single case against one HTV employee, an officer where 58 million kuna went missing, that's not peanuts. You should also see here, a review of investment investments and other... fractures for external affairs, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the faster since this last case has been four years, we haven't moved. And if there's a piano out there somewhere in the country war, someone stole a piano from HRT, I can think of what happened to these other departments where we have 3.5 thousand employees, a whole brigade and no one knows exactly what they're doing. The sooner you send a French inspection there and see where these 58 million kunas went, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7778	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7779	Dear colleague Mikulić, I listened very carefully to what you said. In a few moments you have referred to what is actually the people who have chosen us in this House of Commons, which is the quality of the programme, or what is obtained for their money, or what citizens are subscribing, which is the legal obligation of citizens to finance and want for that opinion... In addition, you also mentioned that there is a document called the contract with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which sets out the programming bases and the percentages of certain programmes that should be as well qualified and quantitatively respected. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, this contract and these percentages are the only basis on which the subscription as such rests. It is considered to be one of the types of state support compared to commercial television. And when negotiations were held with the European Commission in the process of Croatia's accession to the European Union, the contract and these programme content are the only arguments on which Croatia could defend the survival of the public media service or its financing through subscription. Because, of course, unfair competition can be opened towards other media houses, only it is correct if these funds are used to produce the software content prescribed by the contract. So it's not a small problem but it's very serious which is actually one of the pillars of survival of the public media service. And that's why you said well that this report should not be seen as a political act, but rather a guideline of how to behave in the future, and that would like the members of the Programme Council to act, and in that sense I think it's very good that you pointed that out.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7780	The distinguished representative Andrija Mikulić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7781	I couldn't agree more on what you said, so neither by quality nor by scale do you get what you're supposed to get. However, in order not to turn out to be a subjective attitude, let me just quote one well-known professor who said, informatively, only a section of the information program, the HTV information programme is hard to look at and because of which both private and national television houses that have no media tradition or rich archives, or a mass workforce of several thousand people, or a network of correspondence in the country and the world, or a secure multimillion-dollar income from mandatory subscription. All these technological, working, financial and traditional resources are not enough to produce not only the most visible but even the politely viewed information programme. So I'm talking about what was a few years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7782	Thank you very much. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative of Blaženko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7783	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleague Mikulić, you have shown by example how he is really strictly, about the subject and critically exhibiting himself. I must say, I have been extremely pleased to hear the technical thematic presentation on this subject. And why am I telling you this? During the presentation of our colleague, Pupovac, I receive a very short message, says the Honorable Mayor, please do not replicate these disgusting meals, so we were also provoked in the '90s and we were silent and we were creating our own homeland. And today be at the height of the task, do not provoke yourself, but work for our better Croatia and our children. You have now shown how in some ways professionally and critically to look at certain points of the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7784	Thank you. And the last replica of the distinguished representative, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7785	Thank you very much. My colleague Mikulić, we have to go back a little bit to really get to 2014 and what it looked like since yesterday and today we are listening about censorship and shifts on HRT. In the seventh month. 2012 v.d. Mr. President. In 20 days he replaced 40 editors. After that comes the new director, Mr. Goran Radman. Of course, the party in the attack of self-satisfaction and one boasts that we will turn HRT into our service and cancel a single show in which you could face attitudes as politics, i.e. As power and opposition, they shut down Open for a year and more days if I'm not mistaken, you had nowhere to come, nowhere, you couldn't say anything. Relations in information emissions, authorities and opposition, minutes of opposition to almost five minutes of government. And they say no censorship, everything's fine. And then, of course, Pantovich shows up. There is synergy between the government and the former president. Issues about the Homeland War completely disappeared from the public service even though they were legally and agreed. Those journalists who wanted to write something, do it and didn't like the authorities being replaced. They also got some fired. Information emissions in the middle of the presidential company in 2014, we remember. Only selected contributions in favor of one candidate. For three and a half years, the candidate in the Republic of Croatia has been supporting over 80% of Croatian citizens. He wins in the first round with the great majority. They come up with a choice, we all realize that someone knowingly lied to us, a public service. It didn't happen like they said. It didn't happen. And what we had as a conclusion of the party then say HRT is a public service, public television, no censorship, what censorship, these are top professionals who objectively and professionally serve Croatian citizens with information. Today we hear censorship, cancel, so I mean everything in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7786	Thank you very much. Now the answer will be given by the distinguished representative Andrija Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7787	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Boric, I agree with what you said. So here's some statistics so you don't forget. 20.11.2015. so I have data, 2014 was worse than this 15th. All day's stake in the created HTV ratings of 1 14%, HTV 27%, for comparison on 15.07.2012, so right before the change of the HRT Act and the law came to remember because they installed V.D. Director-General Kukriku of Novokmet Coalition. That entire day's share in your ratings was 1 23.5% for HTV and 8.9% for HTV. So very quickly he managed to reduce it to half as capable and professionally as possible. So the numbers say more than anything. So who would, let me be smart on their three programmes national HTV 1, HTV 2 and HTV3 at the same time playing similar content, specifically movies, what we do to each other competition on all three HRT programs. But I will remind the then director, Mr. Radman, has announced this in his program, which says on page 9 media channels would be transferred to independent software units that will be, etc. The only thing he didn't write and probably meant at the same time how to supplement each other so much and to be competitive with each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7788	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the word will be taken by a respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7789	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Queen with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. So here's when we start this report by myself we just have to ask ourselves a key question, which is what are the powers of the programming council. And it's very clear and unequivocal to comment. Therefore, in the opinion issued by the HRT Programme Council on the report of the objectives and obligations of the Croatian HRT under the Treaty with the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 2014, it is all apparent to read including all the objections found in the Government's opinion at least according to what I read. So empowerment, production of my own drama, television program, empowerment of children and young people, etc., not to repeat now. However, there were some opinions that we do not need to discuss here the opinion given by the government. I think that we should and it is good that the government is giving opinions because there is time for this because there are legal proposals, reforms and so on, so at least let us see. But at least this opinion of me as an agent has not convinced the argument that this report should be rejected. In fact, of the 11 members of the Programme Council, the Croatian Parliament appoints 9 of them, I think that is precisely why the Parliament is the most invited body to decide on the report of this body that we almost fully appoint. On the other hand, what the Government states as a disadvantage is some counter argument that we have not seen in our opinion, not even in the report, because it does not deal with this, but when we talk about a contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Government on the achievement of certain content in the programme then there are two interpretations since this contract is not concluded for a period of one year but for a longer period of time and that the proportions of certain software content are not seen in the range of one calendar year but in the entire contractual period. It's something to debate. We can talk about it, but we need to know that there are different opinions that don't come from me, anyway, but they were presented to us amongst others and that. We also need to bear in mind when we talk about the powers of the Programme Council, that the Programme Council could not have affected the improvement of the implementation of the programme principles, nor could it affect the achievement of the programme content quota as set out in the contract, which is largely within the competence of the Supervisory Board. What the Programme Council could do is point to failures, but we all know, unfortunately, what our democratic political practice can be like, most often, there is no specific effect, or it can be respected and it does not have to be respected. So their opinions, their pointing to the problem, are not binding. The Board of Directors, i.e. the editor-in-chief, or the Supervisory Board may take them into account or not. The legal minimum for meetings of the Programme Council is four a year. In this period, there were 10 of them. Therefore, twice as much as was intended, i.e. as provided for as a minimum, as a legal minimum. And if you're reading the records of these sessions on everything that we're discussing here, it's also about the sub-representation of certain software content and the quality of the programme itself, etc. etc. And all these recommendations were made, although in oral form, and I think that's actually the only crime we can attribute to the Programme Council that instead of written apparitions was oral. But the record shows everything, i.e. everything can be seen and read. When we talk about the quality of the HRT programme itself, I don't think it's a subject for today's 2014 report, but we can talk about whether we are more satisfied or less satisfied with certain software content. So I can say some colleagues have said before, that I really don't see the problem that a public television has a satirical program, a program that looks humorously at social events, even our history sometimes. Because laughter is the cure of a colleague and a colleague. And if we can't laugh at ourselves how we can actually live a healthy intellectual life. At least I don't think we can humor against the dark anyway. So, according to us, there are no arguments to refuse this report. The programme council has completed its task, pointed to failures and we will vote accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7790	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is Honourable representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7791	Dear colleague, you said there were no arguments to convince you of accepting or not accepting the report. So I think in the last term when you were also a parliamentary representative, I think I lost my throat by making arguments, my nerves were standing at the end of the line saying, in my opinion, pretty argumentatively related to HRT. And as for the various variants of contract interpretation in that version that you have performed, HRT could show only a documentary programme in a five-year period in one year, then show only a minority programme for the next year and then show only a sports programme in the last year. And if we were to add that up, after five years, the percentages would match your contract. So no, a colleague can't do it like that. The program contract must be collected year after year and there it is precisely defined by which channel. Because this is how you interpret cumulatively after five years you can get into a situation that one year you only have a documentary program, the second year just informative, third year just sports, the fourth program of the fourth year just a minority program. And with the number, anything would suit you. That's why serious people don't sign five-year contracts, but they sign two and three-year contracts or go first with a one-year contract that we made in 2011 just so things can be fixed and kept under contract, so that they don't have this kind of situation so that the director with the Pharaohic powers jumps out of your programming scheme and programming obligations. And then the Programme Council comes into a situation to listen to it, not listen, you haven't been able to write it, and that's why we have this debate the way we have it. Let's try to see it as a guideline for the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7792	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7793	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Mesic, I didn't say I agree with that interpretation, I just said that it exists. After all, we can therefore discuss whether or not we will also observe on a monthly basis what content has been achieved or not. And I agree with you, that some of the contents aren't represented enough. For example, if we talk about programmes intended for national minorities. They mean the purpose of the programme itself is not to inform the national minority, but to inform the majority. Therefore, these software content should be more integrated into the regular Croatian broadcasting programme as well as the report and established, as well as sports, information and so on. etc. So we can discuss it. But there are bright examples. I think my colleague, Pecnik, put it before me. I would like to set the Croatian radio as an example of an exceptional quality program, especially Croatian Radio Osijek, and their information program, which is extremely correct and exactly what the information program should be. So it can serve us as an example because journalists and editors on Croatian Radio and Radio Osijek are really trying to show up if we talk about some political issues all look at a particular political matter, or a particular political problem. From what you're saying, I would conclude, so I know that you were always one of the major critics when we discussed amendments to the HRT Act and now. But then I expect it from you to prepare the amendments to the HRT Act as you see it should be and let's discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7794	Thank you. The next replica, distinguished representative Margareta Mađeric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7795	Thank you very much. A fellow representative pointed out that he had no and no arguments as to why this report would not be accepted. So now I'm rhetorically wondering, and I guess you either haven't read the report completely or you don't want to see the arguments. A colleague Mesic presented them with a series, not only today but for the last 2, 3 years, and what is definitely one of the strongest arguments is the fact that just in 2014 the systematic destruction of HRT began. The correspondence networks from Sisak, Bjelovar, Slavonski Brod, Koprivnica, Karlovac, Varazdin, Gospić and all the way to Metkovic have been shut down. What is most regrettable is that you have another argument from fellow MPs that Radman abolished correspondence in both Sarajevo and Mostar for savings. For example, correspondence in Sarajevo used free space in BiH's television building, sending a really clear message that it does not care about Croats outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia. And you need to know that our Croats in BiH and Croats in the diaspora Croatian TV is the only and most important bond with the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7796	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7797	Thank you. So we're discussing the HRT Programme Council, I don't see what the programming council has to do with this. It must indicate the quality of the program. The work of the programme council is not the finances of the HRT, but the quality and content of the programme. I have read this report in great detail as well as the opinions given by the other programming council on the basis of reports submitted by the Croatian HRT on the implementation or achievement of the Croatian Government's objectives and obligations under the contract with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And they say repeating is the mother of knowledge, so I'll read what the programming council has concluded. In this sense, the Council takes the following opinion: "Croatian Radio Television has generally met the focus, content and quantitative obligations of the contract with the following observations: the Council holds that HRT needs to strengthen the production of its own drama TV programme, the Council holds that the TV programme for children and young people lacks quality emissions, the Council holds that in the information programme, the events of the early removal of emissions and reorganization and warns that HTV 4 as a specialized channel has not yet been revived in its function, the Council holds that there are no sports programmes that promote recreational activities and less commercial and amateur sports, the Council holds that HRT should improve the integration of minorities in HRT programmes." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7798	Thank you. Next is the Club of Representatives of the Most and Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7799	Honorable representatives of the government, the rapporteur, the esteemed Vice President, fellow MPs and fellow MPs when we talk about Croatian public television is not the best thing to do just now to discuss 2014, it tells us that the former government was late with this report and we who were newly elected in the Parliament that we got means now only the report that was to be discussed last year. Also when we speak, here I read here for the 2014 report, so I saw a number of complaints from citizens based on all the basics of information emissions to cultural events there were a lot of complaints that the council was getting these complaints from citizens. As appropriate or not, but people were meant to mean our citizens who pay were dissatisfied. Because yet our citizens pay it 80 kn per month, and if 3 wars don't pay, then 240 and then the execution goes and then they get another 1000 kuna on it. You need to change that, in future everyone from HTV is taking our citizens 1,000 kuna for 200 kuna. That's what I'm saying because 90,000 times 4 means somewhere around 300 thousand people are hungry today because they've blocked their accounts because of HTV. I will mention this as long as it doesn't change, and those from HTV can do it because you have 3,000 employees for this program that you have and certainly you have at least 10% of the lawyers and people who can do this job that they gave to private public notebooks or lawyers who create their own empires in the territory of the Republic of Croatia while our citizens are asking our citizens in containers to survive food waste or bottle purchases. Is it even possible for a public television network to do this, regardless of what this part is about now, directly to the programming council? Whether these hundreds of millions of kunas carried out by private lawyers and public notebooks would be much better programme and children's programme and national minorities and for defenders and all other groups that should be represented in the programme. It is also noticeable that I do not now list all complaints of citizens, it is noticeable that in recent years, even before we always have three to four critics on HTV either from some associations that I allow to represent but why always the same? And why is there always a similar worldview and ideology? I think public television should have a broad discussion if it is a broad spectrum of people in its IT programme that can come critics because there are Croatian people who can talk about various topics, and not in every day-political topic a couple of people who give an opinion and they make up the opinion of Croatian society. Most likely now that person sits in the square of Ban Jelačić, twisting his fingers... I don't know. [[You don't understand.]] Maybe they're professional, maybe they're competent, maybe it's a journalist's judgment. It is not necessary to interfere with the press profession but it is certain that the Programme Council should, of course, warn the director of the strongest and think about it in the future. It's not just... It's been four years, it's usually on HRT to impose some ideological world-wide attitudes on society. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is no debate that would give, I remember the time when it entered the European Union, everything is wonderful and wonderful. All the political options have now spoken in the Parliament about the European Union, we must enter to flower. There was no critical opinion on the problems that will await us in the European Union, which we are now living in the European Union, but everything was unanimous. It will sow stars in Croatia, it will be nice, so there was no critical opinion. I think that these things should be changed by the programming council and that this width of Croatian public broadcasting should be represented by our people and accepted. decentralisation is also very important because the programme from regional centres comes selectively because it is not well teamed up on the ground and there are not enough and we have 3,000 employees on HRT, cca. Three thousand. That's a huge number of people. And certainly the same information cannot come from Osijek if it is a weak team, either from Dubrovnik or from other smaller places, it can certainly be from it. Because it can't be all centralized in Zagreb. So decentralisation on HTV, and certainly, would be a much richer program, because surely in these areas there is something to record and show, to show from Slavonia to Dalmatia all over that width. The MOST Club, since we've analyzed everything and seen it, and saddens me, once again, what's this report since 2014, which says that the past government could have done, were most likely and previously working so that it could have been, MOST Independent Lists for the reasons and objections that... and the Council has not taken much action to make it more difficult for the Director to accept the report, does not support this report for 2014 by the HRT Council. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7800	Thank you. We have one replica of the Honorable Representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7801	Dear counterpart Bulj, you are on several occasions when you talk about this topic suggests the problem of forced charges, i.e. enforcement of, due to unpaid obligations to HRT by citizens. I'll say here, so you're absolutely right, we talked about it several times in the last term, even the HRT administration said it directly at a meeting of the National Minorities Council. But there's something to say here, when you analyze exactly the fact of the costs that you point to, you see that proposal for a performance then you see that it's a 5.6 legal action. And quiet, each of these legal shops is paid VAT. So it's not the total amount that gets the law offices, but most of it gets the state. It just seems to me that the interest of such a job is the fact that the state gets a large VAT on every such proposal for the purpose. If it's 200 kuna long, the total citizen must pay with all the expenses of over a thousand kuna. In the structure of this lawyer office they get 300, the country's income remains via VAT. So the same thing could be said when it comes to forced parking tickets or something. I think it's time to talk very seriously about the new model of the executive law. If we don't resolve the executive law and don't solve this institute within the framework of the executive law differently then let's not blame the institutions that use this possibility which is... It's a law of law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7802	Thank you. The reply to the replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7803	Comrade Horvat, I agree with you but took the state 300 kuna or 400, mostly, or other law offices and public records, mostly our citizen is blocked. However, there is a possibility that without these law houses and public notebooks,... So and directly performs and we have 3,000 means employees cca. I don't know the exact number but I know it was the last... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 3048 employees. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, I repeat, there must be a large number of lawyers. Well anyways, so there's another lawyer on HTV who's professional and competent according to that copy paste, what's copied is she, executive demands, that can copy whoever she wants, just name and last name change and address. Therefore, I think that the damage to our citizens has been done long ago, so it has been done long ago, and that this relationship should be changed primarily by public companies to our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7804	Thank you. The next debate is a respected representative of Goran Dodig on behalf of the HSS and HDS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7805	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. As the report was mostly spoken of today and went beyond that report, it was more difficult to go beyond the content of the agenda, especially what it said about 2014. I'm going to apologize for really coming out of this content, talking about the report itself, realizing the fact that we're talking about all this because we're not happy with HRT. And unfortunately this dissatisfaction is not since yesterday so the 2014 report is current and today not because of its technical details that disqualify it in themselves but the fact that HRT viewers are not satisfied but frustrated with what they see on public television. The report itself said that, in a quantitative sense, it could be accepted, in a quantitative sense. However, when a certain quantity reaches a certain level, when quantity can grow and quality so that the programming council that created the programme in some way through the quantitative part has actually determined what kind of television will be, in a qualitative sense. And that's not good. I'll only say one sentence at the beginning, I'll mention the sentences of MP Prgomet who said we shouldn't talk about journalists because journalists are the protection of democracy. First, if only journalists are protecting democracy, then that's it, then we're in big trouble, but I don't mean just our journalism. There is no man or journalist or any other profession that does not include its secular profession, if you want and political, if you want psychological views on a particular problem and now how it will present them, how it will agree, has an important impact on the perception of this content when it is presented to the public. Well, if you want democracy, too. We began to perceive it as a dogma in which everything was permitted and on the other hand nothing was allowed. I didn't mean to show you this, but I'll just read you something that is, if I still have it here. What before Christ about democracy was written by the great Socrates. Don't think I'm troublesome about democracy as a whole but make sure there are no perfect solutions or what's called democracy. So Socrates thus puts it this way: “Democracy will pay because it will try to answer everyone. The poor will wish to have the wealth of the rich and democracy will give it to them. Young people will want to be respected as older, women will want to be like men, foreigners will want natives, democracy will give them that. Thieves and cheaters will want important state functions and democracy will give them that. And when thieves and frauds finally take over because criminals, criminals, are harder for power, there will be worse tyranny than at the time of any monarchy or oligarchy." So courting everyone is a very dangerous story, courting everyone is giving up on moral principles. Advocacy is giving up intellectual sovereignty, courting everyone is something that is not good. Of course democracy doesn't have to be. Democracy rests on moral concepts rather than on the numerical relationship of forces in a particular environment and group. And now we're back on TV. I didn't mean to say I never use this, but this morning while I'm listening here, a reporter writes to me, I see you've been reported for debate. Remember, if you can also set an example of how the Split Centre of Split's duality has been hosted and as an expert in the defence population. They said you were on the right and you weren't suitable for the defense story, etc., etc. That's what the programming council is, and I think it's a key thing that's not good in the past, but it's been repeating it for years, and it's been happening before, and that's why we're coming into this situation today to discuss in this assembly how and in what way public television will make television that will inform viewers objectively, that it won't bring information that is selective because selective information often leads to big misunderstandings, huge delusions, and I would say finally great conflicts. One of these, this model today was seen in the Croatian Parliament, in the Croatian Parliament. I accept that Pupovac is entitled to his opinion, but I also accept the fact that Agent Shucker is asking that when information is in a particular problem to be complete, not to be unilateral. I'm sorry he left, I'm sorry he got hurt, but he has to understand that others were hurt, too. So that model that we only have our truth isn't good even if it was. If we in the Croatian Parliament do not cultivate this possibility of hearing another truth, then we cannot expect neither Croatian broadcasting nor journalists to be objective in reporting. So we have to help with the way we behave. And what today is public television, which should not be, is that it is a creator in many conditions in Croatian society. And the situation in Croatian society is now the society of aggression, the society of intolerance, the society of one truth, the society of injustice, uncertainty and non-solidity. That's the facts. And if we look through personal experiences, we will find positive examples, but personal experiences must not be exclusively a guideline in the evaluation of television. On television, gentlemen, especially on television and some radio shows are old not only by journalists but by choosing a society of aggression program. Look at the selection of films on HRT. Can we be surprised when a dozen days ago we have a report that a girl got in a fight in Varazdin and that others were shooting it around for one boy. That's what we see, that's what they see. It's not fiction, but they see it on TV, you know. And if everything else was okay, that's enough to ask ourselves what we're funding. Educational programs, educational programs there are emissions, but they are negligible compared to the fact that we're talking about, about programs that force inequality, tolerance and aggression. On Croatian television you will find and hear from journalists, and from us parliamentary representatives to condemn someone as a war criminal even though he has not yet been convicted, that they can say whatever they want, that they are doing social suicide through that fact. Because you say that on TV, you said that at one point hundreds of thousands of people. And for that, no one answers on behalf of the so-called so-called. Freedom. It's not freedom, gentlemen! The freedom you have the right to kill someone socially, morally destroying them is not freedom especially without arguments. And that's why this report and the HSS club, HDZ will not support not only for technical reasons but also for essential reasons. We have to bring the story of what television is, the public television we're paying for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7806	Thank you. We have four replicas. The first is Honourable representative Zeljko Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7807	Dear Vice President, I'd just like to add something to what Mr. Dodik was saying. Television is publicly living off a subscription, it's huge money, and when it comes to the financial report there are high invoices for foreign affairs. We mentioned the 58 million kuna fraud that started the investigation four years ago, none of it has anything to do with it. We have a huge 200 million kuna investment taken from Zagreb's Bank of Commerce for some shops, and that alone is not the problem, but what is it paying, what, what is the Croatian tax payer paying? For example, after the fall of the Berlin Wall what was previously learned, what Marxism, Leninism, sociology etc. It's getting insolent. That means why we have to watch, pay the Croatian tax collector so-called The homoopseletus of people who represent a united democratic initiative is also seen on television. It's a failed state. We're looking at former UDBA plans, these members of the French school of sociology and this mental terror, intellectual terror, you have to put an end to it. And I would recommend to some people if you don't fix that picture that you don't pay for it anymore and... Brains and minds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7808	Thank you. Replication response, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7809	No, I don't. I don't have a comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7810	Second Replicated representative Jaroslav Pecnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7811	Mr. Dodig pointed out the problems of journalists and media in democracy and rightly if we remember that Mrs. Gojan, if we are already talking about television, Mrs. Gojan and Mrs. Hlorka Srzić Novak were fired. As much as I disagreed with Mrs. Hloverka Novak Srzić in anything or little, there is really no reason to get fired on television if you do not say what is required or expected or not. You have also set your own example, which is for every conviction, not your example, but how they treated you. But you have also set an example for Mr. Popovec. I'm not Mr. Pupovec's lawyer, nor can I be, nor want to be, but I would only warn of one principled fact. Of course leaving the assembly after he said it might be understood that he was hurt, that he was unhappy, that he was arrogant, that he was ignoring. But I interpret it as a political attitude. It's actually a legitimate political position, that you leave, that you don't want to hear the answers because you think every answer is actually the one that's going to humiliate your position. I would remind you of Sartar who said and non-engagement is the form of engagement.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7812	I'll try to answer that, even though I didn't understand all of you very well. But it's about Mr. Pupovec. I'm sorry he left, I'm sorry, and I'm in favor of Walter's statement that regardless of whether or not I agree with someone, but I'll always bet he has the right to say it. I was just talking here about how I would have to be allowed in the House to depolize with other information. Selective information can lead us in the wrong direction. I'm not talking about whether his faults are right or wrong. I'm not talking about what's true or not, but we need to show the possibility of dialogue here, we need to show. I'm sorry, and I'll do anything to make sure everyone has the right to say what they want within the limits of my options. But we have to fight it right for everything. And everyone has to fight for it. If we leave the situation then we won't, if we don't talk, we won't come to a solution. We all live in our little trench, and that's not good. But we need peace, we need understanding because we're all in a big crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7813	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7814	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, colleague Dodig, you've listed everything that's happened through this past time on HRT as a public service. And it can be added only that there was a clearly visible bias, objectivity, disproportionateness in performances and representation of certain political options and factors, self-will, insults, provokings, all in the past time placed from public service away from objectivity, far from what public service should be, far from what the law prescribes. And I believe that the individual highlights that you have made are only part of a huge failure and a programming council that should have made all of this clear and unequivocally correct or resign collectively if it was those who did not listen. Or ask really before this House to make clear and discuss the moments that have damaged the reputation of HRT and which were primarily to the harm of the Croatian people as well as the state. Many times patriotism replaced something else, many times in the performances there was everything and nothing but what the Croatian people would like to see. These are the features of the past tense. Hopefully it won't happen again.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7815	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7816	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Representative Dodig, first of all, I would not regret why Mr. Pupovac left the assembly, it is his personal decision. It's not the first time and it's not the last time. The topic is the HRT Programme Council and the Council's report and is legitimately the right and majority in the Assembly not to accept and reject this report as it is legitimately entitled to replace the Supervisory Board of Television, legitimately to replace the Director of Television if it has violated the law, and the task of the Programme Council is determined exactly what it, it does not deal with financing, deals with the HRT programme. The truth is, there have been a lot of gaps, but I think not only your debate, but many so far have been too hard on some people who work on HRT because not all 3,000 employees are guilty of irresponsible television management. What needs to be done, and it is primarily television to be commercialized and placed on the market. If the CROAT Journal were one of the only journals in Croatia, it would be the most visible. However, there have been two more TVs that have a much better programme, a much stronger information programme with much fewer people and the term change of the HRT daily from 19.30 to 19.00 hours has changed a lot. However, can our television function with a lot less people? You got it. I am personally against the shutting down of TV centres in Croatia and outside of Croatia in BiH, we should have kept this but maximum professionalise television. Now it's the task of your ruling majority. But to say that in some part of its programme, showing films has significantly affected the increase of violence among young people, it is also doubtful now, probably having that effect on all televisions not only Croatian. But look, young people have access to the Internet, facebooks on every corner, it's a simple influence of time and moment where we live today, a lot has changed.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7817	I'll start at the end. I didn't say how much but that Croatia's radio-television with its programmes on increasing violence has certainly been affected, some systematic research has not been conducted, but I dare say that it is absolutely true in one part. The other thing, you don't regret going out, I'm sorry because it's about, it's not about Pupovac, it's about that because of the different opinions we don't want to hear each other. That's what this is about. If we in the Croatian Parliament are unable to hear someone who is speaking the opposite of us, then I do not think we can send positive messages. It's not a question, it's not just about legislative activities, it's about messages, you know. People don't just judge us by the laws we've passed, judge us by what they see we're doing. We can't ask that other people have empathy with each other and that we here, because of our petty principles and interests, argue to the border that we can't talk. That's what I was talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7818	Thank you. In an individual debate, the first respected representative, Josip Boris, is.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7819	Thank you very much, Vice President. Today we are talking about the report on the work of the CROAT Programme Council for 2014 and we have already participated a lot in these discussions. And it has always been this topic of HRT work in this House that has caused many recommendations, different opinions, conflicts of power and opposition but certainly interesting views of what HRT is and what it should be. The government gave this programme report which says it does not accept it because the achievements are lower than those agreed by the government-Croatian contract in 2014. I'm going to talk about this as an ordinary citizen, a subscriber with the privilege of being able to speak publicly in this House because citizens' remarks on HRT are big, common, everyday, everyone has their favorites, everyone has their own desires but I say there are a number of other TV programs, so if we're not happy with HRT once, then we switch to commercial television, local, we watch what we want to watch and we certainly find some of our favorites there. They pay citizens 80 kn per month, 960 kuna per year and it is not a small amount and surely they want a certain level of quality for that amount and expect it exactly the most from HRT because these others do not pay. Well, they kind of have it anyway, maybe. In order for the show to be quality, we need to look at some reasons why it should and how it should become quality. In order to produce it at all, we need spaces, we need people, we need tools, we need personnel, quality, professional, objective and certainly money. HRT has a billion and 200 million kunas annually available, it has excellent spaces, yet it is television that has been built for decades from year to year. And I don't think there should be a problem in the logistics section. So they have everything they need to have in order to function and provide citizens with quality information, good film, good show, sport and all that we care about if we want to watch the HRT program. But why did the viewers step away from HRT? At least that's what the ratings statistics say. In particular 2013, '14, '15. A year. I think it was noticeable that everyone had turned into one party service colored with one party with selected personnel, as only one political option through different types of emissions. You could have felt it through an information show, through a film you looked at because you were chosen to look at it, a series and especially through political shows where I should have said to face at least a few opinions of the authorities and opposition which are as I said today as soon as the SDP came to power simply disappeared from the public service. The show Open was immediately shut down and you had nowhere to go, say what you think, and it worked for almost a year. The SDP strongly defended the very behavior of HRT, they said it was objective, that it was professional, that it should be so. They're saying something else out of opposition today. But I'm saying, that's what their attitudes are, and that's what we have to accept. Because I remember here, we had, I don't know, current watches like yesterday's term. I personally asked 10 questions here, you could never get out on an information show in a way that looked kind of quality, well processed. Former Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic always seemed superior to everyone and never answered any of the questions he was asked. So one level of objectivity, professionalism completely lost. It didn't matter what I ask you, what you need to answer, but here's to create a picture of great leaders who can't make mistakes, who are perfect. The management of these emissions was, in particular, informative on the edge of sometimes an insult to the opposition. Often, opposition attitudes have been commented as something that is normal in an information show such as Dnevnik, etc. And we just came to the point that HRT obviously didn't become a public service the way we all wanted it or imagined it. What do we have in abundance? Information emissions. The entire 4th channel, we have all day news, information, then three Diaries, Croatian Radio that spins the news every half hour, hour. I don't think there's a country with this many TVs, a radio, and it's just impossible for you as a citizen to go through the day without getting caught by any information at least from the political spectrum, out of life, you just can't go through the bombing. And we became a political nation where my kid in kindergarten already knows who the Prime Minister, the State, the Minister of Transport is, I don't know any resors because it's always spinning. What's gone? The contents we want to watch, the entertainment shows, the documentary shows are gone. The sport has completely disappeared from HRT. Did you, or when you looked at the last match of the Croatian Football League, Croatian Cup as a special sports competition where at least HRT should carry the finals? Nothing. We've been watching 50 minutes or an hour of some reruns done on other commercial televisions. We're looking at handball recently, we're going to go to the Olympics, we're looking for programs where it's even being transmitted. We can barely find it on some commercial TV. Well, I think that, especially for the kids, we have to give the young people more sport because that's what HRT used to be recognizable and observable, and that wasn't the World Cup, I think in 2014, we're watching how much football is big, just that year, but then obviously it's gone, except for the World Cup League a little Wednesday, and that's it, one game a week. Not to talk about other sports. We had says then on the other hand, the only TV sports that SDP has attacked again for some other things where we could only watch that sport. Those who do not want to give or pay an account over 300 kn to watch sports at all on television. You have to pay for an extra thing to watch some show. And what do we have today? Today we have that here the opposition has been telling us for two days insisting that censorship has taken place to shut down the emission-mounted process. I've looked at it, I've looked at two shows, I don't know if we're a depressed society, if we're in bad times, but it's hard to laugh at the kind of satire they're talking about, very hard. And when I compare it to some other shows like a mounted process I watched a long time ago it was Zeljko Pervan's Evening School which was a much better show than that. No one ever asked why she disappeared. Nela Eržišnik or the famous Marica Hrdalo of those times is, for me, the notion of humor and satire, or what we were looking at through that mounted process in those times long ago, which went a long time ago where in a very skillful way, if you wanted to mock yourself with political options or authorities at the time, you did it in a really good way through a joke, through some sketch. This is what the HRT censorship says today, and then we have protests against censorship that the SDP supports and those who conduct censorship and yet not supported by the SDP. They say you've replaced Mirjana Rakic, I'm surprised to say that the lady who can't be said to be not a professional gives herself a role in assessing what hate speech is. I always thought it was done in some court, in front of the judicial authorities even though it's a crime, they say it's hate speech, stop something for a few days. Well, then people who think it's not like that show up. And then we have this story that's obviously well thought out about fascising, staging, etc. And then I watch last night's show. Says Stazic, the appointed issue of the leader. What would you do with that, I don't know what that was like, the HDSSB's black shirts if you were watching. He says, "I would have pissed them off if I had the police, so his was the police at that time." I'm simply saying there are a lot of these events where you could say talk about the program but we can't accept this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7820	Here's a few replicas. First is the distinguished representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7821	An esteemed colleague, your analytical and inspired speech, has brought great attention to colleagues and colleagues from the SDP. As you can see, apart from Mr. Lek, who has been here all along the state very seriously here and there we could see some smiles from fellow Sauche, which means that you tried to satirically present this situation at a public media service although here from this debate is not quite so. The issue of sorting out what should be on the programme is not only a matter of programme content but is the question and skill of managing a large business such as HRT. And I don't know if you know that revenue from marketing advertising on HRT is constantly falling, largely because of what you've pointed out to be no more sports because it's just a sports program that connects most of the marketing advertising space to itself. And there, in recent times, HRT has lost a large part of the potential revenues that could have been invested in the restoration of techniques in the development of the correspondence network, in whatever is deemed necessary in the vision of the development of HRT. When we asked Mr. Radman no answer, we could not get these questions, and it was not clear to anyone why, in this way, the sports programme was pushed towards the fourth channel and why it gave up the media marketing cake that exists on the Croatian market. In order for fun shows to appear at the same time but for which a license is paid, entertainment content shows where you first have to pay for the external productions that have designed this entertainment content and then adjust them and display them on TV. These resources should be explored in detail during the first session debate on HRT's business.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7822	Replica response, distinguished representative Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7823	Thank you very much. Comrade Mesic, I may not have earned the attention of the SDP but I noticed in the last 20 days, 30 days, that my colleague Stazic deserved the attention of HRT, for example. It's like a museum of painted figures and they put it there, you open studio 4 seats, there's a diary, there's news there, there's an open night here, every other, third day and everybody's talking here now it's some HDZ TV and there's all this censorship and everyone's saying whatever they want to say and what everyone said last night is whatever they wanted to say, even though I think it wasn't on some level professionally and objectively. But we'll also have to look at it in the next period and get used to it. I think we need objectivity, and it shouldn't be HDZ or SDP. Let's just get the information right and let everyone get the chance to say what they think they need to say, so that it's done properly so that citizens can get a certain message out of it. Because I didn't get the message of last night's show and when it came to Jasenovac and the three memorials that would have to happen. Whether a solution was to be made, whether it was to offer some new way of commemorating, or just to fill in the program for 45 minutes for someone to talk and say something. I think political emissions should also be part of the solution. However, it is obvious that they are serving for something else and that now a little bit of HRT has been involved in this, in the story that a certain level of Ustashaisation is happening in Croatia, which is unimaginable to me. So the public service agrees and suggests and makes this story go on even though it basically has absolutely no truth. I think you're gonna have to do some things there.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7824	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative Margareta Mađeric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7825	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A fellow representative, Boric, pointed out in his statement that as far as the logistics part is concerned, therefore professional on Croatian television has no problem. And in that part, I agree with you. But then the question arises why domestic production has systematically been suppressed. As counterpart Mesic pointed out, why licensed emissions were being purchased, thus creating a higher financial cost and burdening the Croatian television budget. Foreign productions, for example in the documentary programme, are being hired, and editors in the documentary programme remain uninvolved, but, of course, for their workplace they receive paid all the time. So, engages in a documentary program an external associate while we have editors who are professional, who can do that part of the job well and ultimately who receive pay for it are not hired and have no part of the work that they will do because we have external associates. A lot of me understand the most attention is always given to sports. But on the other hand, it should be pointed out that many programs have been shut down. Some of them are children's, school's, education's, film. So why was the children's and school programmes on Croatian TV canceled? Some are completely abolished, some are created, transformed into certain departments, and sure that quality is not at the level it deserves. And on the other hand, it was multiplying exactly by the management of the chamber, and these production capacities were reduced. And then, of course, Croatian television has had great damages as well as in the next point we will be able to discuss financial business because marketing is falling because there is no quality program and it is very connected to each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7826	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7827	Thank you very much. My colleagues, I don't know why I say they buy sensational shows, an external production when there's a logistics of HRT itself, and it can certainly create at least the same if not greater quality than what it buys. But obviously there's an interest there then. We're not here to investigate what's going on and what's going on. These are the bodies of HRT, so let them decide. You were talking about sports. I remember in 2015, a top athlete, Ivica Kostelic, is forbidden to enter HRT because he wears a sponsor jacket. He wants to promote his film, he owes the Republic of Croatia his sports successes and we come to the fact that this man cannot enter because there are certain rules that someone imposed, and then the rules were interpreted depending on who they were referring to. At one point, the entrances to HRT and some journalists are forbidden, because they don't write how they should write about HRT or anything like that in other parts. I think there are problems, and probably solutions. And what happened thirty days ago, a month ago on top of HRT should have just directed Croatian radio television towards objective professional television that is not favored on the left or on the right. Let them do their job, let them inform Croatian citizens without a lot of words of restraint and without a lot of affection because tomorrow could be like this or the day after tomorrow. Here's what we're looking for, and there are quality people out there who can do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7828	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7829	Thank you very much. Well, before I begin to replicate what you said to my colleague, Boric, he saw the report and why his colleague Pupovac left the assembly. All the headlines, the President of the Parliament tried to censor Mr. Pupovac and he therefore left the assembly. Here it is, and we all saw what happened here. But to get back to what I'm obviously some kind of athlete's envoy here so I can talk about what you were saying about sports at HRT. Look, someone's smart who obviously knows a lot about sports transferred practically all the domestic leagues what he managed to get. We basketball players are so happy that the leagues of our championship are being broadcast on the fourth program, not on the second, actually being broadcast at all on television, but we're not happy that it's on the fourth, not on the second. You know why? Because there can be no commercials on the fourth program, except for what's in the hall. But there can't be any commercials. While on another program, one champions' league game and one European cup game are being broadcast, because you can have comfortable commercials there. Now tell me who will sponsor the first Croatian basketball league or the first Croatian handball league if there are no commercials during this broadcast? Well, there's a sport out there on such a high level with a lot of viewers exclusively that it's come to the edge of business and sports. So, in sports, the state invests in youth sports, but then it comes to some top-notch sport where many pay to watch it. But only on HRT is not such a policy. Because look, why is the transfer to the Arena game of the European League champions? Well, because some telecom companies are sponsors of the league, then they have to carry them. But at the same time which telecom company in Croatia that has about 2 billion revenues is sponsoring any sport in the Republic of Croatia? They say we pay your taxes and then sponsor it. But that's why the Max TV tax and similar cable TV pay us a lot of money. And it's in agreement with HRT because we wouldn't all take MAX TV if HRT had high-quality sports reviews and other shows. And that's a fact and that's the truth. One more sentence, please, Mr. Vice President. In Croatia, income taxes are collected annually and cut slightly more than 13 billion kuna. And a billion and 300 thousand kuna is collected from a TV subscription. Well, then, smart enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7830	Thank you. The next replica is an esteemed representative, I apologize, a response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7831	Thank you very much. We don't know why Pupovac came out and the censorship certainly wasn't a word. He spoke nicely for 10 minutes, said everything he wanted and still waved fingers as usual, doctored, said little and some heavy words. He even said this wasn't in line with the Constitution, so he said there was no explanation for this, that he didn't know why he didn't want this to be accepted. No one told him nothing, at least the one I sat here had that experience. Then at one point he concluded that obviously something wasn't the way he wanted it, and it's like with little kids if you take his toy and if he really wants her to get angry and start crying, a fellow Pupovac came out. Because it is also a way to make views in the Croatian Parliament. He's right about that, too. As far as sports go, that's what's wrong with HRT. I think no one happier than me that one part of sports, especially football, basketball, water polo, handballs, means team sports in which Croatia is a power to say so in world and European terms that motivates a large number of children to deal with such sports to finally return to the HRT programme because they are not exactly that big money that could not be paid to say such a program appears on HRT. But of course, those who take care of that HRT must find the best way to make it happen. And then probably sponsors will show up, and probably opportunities to earn more than they're now making from marketing.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7832	Thank you. The next replica, the distinguished representative of Tomislav Sauch.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7833	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's my colleague, Boric, I have to admit that as far as sports are concerned, I agree with you, although I'm not some bit of a bit of a fan of sports on a couple of occasions I've found myself in a situation that I've been spinning all over all the channels and I've been looking for some sort of football game transfer, and I couldn't figure out logically how it was that HRT couldn't transmit I don't know the Dinamo-Hyduk game or any other game of the 1st football league, but okay, okay. I'm saying, that was kind of their logic that I don't personally understand. As for your perception of HRT's bias for the past four years, I have to be so comforted that it's a matter of perception. Here's how if we were asked those four years too, we weren't completely satisfied with the perception of how HRT treated the news and how he treated the government at the time. As far as the currents that you're convinced are actually the fruit of a good directorate of HRT are concerned, they're not. This was about a very high-quality prime minister and a bad opposition at the time. Now you're the government, we're the opposition, you have a vice-premire of your champion who will probably be getting better and better every day with a little help from HRT that you're convinced that in the beginning, of course, it must be the help of the HRT. Perhaps Mr. Karamarko will become just as good by the end of his term, and so will we, even though it would surprise me. As for Mrs. Rakic, I do not know what role the Council for Electronic Media should play but rather to control exactly the hate speech in public space not the electronic media. And for the end, laughter is not a sin. If you were able to understand the humor of the "Mount Process" you would see that laughter is not a sin and you would see that in fact their kind of humor is such that with a government like this they would quickly lose their material and fall off on their own. So you shouldn't have moved them from the HRT, believe me, they'd have moved themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7834	Replica response, distinguished representative Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7835	That's how fellow Saucha, a high-quality prime minister, went into opposition, and an unquality opposition came to power. It doesn't make sense, but that's what it looks like. But well, that's what it feels like. I was talking when I was talking in my current class about the content part. We really didn't get an answer here as many questions as we did, but it was mostly the highlight of some kind of policy that didn't give birth to anything good but division in society and problems with so many insults, MPs and adjectives as I said it yesterday. But, well, everyone has the right to a perception like you do. As for taking it off the program of this satirical show we did not take it off here from the Croatian Parliament, a new V.d. came. Director, they've evaluated it and he said he's taking it off because it's if I wrote it right because they're raising the level of objectivity. Here, that's the Director's explanation. I have nothing more to add. But that there was censorship and that it was going towards protecting the SDP and its power that was obvious to us here in the Parliament. I remember a terrible statement by my colleague Stazic as vice president of the Parliament here in the afternoon when the HDZ club sought a break precisely because of that statement. He justified the crimes of communism on the Gol island in a strange sentence, says that if there were no Google of the island the entire Yugoslavia would have been the Goli Island. So it was allowed there to kill people, to close, to re-raise so that it wouldn't happen in the entire Yugoslavia. That's the kind of man that's left the vice president all the way and now he's giving us moral lessons about what we all need to do. No media reported it, no one condemned it. And today we're going back 30 years, 20 years ago, taking out one sentence, one picture to deal with people who are not politically inclined to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7836	The last replica of the esteemed representative Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7837	My colleague Boric, whenever the government changed, unfortunately over the last 25 years those who came to power first was an imperative to win the HRT. And today that's the case, and today you're doing it. So the first thing you managed to organize after you had settled here from the hills down the government you organized a nation event to bring down the President of the Council for Electronic Media. After that, you set out to win the HRT. You acted the same way that she did before you were in power. So their imperative was then to win the HRT. So there is a sign of equality between you today in power and a sign of equality compared to those who came down from power after these last local elections. It's nothing weird, unfortunately it's been going on for 25 years. HRT will be public, professional, independent and therefore deeply, deeply believed and profitable only when these things do not happen after the parliamentary elections have been held and when the ruling garneries do not reduce HRT leadership. You do what they did yesterday and they'll do it tomorrow, unfortunately when you fall out of power. I resent that you organized the event of the people and brought down Mrs Mirjana Rakic, humiliated her, insulted her, who worked on HRT for 40 years, who during the Homeland War had the support of the first Croatian president, Dr. Franje Tudjman, led the foreign policy portfolio and never once in her own word, questioned in part Croatian independence and Croatian sovereignty and the fair fight of the Croatian people for their own state. What you've done now, I think you've made a mistake. You shouldn't have done that, and you shouldn't have done this to a professional journalist who's been doing her entire working life to humiliate that job, an objective journalist, and you should have taken her off the throne of the Electronic Media Council. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7838	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7839	Thank you very much. My colleague Glavas, the first claim that we organized a group of people to bring down the Council for Electronic Media, nor did I participate, nor did I organize. It is something that is behind us and Mrs. Rakic has resigned herself for her own reasons. As for the Law on HRT, in 2010, the consensus, it was amended, it meant that when the majority's decision was amended, I know how it was voted here, they proposed themselves, they voted, they chose themselves, they were your colleagues from the HDZB from the previous call here. In the same way they almost acted like us, we got out of I mean the assembly then. He is now named V.D. Director under the current law that has passed the SDP and I believe that the shifts are best possible no matter how someone here today says different perceptions. And I think if there's been a mistake somewhere, it's time to learn something and not act like it. And I'm saying, the charges can be from different sides to all of us, each in their own way.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7840	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Ivan Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7841	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. HRT is an important topic and, of course, everyone should look back on it. I'm going to ask one question in terms of chicken or egg at the beginning of my exposure. So is any party important because it's a lot on television or is it a lot on TV because it's important? A very important question that I've asked before and I've answered and the answer is if you're not on TV, you don't exist, period. As far as HRT is concerned, it is in the theory of the legal public but in practice it is very state-owned. I agree with colleagues who said that how to come which government puts its people in that way. The work of HRT is unfortunately not commendable. One of the consequences of the funding model that we have is that we have 100 grand per year. I can say something I've probably never said to the public before that I've had cases in my practice, in my activism that people at the auction have lost homes, and the only home means, because of the subscription. That's why I advocate, as my colleague Kajtazi said, and mentioned some countries that have another model of funding, to completely abolish the HRT subscription, so that we all find together another model so that no space can be opened so that some law offices earn 10 times more than the amount of the implementation itself. As far as the political programme is concerned, he cannot be said to be in the service of the public. First of all, it is in the service of the current government and comes down to the pro-government propaganda of whatever government it is, not information and reporting. The goal is clear, to create a nation of zombies, not conscientious people. This great brainwashing is spent annually on 1.38 billion kuna, which is a disgrace to a society where a million and a half citizens do not have enough to meet basic needs. The state of the soup kitchen, bottle collectors, unemployed and completed citizens on state television are very rare and below all measures to influence public opinion so much that things are obviously changing. If there's no bottle-gatherer television for a large number of citizens, there's not even real. In this virtually better-stimulated reality, everything is fine, Croatia is growing, reforms are being implemented, people are happy and there are no problems. As for censorship, I'm going to set a personal example, not because I think I'm so important, but because I know him best and because I don't want it to happen to anyone again. Namely, before the elections, just before the election silence was to be held last political show Sunday in two and HRT editor and director Aleksandar Stankovic on his facebook page, i.e. On Sunday, on two, he posted a video asking questions, and so he publicly asks viewers, filmed himself, whom would you like to see in the last show before the 2015 parliamentary elections? Noting that he will host whoever has the most suggestions or likes. The competition is open, it took me a day, a day and something. In the end there were some 800 comments, of these Circium 800 if I remember well some 500-600 was for one person, by chance it was me, some 200-thin was for Boza Petrova and some other candidates were also mentioned there. What does the editor of that facebook page do? So what he spent time recording and calling the citizens after the day of giving up and calling God Petrova. I don't have much to add. So we have to be Bozo Petrov at all costs, if they compete well if then without a competition it has to be because she pushed such an agenda before the elections. I don't have to say today that I'm being tried for expressing my dissatisfaction that I've been cancelled from dealings with so embarrassingly. That's why I have to go to court today, but it doesn't matter. It's obviously my fault I said the injustice was done. Since the last elections, no one from the Living Wall has been on HRT unless 4 programs and Croatian radio are counted, no one has been in the Dnevnik, no one has been in the Open, no one has been at the end of any other show. I wonder why it's a standard run by public television, is it possible that for the first time in history it wasn't so important to face up to the election? During the presidential election, I went through six confrontations of which two on HRT. I'm the only one who's been through all the confrontations, and it's profoundly affected the election score, and everybody knows that, and then no one can say that television is irrelevant. How many meetings were held for parliamentary elections if we do not consider the one on the New TV at noon that was transmitted to the Internet zero and that was not really God-knows-what, at noon on a working day or Saturday watching the broadcast via the Internet. Tragedy, tragedy for Croatian democracy, tragedy because there is no public confrontation, no conflict of ideas, no representation of candidate programmes, but one targeted agenda. In the end, the Ethics Commission of the DIP also said that it would have a significant impact on the election outcome. As far as the subscription is concerned, I'm going to go back a little bit to that question, and of course it's being charged by the incasators where at least they haven't yet listed a TV camera, they're breaking into apartments and houses, they're breaking private property, they're using citizens' ignorance, which our older citizens, the pensioners who lived in the former state, and they're not used to some of the country's regulations being set up to protect their private property. Unfortunately, many people do not know, so they break into their homes through their will. Will tomorrow's cell phone owners turn up to charge them a TV subscription if we know they're even charged for owning a laptop? In view of all of this, this is not the first debate on HRT, I cannot threaten this report because my conscience does not allow it, and I would also like to say that HRT, therefore in its programmes, avoids a full public debate on the abolition of the RTV subscription even though a large number of citizens believe that it is a robbery effort and is seeking a second model of financing. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7842	Thank you. Now, since it's 13.30, then we're going to have these replicas, we have two replicas, and then we're going to be back at 3:00. Break till 3:00. It's 13:30. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] The first replica is Honorable representative Zeljko Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7844	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, so if it's HTV public television, I think it's this one, that it should also be public how money is spent, that we know what editors who are still there and from the last government are getting. And I think we should conduct a search not only of HTV's finances but of the Council for Electronic Media, because there's a conflict of interest in how that money is spent. In this report we see at least three loans received, 40 million kuna, 100 million kuna from the Split Bank, 200 million kuna, etc. And let's see here if there's anything that's fake, which isn't right and it needs to be searched. That's the first thing. The second is content. We've already talked about this and I think that the Croatian tax collector who pays it shouldn't pay that... about why they weren't brought back names. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So an example of Nada Pracacin, Helena Krmpotić and Ozana Bašić that were removed there. And at the same time we're watching... Like Hrvoje Zovko making movies about the Storm, let's say General Gotovina who are completely historically unfounded. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For example, it is an insult to the victims of communism, every Sunday, at the last week of the 11 months, that is to say. The holodomor where Stalin killed from four and a half to seven million just Ukrainians, a holodomort. And what are we looking at? We watch Russian propaganda films from the 1930s where happy peasants dance and eat pork etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7845	Thank you. Second replica, the esteemed representative of Stipe Petrina.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7846	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My replica refers to what my colleague Sincic found that every political option that comes to political winds, i.e. the elections first, wants to take control of Croatian Radio Television as the strongest media in Croatia. But it's nothing new. The fact is that Croatian television is according to its... and public media owned by the state and should be in public function. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But apparently, the political winners of the elections both in agreement with Mr. Glavas, who pointed out all 25 years in the first place, sought to turn public television, the public media space into the political propaganda of a political option that is at that moment the strongest in the Republic of Croatia. And based on that, and we all agree that this should not be an opinion alone that the public service that is for the benefit of all citizens should be done by truly the best professionals regardless of political vote, regardless of political commitment, the worldview, regardless of the parties. So I think that this should be established by law stronger and tighter. But one objection to Mr. Sincic's exposure refers to it. And he resents it too, and all of us who don't belong to an extremely left or right block all resent it. But did you see in that exhibit it's said to me from that party, specifically the Living Wall, we didn't get an adequate space. What does that lead us to? Even if those other options were to come, they would treat the public media equally, which I find very unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7847	Thank you. The next individual debate is the distinguished representative of Ladislav Ilčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7848	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. First of all, I'd like to say as an HRT employee for more than 20 years that I'm asking you all to speak very carefully of HRT, there about these 3,000 employees. There are a lot of people who do their job very well and really need to speak carefully. Let's say that in our musical production, about 160 employees really know exactly who has an appointment, who when they're practicing, when they're rehearsals. You know exactly what's in the job description and it's very valuable. And besides, it's very hard to get to that job. So, for us to audition for, say, one place violinist comes for 20 candidates and it is not easy to come and really professionally and very well does a very important job for Croatian culture because the specificity of our music production is to perform Croatian composers and create our archives, etc. Besides, when it comes to too many employees, I'll say right away that it's a double sword. You know us when he goes, say, the first oboist retired and you can't hire anyone else you can't play the symphony without the first oboe, you understand. So I'm only appealing to a very careful speech about HRT so that we don't turn around like this and get collaterally hurt by some people who really don't deserve it. And now on the subject, and this is the Programme Council and the 2014 Report. I liked yesterday when Mr. Lovrinović spoke about factoring and public work and for MPs who were not so directed at the beginning defined what he was factoring and what they were doing. Personally, it helped me. So now I'm going to be taught this example first just to say what it is, in fact, the HRT Program Council. According to the HRT Act, it represents and protects the public's interest by carrying out monitoring the programme. So that's fundamental. They actually represent the public. Now how successful are they in their legal task? First, let's analyze what this program is like. I'm going to give one personal example again, not because I would do it to someone else like Mr. Petrina said, but because I think it's absolutely unacceptable on one public television. In particular, it's a health care debate. They ask me for a statement, I take the recommended literature that Minister Jovanovic recommended in the programme and writes the recommended literature. I read about the statement of two extracts where it's propagated I don't know paedophile, pornography, so really two terrible quotes and I say parents won't let that happen. And I'm still proud of myself how I managed to make a short statement of 20 seconds, they won't be able to cut me up when I watch the journal at night, going to the journal one teacher in the class talking to kids about puberty and squires and talking they talk and end it and my parents won't let that happen. You understand? It's like I'm against being talked about puberty and apron. And it was evident from my statement that it really wasn't too long that I was against promoting pornography and pedophilia. You understand? So I'm saying yes, that's just one example. HRT was simply in its action a programming team led that they were masters in how those who criticize SDP politics make them stupid. I can't say another message, another word. I'm sorry for the rudeness or so. Now, what could the programming council have done about it? So that the programming council doesn't turn out to be wrong about everything, because it's not wrong for everything, so it's the public perception that the program board is determining the program, no. So, Mr. Radman appoints editors of the program under the HRT Act. So he sets up people who then put other people on certain tasks and determine jobs and is primarily his ingenuity. They, therefore, the programme council, as the law says they should protect our interest, represent the public. How did they do that? I'll say, I'll agree with Mr. Hajdukovic, who is now gone, that they've partly done well. Here's an example of the termination of correspondence. So, I'm talking about the record that's part of this session report held on 16 February, and now it's all about which correspondence has been reduced. So it's said that the number of journalists has been reduced. So there were 13 employees working in Mostar, and we reduced them to 2. I believe that, sir, you will further explain how important it is when you live in an environment where, say, Serbian television, Serbian journalists have about 30 in Bosnia. You have about 50 employees on the Muslim side of Turkish television. And now we take it to 2 to defend the Croatian component, to represent the Croatian component in BiH. Then we talk about the abolition of small correspondence in Croatia where we came from 51 employees to 22. It has already been said how much we should be careful that HRT lives in interaction with its citizens throughout Croatia, about decentralisation someone has spoken well before. So these moves, there I disagree with Mr. Hajdukovic because he said they have no connection so these are business moves. What kind of business?- I'm sorry. Well, your program depends on money. If you end the money somewhere, if you stop the correspondence, that's it. And reduce the press then, of course, that the program will be bad. And now why am I saying this about the program council? Because after that, the programme council asked Mr. Radman for further clarifications and analysis. I've studied all the records by the end of the year, none of that. So they're looking, he's not, he's got a cat. Or let's say another example, let's say where Mr. Jozo Barisic criticises the very work, well come on, first I'll read the next one. So Nina Obuljen Koržinek reiterated that the reports of the Commissioner for Consumer Services, which means that those who receive the observations in which the amount of criticism is repeated and, in the opinion of the Council, the reasoned remarks deserve the attention of the councils and the people in charge of the programme. He said the council has not received feedback so far, but it is usually said that certain remarks, praises or criticisms have been forwarded, but the council has no idea even if it is a large number of objections, and even when they coincide with the council's views that they are always taken into consideration. In other words, they criticize it, someone forwards it somewhere, no one cares about it, etc. Or let's say when Jozo Barisic criticised the central information emissions, whether there will be any shifts in content, whether people who meet all the necessary criteria needed to appear on the Dnevnik screen will ever be selected on this show. Mrs. Nina Obulen is looking for an analysis when Dnevnik 3 went off with the idea now everyone's going to watch the news on the 4th program. She's looking for an analysis of whether it really happened. No analysis, no one says, we just don't have Journal 3. So to a certain extent, this was doing its job. But clearly said Mr. Mikulic, they had the opportunity to write written objections that did not work. They may have been unable to accept, positively not to show themselves about the annual plan and the programme the principal director gave them. Was it some kind of political pressure, was it a demoted approach? For when you have an associate, someone who does not listen to you, who listens to you and says, "I will answer you, and will not answer you, and then you are demoted." Look, we're like Parliament here to say no. Let's say that such a programme and such a programme policy can be guided on television. As for these objections, I'll say you had 7987 citizens reacting to the non-publishment of Mate Uzinić's speech in Vukovar on 18.11.2014. When, as much as there were objections to Elizabeth Gojan for the transfer of inauguration, remember how it was really beneath every criticism. Remember the enthusiasm of a liberating verdict to the generals and on the other hand on TV, on HTV was like a nightmare, like a funeral atmosphere, like they were all sad. You understand? We simply need to make sure that our Programme Council really presents the public that, we have a relationship between the Director-General and the Programme Council such that this programme council can really influence the programme itself and that it is objective. Other things have been mentioned, such as switching sports from second to fourth program, where approximately 15 million kunas were lost or the transfer of the Dnevnik to 7, remember until the entire seven to eight hours failed to be used and 4 minutes for advertising, which is another 15 million kuna, so in prime time. So these are serious business shortcomings that I believe tomorrow will be the case. But they're also connected to the software section. So here's why I can't accept this report from the Programme Council, I'm not going in a sense that nothing's wrong, and the Program Council was partly doing its job, but it didn't do the job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7849	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Stipe Petrina.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7850	I don't agree so much as you say in advance, or you're saying back what's special not when they've been acquittal to the generals, I absolutely disagree with that. The more I know that this power has passed, the more I am not her lawyer, far from it, God forbid, but I know what it has done and what way it has done for the Generals of The Hague. So if you're also filling that with the former structure in power that it affected HRT's editorial policy, then I don't think it stands. That's one thing. The second thing you're saying is that you've made your statement in about 20 seconds about pedophilia and some more of those details that aren't, but you need to know that your statement about masturbating and that you've never been masturbating in your life. So I don't understand why you have two criteria for a relationship to one structure that's on HRT and another that's possible now. And one question for you. Do you think the current set that came with Mr. Siniš Kovacevic will have a different policy of HRT's work and that perhaps, I suppose, will favour a political option that you don't belong to. And that's the question. When I was talking in my previous replica. If something is a public service, the public service must be in the interest of all together no matter which political option you belong to, no matter what political worldview you belong to.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7851	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Ladislav Ilčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7852	First of all, I didn't imply that the past government affected, when it ruled against such an HRT reaction. I said HRT reacted that way. He thinks there's a record. So HRT reacted that way. And I'm telling you that the atmosphere on HRT was, by all accounts, significantly different from the atmosphere that was in Ban Josip Jelačić Square. And I say this is public. We don't have two public. The public in Ban Jelačić Square where it comes I don't know 100 thousand people, truly happy and on the other hand on the HRT funeral atmosphere. So that's the difference. I just said that, I didn't imply anything. Another thing, when I set this example of pornography, paedophile. Pedophilia, first of all, is not a commitment, paedophilia is prohibited by law. So that's what we're talking about, that such a promotion doesn't make sense. When I talked about media reporting, I spoke as an example, not so that I would enter into the subject of paedophile or pornography, but to show that they completely perverted the meaning and completely falsely informed what I said. Please don't go into things like personal commitment and sex life and don't say it in this assembly. It's not a place because each of us has his own private life and decides how he'll live, so I find it even rude. And that if someone mentions or doesn't mention it, if they don't mention thank God they don't mention it because he's rude. And the third thing, you still said about it, whether I think now the gentleman is not Kovacevic, but Kovacic, Sinisa Kovacic, that he will now prefer these or those. What I stand for is exactly what you said, so I have to have a public television that works by business rules and I don't know who I've been replicating before when he suggested there isn't, yeah Mr. Pecnik that there are no professional rules but if these in power should tend for these and when others are in power for others. So in that I fully agree with you that you should be impartial.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7853	Thank you. The next debate is distinguished MP Margareta Mađeric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7854	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Namely, the report we are discussing today from 2014 marks the beginning of the year in which the systematic destruction of HRT started. We heard many arguments today during the debate and heard but also representatives and representatives of HDZ in the previous term of the Croatian Parliament, but unfortunately because of the boast of the then director but also the political situation and the majority that was in the Croatian Parliament, everything that was appealed and pointed out did not come to the ears where it should and did not react properly. The report in question, which we are discussing today, states that HRT has largely fulfilled obligations under the Croatian contract and the Croatian Government. However, lower programme commitments than those undertaken by the contract are visible. The Programme Council did not show in this report any reasonable reasons for decommissioning from programme content ratios. In that report, the User Service Commissioner states that during the reporting period, he made a total of 1411 contacts with a telephone, fax or e-mail to users related to software content from which complaints, criticisms and remarks were made in 439 contacts and only 142 contacts were commended. That actually tells us all about the quality of the program and the unprofessionalism that reigned on HRT. Of that number, the most criticism went precisely to the editorial concept of particularly informative content and what we believe we will agree with but especially the viewers and viewers of the HRT give the program. The information program was not objective. Therefore, even today's MPs will certainly not interfere with the editorial policy of Croatian television particularly of the information programme, but the only thing we are looking for, what we expect, is the objectivity of reporting. And what has been so far has been unobstructed, incomplete, incorrect, unbiased and sensational access to information and, as fellow MPs have stated, by abolishing certain political information emissions such as the Open was conducted directly on the hand of the ruling structure and, of course, the largest party in that ruling structure, the SDP. Despite numerous objections to the quality of software content and the professionality of HRT work, the programme council did not show the same in this report even though it was their legal obligation or warned the Croatian leadership of the derogations in the programme contractual commitments. The major criticisms are also addressed for changing the term of the central diary on the first programme from 19.30 to 19.00 hours without having heard the basic and concrete programming analyses that were quickly achieved, and I believe that tomorrow when we discuss and the financial report we will have more information on what this meant for financial business and how much millions of kuna were lost from marketing that could have been made available in this reception. As I referred to one of the replicas, I think it is unacceptable to remove news from HTV 1 in sign language that was held at 10 and at 14 o'clock, they switched to HRT4 that wanted to be created as some news channel while there was no coverage throughout the Republic of Croatia. Which is different than censorship. So, when MPs and SDP advocates debate today about fear, censorship, everything that happens on HRT, I would like to point out very much here that there have been illegal cancellations, that everything that happened during Director Radman and before that Novokmeta has been replaced practically overnight by the illegal resignation received editor and journalist Karolin Vidovic Kristo for freedom of speech, I repeat freedom of speech. And today, here is the question of censorship. The Radman decision to fire the esteemed journalist was declared illegal by the Municipal Court and returned to her old job. So now the question is who responded from SDP when such an illegal decision was declared by the Municipal Court and by returning the journalist to the workplace who responded and who said there was censorship at the time. But not that, but the fear of freedom of speech and opinion during Radman, who was at the head of Croatian television. Also, the same director ignored the Croatian Parliament every time it sought some information on which parliamentary deputies had the right to obtain that information, it was denied. One example is also the conclusion of the March 2015 Croatian Parliament regarding the salaries of leading people on HRT. The aim of this conclusion was not to exorcise who has the pay, but, among other things, to clean up what is done on Croatian television, how some editors and journalists are rewarded, among other things objectively, here in the Croatian Parliament to discuss it. The same director who, together with Novokmet, replaced more than 40 editors, who gave three cancellations to the directors only because he did not report from his point of view objectively Goran Radman refused to give the Croatian Parliament, the highest body in the Republic of Croatia an insight, a full financial report with data on salaries on Croatian television as well as complete data on his salary and salaries of the editors-general, although he was obliged to do so since his salary was also financed from the state budget by taxpayers' money and from the subscription paid by citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I was not a representative at the Croatian Parliament at the time, there were my colleagues and colleagues, so I wonder if Mr. Stazić then reacted and insisted that the director of Croatian television be paid to be public, to subscribe to the representatives and see if it was censorship, what was happening and how it was managed by Croatian television. I also want to point out here in my debate the inadmissible phenomena that were, and that is not a concern for Croats outside the country especially for Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Croatia's decision on the rationalisation of business that abolished 11 Croatian correspondence actually ceased to serve as a public service because numerous local communities were marginalized by the shutting down of these correspondence and were their world. So for local units, units of local self-government place where they will place information that happens in their cities and municipalities. I would also like to point out here that by abolishing correspondence in Sarajevo and Mostar, the reasons for this were alleged savings, for example correspondence in Sarajevo as I did in previous replicas, in fact, used space in BiH's television building. In fact, nothing is more than a simple censorship, not caring for Croats outside our country, not caring for Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we should know that another Croatia lives outside Croatia. So we have as many Croats out there as we have in our homeland. The Croatian TV programme is often their only contact with the Homeland, and what offends them most is the abolition of the programme. It's final. We can discuss for a long time how and how editorial policy was conducted and related to software content. I believe Mr Jose Barisic's announcement will be V.D. Director of the programme, which he announced several days ago for a daily newspaper, that an internal audit of the projects carried out in the term of the former Director-General is under way Gordan Radman is indeed analyzed and that things finally come out, so that MPs and MPs get the information they've been looking for for years and they haven't been allowed here because of Gordan Radman's censorship. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7855	We have two replicas. Andrija Mikulić's first representative is the Honorable representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7856	Dear colleague Majerić absolutely agrees with what you said, so only once again when you talk about the information program of Croatian Radio Television will I say and appeal to that statement by the distinguished professor. All these technological work, financial and traditional resources are not enough to produce not only the most visible but even the politely viewed information programme, kindly viewed, not the most visible. Let's not talk about what's going on with these other TVs and ratings. That's what I said earlier in the discussion. But it's not even weird, and we don't have to be surprised when the then director announced in his work and management program that he was chosen, and then most of who was chosen him, so I'm going to quote. Discontinity and neglect of a positive professional tradition is evident, which was especially marked by Croatian television at the end of the 1960s and 1970s. It seems to me that this gentleman was elected in 2012. He was referring to some tradition in the 1960s and '70s. Now it's clear to everyone why this nostalgia was behind whatever it was on HRT. She obviously just called herself that, but she wasn't. Censura, what could be a worse form of censorship when you abolish the representation of the Croatian people in neighbouring BiH? So you don't belong or you don't want to belong. So that's something that's too scary. Not to talk about these layoffs, not to say it again. But what is most tragic is that the then director did not respect the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, on his explicit request he did not supply those documents which he was obliged to deliver.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7857	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7858	Yes, I answered Mr. Vice President for a reply to MP Mikulic's reply. You're absolutely right. And why did he behave like that, and why was he blasphemous? Because it was made possible by the president of the SDP. I think there's a connection to their behavior, and he finds a patch. But about what you said in '69, '70. Well, I'm not surprised. Mr. Radman acted just like that at the time, and he was the head of HTV at the time. And the proof of that is that he prepared a rule that the HND called spying on employees. Namely, the Director-General planned to adopt a regulation to control e-mails, textes and interviews by employees via official phones and through official email addresses. So what else do you say? He apparently felt and thought that he was living in another time, and the saddest thing was that he was actually doing it and that the former government had made it possible for him to do it. And what was not the Croatian Parliament as the highest body in the Republic of Croatia had the instruments to put an end to it and to ask it to subscribe all the information sought by MPs and MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7859	Another replica, the esteemed representative Zeljko Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7860	The Honorable President of the Parliament was once told that having lies is a bigger lie than autobiography. I'd say there may be lies, bigger lies and these financial reports. This can't possibly be accepted here because we don't know exactly, we don't have an accurate insight into where these funds and hundreds of millions of kuna loans are spent, we don't know what editors are getting. What was spent on special equipment? Is the invoice bloated, etc. But one other thing I'd say that what we got for that price is totally unacceptable. That TV created... And privileged liars like Dennis Latin, she ran a total media blockade. [[You don't understand.]] So what's he hiding? He hides, protects the largest criminal organization in the history of this part of Europe, the Communist party of Yugoslavia and its version. For example, last year, Stjepan Hršak, the head of the Krapina OZNA, who was responsible for the death of maybe 20 friars, died alone. You have 130 mass graves in Macele, it's the present not the past. No news came through. That's how it happens all the time. The key question never retreats on that television, for example Return of Croatian property. A minority has requested a return of their property recently. What about Croatian property? Millions of acres of land, houses, fairies and it's... Not only Zagreb, but also the rest of Croatia. [[You don't understand.]] 600 mass graves in Slovenia, 900 mass graves here victims of communism etc. And that's for me, so I would never sign the approval of this financial report. For censorship... I don't know who normal in the country... [[You don't understand.]] put in ex-sportsmen,... [[You don't understand.]] etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7861	Thank you. The next debate is the distinguished representative Josip Djakic. ... Okay, the reply to the replica is the distinguished representative Margareta Mađerić. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7862	Like this, very short. Dear Representative Glasovic touched the financial report, I believe we will discuss the financial report tomorrow. But the data that licensed emissions were being purchased, and domestic production was suppressed, that almost all programs were abolished, such as school, education, film and turned into production departments or completely disappeared. Not to mention the sport that was almost unrepresented in the HRT programmes shows that neither in the good economy nor in general that it was not meant to finance on HRT but was treated and treated in a non-transparent, non-intentional, arrogant and wasteful manner by all taxpayers.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7863	Thank you. The next debate is distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7864	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So here is what to say more about the Report of the Croatian Programme Council in which everything has actually been said already through these discussions, but it is a duty to remind you that from everything visible the programme council has not carried out its task and in the essential segments it has been incomplete, incomplete and incorrectly acting. As a result, the Council did not carry out its task even though it was as a task as set out in Article 26. HRT law. The Programme Council was to monitor the implementation of the programming principles, the obligations laid down by law and contract referred to in Article 13 of the Law and, in the event of their non-compliance, to notify the Director of the HRT and the editor-in-chiefs and alerts to the Supervisory Board. That from the text we received and saw is absolutely invisible. No such written warnings, no such claims. And together with the editor-in-chief and editors of HRT, they designed the program and allowed the program to be tailored as they wanted. The one who steals and the one who holds his lottery is the same. Today it's interesting that there are no comrades who would defend their comrades in distress even though the proverb is the occurrence of condemnation and the other one to save them. There's no other Mesha, no other Pupovian, all of them probably split up into the woods so they wouldn't listen to everything they needed to hear. And they need to hear that the Law on HRTs that were so magnificent, that they talked about so much. Well, you guys that you're throwing today probably have nothing to say to defend your friend Radman. You forgot that Article 6 of the implementation of the programme principles of HRT, which states that HRT is obliged to promote national interests, to endure, to contribute to respect and promote fundamental human rights and freedoms, patriotism, tolerance, understanding, respect for the diversity of democratic values, the institutions of civil society, and the promotion of culture and public dialogue. If we were to talk about the culture of public dialogue, then today I can't really say that colleagues who always ask for public dialogue to be open and clear, that we respect each other today don't really do it. Respecting the privacy, dignity, reputation and honor of man and the fundamental rights and freedoms of others, especially children and young people, as well as older and powerless persons, is also what the article 6 states. The law on HRT says it's their duty. And Article 7 also states that HRT's duty is to keep the public informed in good time about the facts and phenomena in the country and abroad. We can tell everything about everything that's happened in previous times and events, editing and editorial policy, but lately since the new law was passed, we can say that all of this is missing. The impartiality and privacy and dignity and the reputation and honor of this public service that all Croatian peoples, millions and 300 thousand subscribers pay. And that is what is sad about which today those who ruled and decided, who made most of them keep silent as water. There's no word. Of the 100 votes you hear, it's not. Why is that? So silence is a confession, a confirmation that we did it, and now we're gonna keep our mouths shut. What's past is no longer worth it. I challenge you, answer your word, sign in, replicate, prove it, prove it's not like that. Attack! What are you guys talking about? Why don't you keep your mouth shut? Say it! Tell me where your courage, your resolve, your publicity, your availability. Where are your fundamental freedoms and your rights? Why are you silent today? You have no formula, no solutions to this enigma. There's a program council that didn't do its own law. Why aren't you criticizing him? Why don't you tell me what they did? Sleeping and letting such miracles happen. Yes, you're surprised. One wonders, the other tears dive, pay, and they don't know how to forget that Radman was on HRT. They don't know where to go from crocodile tears. All that says is you don't want to hear it. Why does that bother you? Why does it bother you that all four programs have been removed? Why does that bother you? Why do you bother and tomorrow you'll be bothered that the Supervisory Board also did his job half-way? And it'll bother you. We announce that, prepare yourself, justify the work of the Supervisory Board. Why did you change it? Why did you replace certain people? So that they may not be seen in public what they have done to one another or to another. These editors, who are not present today, who have certainly acted on editorial policy today, have nothing to say, have forgotten to speak, have disappeared in the impasses of Croatian truth. Because today, they were loud yesterday, but they're not here today. Yesterday on the board they were screaming, today they have nothing to say because this truth that is before us is sad and tragic. I don't know why Croatian citizens are being executed because of these failures that they experienced on HRT, why Croatian citizens paid for such a public service that is not true, which is not just, which has not fully informed them, but has haired the information as it has passed on to the ruling furniture. At the time, they were loud in lawmaking, and they said it would be the best law, that it would be the best thing in Europe, that it would be the best of all those so far, and that everything I have stated today would be respected and not respected. Here's what I'm going to do, and I'm going to end up because I don't think there's any more to remind you of what they've done and what they actually want to do today, just as quickly as possible, not to be heard, not to be seen, to be forgotten. You can't forget. We're not asking to be in the first plan of HRT, we're not asking to be everyday. We're not asking to be with fake haired reports on the journals, in the Open, but we're also looking for quality in political confrontation and not on the mounted shows that have been so far. That mounted shows that face three left-handed and one right-handed. Those were practices. It's evidence, visible. And it was also seen that the editors of the questions formulated, how they were suggesting, were all things that should be discussed today that the programming council should say that, we said then and then, in writing, we asked the supervisory board to do so and that, we asked the editor-in-chief to do so and that, from the director. It's gone, and they discussed it in their records, but they didn't leave a written trail to warn them. In addition, they should have requested an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Information and Media and made it clear if they were not allowed to live in a house in which they were supervised and represented. The program you were following probably liked you, you were probably appointed by those who liked such a program, so you didn't have any important remarks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7865	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7866	Thank you very much. Our colleague Djakic, indeed, has held discussions here over the past four years and there have been all kinds of politically colored, quality, professional ones. But we kept having trouble with the manager at the time. We remember, he was in conflict of interest, so they determined it, and I guess I don't know for a year, two days, if, if it wasn't a conflict of interest, so as a Parliament, we asked only to get an insight into what kind of pay editors have, the leaders of individual shows, and then in the first attempt, we got a little table with some indicative numbers and he says we can't give it to you because it's secret, secret, corporate secrets, we can't know what the value of certain contracts is, like, employees on HRT. Then we resisted, so we got another plate. In the second table, they sent us a formula to figure out for ourselves how much pay could be with some other smaller supplements so that we don't know much more or less today than we know what you're talking about right now. And SDP as a SDP, they made it hard with those reports all the time, they didn't even want to discuss them. I remember my colleague Stazic being angry with Goran Radman and asking him to come and pay the wages to see that it was cleared up. But it never came to an end. They always faked it, to pass because they had the policy of the service, everything went on their own, and we came to this day, when you change 40 editors in 20 days, it's professional and objective, and now that a few leading editors are being replaced, then it's censorship, and it's probably going to pass today and probably tomorrow, but it's important for us to fix it, to become a real public service, to get objective information and to get people information that they can handle, that they're quality. Even from these discussions here in the House of Laws that regulate their lives to be truly on the level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7867	Replica response, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7868	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Boric, you've made it very clear that this House has lost its credibility. If we as MPs, which is not the first time, happened once before, also when we asked for the principal's salary in this parliament with all the extras, we got it after two days of discussion, then I think Galic, that after a certain time he gave in and out of the second day only around noon, that when we said that we would ask for the immediate shift of directors who did not want to show the Croatian Parliament how much pay he has, which is paid from public money, not from advertising, but from subscribers who are Croatian people, that is Croatian people, Croatian citizens. We couldn't get as much as we did today. It's the same formula, the principle is the same, you serve us, and we'll justify all your bullshit. This is just a piece of the one that offends us, which demeans us and puts the Croatian Parliament aside from those powerful men who have been throughout the past and socialist states but also the current functions have been in the function of governance and resources as well as the media. I believe that this iceberg that melts will come publicly to all of us, that we will safely and this way, we can ask the new directorship to give us all the specifications, salaries, diaries, contracts, all those external associates and houses, all those receipts that were to be delivered here to parliament so that Croatian citizens finally know where their money was spent because they have the right as well as we advocates that we have the right to know.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7869	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7870	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues were saddened to come with a public media service. It is sad that today we have this debate after those opportunities that we had under the 2010 law, and that is why they are wrong who say we are all the same. And he's wrong, my esteemed colleague, Petrina, who says we're all the same. It's just not true. Because we had a 2010 law that meant a political consensus where the position without the opposition could not have chosen the director and editors themselves. Otherwise it's forbidden to use a cell phone in a meeting room. I just wanted to say why someone who wanted an objective public media service in the Republic of Croatia who paid for all MPs to go to the law and introduce the law di only the parliamentary Kukuriku coalition can choose its chief director with its votes. Why would anyone need that? It was only meant to have political control over public media services, there was no other need. Everything else could have been implemented under that law. Programmes could be examined, reports could be discussed in the Assembly. If the financial reports did not correspond, it could have been changed... The team, but there was always this corrective opposition. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And how in opposition at the time was HDZ who knew something about it and said it because it carried out the whole process of harmonising media legislation with the European Union, which took a lot of nerve and a lot of knowledge. That didn't suit our colleagues from the then-in-law of today's opposition. So we're not all the same. Because when we were in office, we offered a law that sought political consensus. When our colleagues and colleagues from the Kukuriku coalition were in power, political consensus came to light. So, we were together, we were for consensus. Obviously not accepted, it was obvious that division and domination of one side were appropriate. Therefore, we are not all alike and cannot accept it. And it says the political rule. That it's all about social processes, and so in politics, a lot of people have read there maybe Umbert Eca and no matter how much of the slaughter you put on the left side when you let it go, it'll come back to you. And let that be a message to both colleagues and colleagues from the SDP who did it at the time. So, the problem is not only with the Programme Council and their writing and their illiterate, but is the problem with the law that was passed the way it was passed. I can agree with my colleague Ilcic who said he was good at the Program Council. Discussed... Indeed, there are people in this Programme Council with a certain respectable knowledge and experience. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I view this negative opinion and our negative vote as a finding and as a guide to what to do in the future. In any case, change that kind of media legislation, in any case do not allow you to have such a boastful relationship with the Director-General in the Croatian Parliament that when you ask him a question about the costs to answer that it is a corporate secret as if he controls the majority of the shares of his private television. He's out of his mind. He's out of his mind. I'm not even interested in the whole quality of the program that was on Croatian television being evaluated exclusively by ratings, because some types of programs will never be as watched as is the game transfer. But the information programme of public television must be seen as an information programme of commercial television because its ratings are evidence of its relevance and quality. You can't say that for a documentary program, you can't say that for an educational program. But the information program, its ratings is an indicator and its quality. And we had a situation just this time in 2014 that he was falling drastically compared to commercial television. Whose responsibility is that? Whose responsibility is that the programme contract between the government and television was signed for a period of five years with strong objections, and you know when changes to the programme contract with the Government were agreed at one of the last meetings of the Government in 2015. Interesting! Before the election itself. Even more interesting. It's something that public media service can't be run. About the decline in the quality of journalism and the spread of journalists, I'm almost speechless. There were questions here about HRT3. I think that's what Mr. Milorad Pupovac was talking about. I'd have a lot of objections about that. I would ask where Croatian cultural institutions were involved? I'd like to ask you what was the gender show on HRT three where you might have been able to discuss or discuss culture with the culture minister or her deputy. She was gone. Where was that possibility that you could open some questions about it? What I'm particularly interested in is probably going to be a speech tomorrow. You know colleagues and colleagues, we get very often here in the Croatian Parliament, and our public catches the topic about the program, especially the information program, etc. And underneath that first look, that first radar gives you a billion and 300 million kunas of public money. So it is the largest public enterprise in Croatia that has no administration but is concentrated under this law in the hands of one man. Do you know what money is and who controls it the way it is? What about the outside production, what about the purchase of licenses, what about the downfall of marketing space, what about the question of buying equipment, what about the question of getting money on individual contracts. I've heard an off-the-book report that I don't know how many dozen computers have been purchased on Leasing. Can you believe that amount? And who's going to answer for that? I'm careful about the personal reduction in the subscription. You know why? Because this subscription can be a reservoir for the launch of a complete audiovisual sector in the Republic of Croatia. These are the funds that can be used for employment, for the production of the drama programme, for the screening of a new series, such as "Heroes of Vukovar", which would employ people, who would employ complete audiovisual entrepreneurship in Croatia. It's not used. Where's your money going? It wasn't a pay problem, if someone transparently says I have a salary of 25 thousand kuna, it's a minor problem. The problem is in secret annexes because someone specifically rewarded themselves according to the way they liked it. And finally, I hope that this report and the reports that will come may serve us for the future of a respected colleague. You know where Europe is going? In television on demand, Internet providers operate where telecoms are combined via the Internet to combine and connect consortiums that destroy and commercial public television across Europe and the world. And that's where we tap in our '60s TV visions. And '70s. A year. Well, she won't be, she'll be run over by large multinational companies that you can't stop. See today how many channels you have, how powerful Internet providers are that today big magazines like Globe and Times go to the Internet sphere, are no longer printed. A whole new vision of media space. Europe joins a chapter of culture with the media because one without another can no longer survive. Well, we used to sell stories in the '60s or '70s as a role model. It will also move public television and cultural identity of the Republic of Croatia if we do not step forward towards that future. And it will come very soon, very soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7871	Thank you. We have three replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Blaženko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7872	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear fellow Mesic, through your truly exhaustive debate, you pointed to everything that was happening. I'm the only one in this segment who can't agree with you when you say that the press is all over the place. It is indeed for us who were so clear on the other side of the screen. However, I have often been in contact with journalists. I wouldn't say that, and of course I'm speaking generally not individually, I wouldn't say that the journalists went crazy, but were forced to obey the editors and editors. I've often met dear journalists in the field, friends who would say, you know, we can't film you an editor's warrant. You know we can't get this warrant to the editor. You know if it's some kind of incident we'll come right up, if we call the phone for some sort of event, we'll come right up. But if there's an object opening there, some manifestations positively said the editor didn't have to, that it wasn't necessary. It wasn't easy for them in those days either. The vast majority of journalists were not easy in those times because they had to work for that day - to - day bread and on the other hand if they had little conflicted with the editor or the management they knew how to run out of that bread very quickly. It is known that we have already mentioned this Bartholomew night, when 60 editors lost their jobs for one night. And now that you've developed it pyramidally to the bottom, then you can realize that it's possible that there may be hundreds of journalists left without their daily and very heavy bread. Journalists are very often between hammers and anvils in this situation and therefore a large majority of these journalists need to be understood. That is why I hope that we will not go on about journalists in the future but for those who, because of this swearing of happiness, have to be obeyers of the editorship or management staff at HRT at those times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7873	Replica response, distinguished representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7874	Dear colleague Boban, you have the full right to accept your replica, which is something I was going to say, obviously, I've expressed myself vaguely. In fact, I meant that the editors just cross-reference journalists every day through various other locations and other topics. So journalists can't be specialized in, say, tracking a topic that they would know about in depth and in quality reporting. About health care, education, culture, foreign policy. But it was just these frequent editorial roschas that editors used to do that that made people move in a way that led to certain surfaces or gimmicks. So that was the point of what I was going to say. I absolutely think your replica is in place that you pointed to correctness and great potential in fact journalists that HRT has.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7875	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Zeljko Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7876	Dear President, we've seen that around the Ministry of Culture, there's a crime scene where, for example, there's a crime scene. One man paid himself for his portal 780 thousand kuna, one woman from the Ministry of Culture to her daughter, 90 thousand kuna, etc. There is a strong suspicion that such an atmosphere exists on HRT where there are 3,000 employees, the entire brigade. We've been talking about how much money there is already, what kind of company it is, it's millions of dollars in kunas. It's totally transparent. Inflated invoices, etc. But I'm going back to the content of that television. What about investigative journalism in Croatia? What is being explored in Croatia? Why is there censorship and auto-censorship? Why are some people paid to write this and some people to shut up about this and that? How come so far no journalist in Croatia has explored where the bank accounts of the UDBA are, for example, which were until the 1990s the fall of the Berlin Wall... stated that, then, in the 1990s, millions and millions of dollars of taxpayers of this state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How come no one published an interview with UDBA killers like Vinko Sindičić, for example. who is walking around the Adriatic, who was getting $60,000 per murder today... on the Adriatic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How's that? Why didn't anyone talk to the people from... The UDBAs that stole that money and now they're coming back... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] foreign investment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are key questions for us if we talk about true democracy and why we keep it quiet. What about the archives of this CHSKH. It's been 50 years since then, which we have to hide more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7877	Replication response
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7878	Dear colleagues, you have now listed a number of interesting and important topics that a serious documentary programme and a scientific research news programme could reveal. And of course, on this show, give a variety of opinions, so let the viewers really in Croatia have the right to assess the truth. As a citizen, that would be very good for me. And I believe that even most people who receive a subscription would be extremely appropriate because these topics would really get analytical representations, not those 10 seconds that we get sometimes, and those in information shows from which much cannot be concluded. But you know there's got to be a certain vision for that, so let's say the human width. Unfortunately, we haven't had a chance to see it in the past on Croatian television, and I believe it will happen. It won't go easy and it won't go fast. Those processes take a lot of time. And I believe that perhaps earlier in this documentary and drama programme, I know that films and drama programs are being prepared on the subject of the fall of Vukovar, on the subject of the siege of Vukovar, and I believe that this will somehow restore citizens' confidence in both HRT and what it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7879	Thank you. And the last replica of Josip Boric, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7880	Thank you very much. You spoke to my colleague Mesic in your discussion of both the consensus and how we, in our opposition, insisted that a certain level of consensus be achieved about the HRT Act as it was under that first law. However, you warned me then that you clearly told them that this was an introduction to the creation of party television. He wouldn't listen, and we didn't really understand why. But we later saw in other selection procedures the people appointed by this House that it was actually a pure intention. Because we chose the state's attorney the same way, the opposition went out and we couldn't even say anything, suggest, suggest. I'm with the Attorney General, too. And, of course, when you're out of power in opposition, you start to be bothered by the laws you've passed. And of course, what's happening today is what we have, shift stories, censorships that don't have any real background. Because it is worth remembering both 2014 and that famous contract with HDS 67 million kuna signed in advance for 3 years. There was something, apparently, and the police had some work to do with certain applications, the supervisory board said theirs. And everyone was wondering why now all of a sudden. There was a story about the fact that the CEO also wants a certain amount of money for his office, etc., etc. And today we come to this, this situation where we hear I say again SDP stories about censorship. I think that's what he's doing on purpose because it's better to talk about censorship, constitutionalization, fascists than to have someone ask them anything about the MIG affair because it's suddenly gone from the general public to no one, and it doesn't matter to anyone. And no one from the SDP has said a single sentence yet, let's say, about it and it's very important. Maybe he will.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7881	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7882	Well, you have absolutely the right of a respected colleague, so much so that we here should discuss it more adequately, and in some ways, the public media service should also report it. I told you that very often we catch an information program and actually beneath the radar goes this course of big, big, big amounts of money. When I heard this information that I'm really going to ask for official confirmation that computers are being bought on the Leasing of today when at that amount you can get I don't know what kind of use you are, then I have to say that I've remained absolutely fragrant. To pay for copyright, you know we're never against the value of copyright. Three years in advance, counter opinions twice by the board of directors. After that, the Supervisory Board shall vote on this point alone, where individual members of the Supervisory Board change their views at the telephone session, the phone session shall be held with the adoption of the contract of 68 million kuna and the resolution of the Supervisory Board thereafter. So, therefore, you really don't give a shit, you get a headache. Always above the big phrases about how it will develop, there are unfortunately many interests that are not justified and of what it can be... And these money, I say, can be scary drivers and employment and development. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's what smart public television in countries the size of Croatia actually does. Look at Denmark, look at Slovakia, and you'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7883	Thank you. Individual debate will be held by distinguished representative Bozo Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7884	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The programme council's report is a big hoot, so it's written that it doesn't give too much cause for the debate itself. However, today's debate is thus less debate on the programme council is already a debate on the essence of the problem, which is HRT. On the basis of the programme council's own report, and even more so on the basis of the programme we are looking at, it is clear that the HRT has neither fulfilled its programming nor legislative but no obligations under the HRT agreement with the Government of the Republic of Croatia during the period under consideration. That is why I will look more as a viewer in this report, even more as a political representative of Croats outside Croatia. So, based on the contract between the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Government, HRT broadcast two television shows, a view across the border for Croatians in BIH and the Voice of the Croatian Homeland in the diaspora. The first editor of this program was already mentioned here by Karolina Vidović Christo. After she was fired from HRT the show was canceled and then restarted with another editor but transferred to the fourth program and to an absolutely unacceptable term, Thursday at 15.30 pm when most people work or travel from work. It is also paradoxical that this same show has been broadcast, replayed in a much better time on BHRTU than it was broadcast on HRT. My colleagues and colleagues, however, did not just stop at HRT's politics and administration. Within the framework of the suspension or alleged rationalisation and correspondence, both correspondence from BiH and Sarajevo and Mostar were abolished and you talked about this already afternoon by your colleague Ilčić, a colleague of Mađerić, and alluded to two correspondents. In the meantime, one of the correspondents went to a pregnant woman, and now we're on one. So, I don't have any further on what to say, surely the development of rationalisation wasn't basically because the Sarajevo editorship is in any BHRT building completely free, by correspondence actually in making progress, Croatian cultural social progress, also completely free of charge, which means, about reasons possible etc. I spoke when there was a debate on the resolution of Mr. Radman's former director, and I wouldn't talk about it any further. I expect, of course, from the new Croatian leadership and the new editorial policy that issues of interest to Croatians outside Croatia are also issues of interest to Croatia. So, we as a people who actually have here actually live on this part of the European continent, we have our own two countries and in the diaspora actually, counting the diaspora we actually have two equally symmetrically large Croatias. We need mutual information in all possible spheres so that we can cultivate both our national and cultural and every other identity. And what I expect from the new HRT leadership is that issues of interest to Croatians from the Republic of Croatia are not gettingoized on one or two shows, but that these topics are processed in all information emissions, debate shows of type Open, in cultural content, etc. New technical conditions, the transition of satellite transmission from satellite to internet broadcasting enables Croats outside Croatia to monitor all HRT programmes in real time. This is therefore also an opportunity and message to the new HRT leadership and the new editorial college that also all topics of interest for Croatians outside Croatia are being processed in all programmes because, of course, there are technical conditions now, and when I speak from the position of Croatians from the BIH, I expect to reactivate both correspondence in Sarajevo and Mostar, of course there are opportunities to be complemented at another centre. And now a few words about the information program policy. Look, yes, we must agree that public television has a significant impact on the creation of a social and political climate in the country. And this perception that was created in Croatia in a deep schism of ideological and social, between society, cannot actually be exculpated either by public television itself or by HRT itself. The fact that there's an impression that we're trapped in the past, the fact that there's an impression that World War II hasn't ended yet is actually going to the burden of public television. Well, it's no wonder then that the main stars of the debate shows on HRT are historians. I will list only some names, Jakovina, Markovina, Klasic, Banac, Lucić etc., etc. But what topics are being addressed, the 45th theme as if 95 were not there. So now we can speculate why HRT's policy was the way it is. And what's the problem? The problem is that in this country, in fact, these divisions are still divided into so-called. The anti-fascists lie on the ground that even that diagnosis of this situation may have been best given by a philosopher of the left promenade some 20 years ago when he said after winning the Fascism 45 years ago the political form of socialist antifascism could never really be emanciated from his template of fascism, and today we also have a situation here in the Croatian Parliament, in Croatia public to create the impression that so-called. The left socialist anti-fascists, the mahogany former communists who claim the right of monopoly on anti-fascism cannot actually exist without fascism or that fascists are wanted, not only to be sought but to be invented. And then there is the impression of a deep division in Croatian society. Next example, I listen to the 18th March Croatian Radio show at noon, it took place today, the anniversary of the signing of the Washington Agreement. It is said about this: “As long as the conflict between Muslims and Croats involved Croatia, which had serious, international diplomatic consequences for Croatia, a Federation was created. The Federation has proved dysfunctional because the counties do not work and are difficult to come by adopting the budget."Not a word about the fact that the basic problem of non-functioning of the Federation is imposed constitutional solutions and the revision of these constitutional solutions by world powers and cynicism of world policy. And then we are surprised and disgusted that the Hague indictment, in the indictment of four Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina, mentions the aggression of Croatia and the joint criminal enterprise involving Tudjman and Sušak. And Croatian radio, so here's March 18th this year. Example next, reporting on Karadzic and Seselj's verdict. Croatian broadcasters are interviewing representatives, political representatives of Serbs, political representatives of Bosniaks, interviewing citizens Banja Luka and Sarajevo, mostly Serbs and Bosniaks. There are no statements by any Croatian politicians from Bosnia and Herzegovina, but that is why we have statements by Cardinal Puljic and Bishop Komarica. What message is that? That Croats are a right-wing group in Bosnia and Herzegovina, not a political people. The same day we read a very moving message from the president sent to the mothers of Srebrenica and which is fine,... The impression is that there is no one to write to Croatian mothers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not about that, there's someone to write, but there's no one to publish. So that is the problem of the media and Croatia. Of course, I was talking about the media in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And now to paraphrasise the famous poet Peter Preradovic, “O the language of your generation, about your tongue and mine.” Language on HRT. The Herzegians never poured wine or brandy until they started watching HRT, and now they pour wine and brandy and fuel and don't pour it. Next, an excuse, an accent. I'm sore when I hear that Medjugorje and Herzegovac Marin Cilic lost the match. But it also stings my ears when I hear that the best Croatian tennis player Marin Cilic won the US Open. I don't mind so much that in the first case when he lost the match he mentioned that Marin Cilic is Herzegovac, and in the second when he won the US Open that the best Croatian tennis player is already an excuse and an accent. So these are things that can't happen on one public television because for us language laika, actually, television is an orientation language, and therefore, of course, you need to take a fat account of it and at the end of the term Bosnia. As far as HRT's political journalist is concerned, I hear a name for my other countries or first country of Bosnia. What message is that? For us people, political representatives of Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina actually term Bosnia, term Bosnian, term Bosnian nation as a supranational is actually a policy of the great-doers' unitarians who would actually like to raise awareness of the other two peoples of the Serbs and Croats at best in the position of the ethnic community or religious group. Therefore, this should not actually be overlooked on HRT in a political programme, an information programme. Because that's the thing. And of course I end up with this, I expect the new leadership of HRT to meet both its legal obligation and its information mission, but considering all Croats anywhere to live. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7885	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Stevo Culej.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7886	It's a few of us, but it's enough for me to send one message and testify to one truth. It is very bad if the government is used by the media to maintain power, to deal with its inexperienced people. We've witnessed in one time what was for the last government when that government dealt with one of its members who had gone a little rogue, who wouldn't listen to his base, and it's about us all known that it wouldn't be me defending a convicted person because I'm in one procedure. It is about the head of the police administration of Vukovar-Srijemska Blaž Topalovic and Mother Kirbaher of his deputy SDP, who one day because of their disobedience to Minister Ranko Ostojić or someone else came to the blow of those with whom they were in the same ranks, so they organized their detention in a way that they had first prepared them in the offices, they took their ties off them, their coats because they were intended to go to one anniversary marking, so they went down with them in front of the police administration. Meanwhile, they informed all the journalists, TVs, and when they were ready to turn on the cameras, they staged handcuffs on them, put them on cars, put them in cars, and took them to the State's Attorney's office where they were being heard. It was two members of the SDP, and I just read here on Google has type in Mata Kirbauer over 22 kilos of beans that were intended for the needs of the party for the first May for lunch. Thank you. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7887	Replicate reply, distinguished representative Bozo Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7888	So I figured out this replica of my colleague Culei's actually what power is and what is the tactics of manipulation. So, the public media with public opinion. And so, I can absolutely agree. That manipulation goes in various ways. Now let's take one reform or what I would call it in HRT which, by introducing an information media service, actually sent a message of integration of the process in television and radio. But how was that used? Same journalist, same reporter running the show, interview week on TV, same radio, same politics. And before that, he was actually working to say that valve where more freedom could be expressed than on television because there's less than a minute of information. Or take, for example, an example again from BiH. We know what the situation is, or I know best what the situation is in BiH and political and media and what the position of the Croats is. However, Dnevnik's host specifically invites or brings to the show a professor of theology from Sarajevo who declares how many Croatians have radio stations, how many Croats have Catholic school centres and that it is not true that they cannot be educated in Croatian where most are not. However, the journalist's head did not ask that very professor why it is only the Croats needed to organise Catholic school centres to educate themselves in their language, and it is not necessary for Serbs and Bosniaks to have public schools that educate them in their language throughout the country. So these are all kinds of manipulations in which the way you subtly do censorship and propaganda in order to say the excuses of one policy or the washing of your own conscience if nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7889	Thank you. Second replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7890	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Kola Ljubic, when the former director of HRT made a decision on the abolition of correspondence in BiH, then the meeting of the Committee on Croatians outside Croatia called for the the thematic session to which we also invited Mr Radman. So the man came and then assured us that nothing would change, that it was just a technique, that there wouldn't be cameramen and journalists now, but would be just a cameraman and he would do it with a microphone. So, it's not that he said that nothing will change, but the thing is that he didn't realize the point is that Croats in BiH have information that's happening in Croatia. But what is far more important is that Croats in Croatia have knowledge of what is happening in BiH. Unfortunately, in Croatia today, many people in principle do not understand what was going on politically in BiH at the time. Because if the Croatian National Assembly had not happened, that Mr. Covic had not gathered all Croatian practically into one pile and that for the first time practically from an independent BiH did not happen for the Croats to choose their own member of the presidency in Croatia, it is probably irrelevant for some. On the other hand, Croats in BiH are the only three constituent peoples who do not have their own television, without their own language. And they are practically doing this correspondence in BiH and tracking HRT is the only real connection media with Croatia. But I'm saying, the principal's answer is that nothing's going to change and that the cameraman is going to record it, and he can record the tone on the picture clearly says how much he's actually looking at the width of that problem. And the board has reached certain conclusions, but unfortunately our people say there's one folk on the willow playing. That's how unfortunately it happened with that. And not to mention what time the "Over the Border" show is broadcast.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7891	Replica response, distinguished representative Bozo Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7892	So, I'm sure you and I and a few other people here may know the situation best because we've been elected to that constituency, we've passed the field, and we've seen it. So it is true that Croatians do not have public media service in their own language at this time, but that we actually have HRT's assignment as public television of the country of origin would be in the interest of the Croatian state itself, in the interest of all Croatians to broadcast topics and to get to know each other. So, we are now in a situation not only do Croatians from Croatia not know about their countrymen in BiH, but it is a little different because we are looking at these HRT programmes, unfortunately because we have no other interests to look at in BiH, but even worse we Croats in BiH who live in Neum and those living in Oras, in Posavina, cannot recognize each other. And then the professor's argument that I mentioned earlier is that we have so many local district radio stations that don't drink water. For the radio from Neum speaks of the subjects of Neum, the one from the Num, the one from the Num, about the subjects of the Num. What we're saying today is, we're not talking about moaning over spilled milk right now, that's past things, Radman's been removed. We say that the future leadership of HRT and future editorial policy would respect those interests of both states and people. As for the thematic session, I will say one thing here, I think it is a mature time for this House to open a thematic session on the position of Croats in BiH because preserving political... Croats in BiH have long-term preservation of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia itself throughout their territory. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7893	Thank you. We've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow at 9.30 we continue with point 4. Annual report on the work and implementation of the supervision of the legality of the work and financial operations of the HRT for 2014. Session adjourned at 4:31 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-14-0.u7894	The following is the report on the work of the HRT Programme Council and on the implementation of the programme principles and obligations of the HRT established by the Law on HRT and the Treaty between the HRT and the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the term of office from 1 January 2014-31 December 2014. The report shall be submitted to the HRT Programme Council. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion. A report on the work of the HRT Programme Council and on the implementation of the programme principles and obligations of the HRT established by the Law on HRT and the Treaty between the HRT and the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the term of office from 01.01.2014-31 December 2014 shall not be accepted. Please vote. The vote is over. 74 votes are for a conclusion, not one abstention, 29 against. I find that most of the votes have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary parent committee. Good morning, colleagues and colleagues, we're not very numerous, but we're on our way to work. And we proceed naturally to the agenda. Today we will discuss: 4. Annual report on the work and implementation of the supervision of the legality of the work and financial operations of HRT for 2014 The Reporter is NO HRT I would like you to note in your discussions that this is for the 14th year. The applicant shall be the HRT Supervisory Board based on Article 23. HRT law. You've all received the material in boxes. The debate was submitted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. You received a report from the Committee at the session. The government also delivered its opinion. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain the report? Yeah. Here is the chairman of the Supervisory Board, Mr. Shenol Selimovic.
