ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u7139	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm looking on behalf of the National Minority Club for a 10-minute break due to a lack of implementation of the National Strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u7140	Thank you very much. We have an esteemed representative, Jaroslav Pecnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u7141	On behalf of the Labour Club, I request a 10-minute break for violation of the Law on HRT and violation of the Treaty of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and of the Croatian Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u7142	Okay, thank you. Anyone else? No, I guess we don't have anyone else. Thank you very much. I'll see you at 9.45. Thank you. It's 9:00.38. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u7144	I would like to thank the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. I am using this opportunity to highlight the dissatisfaction with the fact that the policy towards minorities is out of focus of government, especially the National Strategy for Roma inclusion 2013-2020. Given that this is the government's document and commitment to the government, I am taking this opportunity to encourage the resolution of the issues of national minorities, especially the Roma community, in line with the existing strategy. As on the previous current morning, I will also encourage debate today on November scholarships for Roma, but also other categories of students who, despite the explicit promise of Prime Minister Tihomir Oreshkovic, have not been resolved. The deadline of a month in which the Prime Minister has promised to solve the problem with today has expired. The National Foundation for Supporting Student and Student Standard doesn't exist, there's no principal, no one answering the phone. I wonder who we should address at this point, and what message do we send to students before the academic year itself? What further is it not just about scholarships but the entire national Roma strategy that has been put under the rug? The Committee for Monitoring is implementing the National Roma Integration Strategy, which I point out just as the National Foundation currently does not exist, has not existed since October of last year. I ask that this matter be resolved as quickly as possible and I expect a quick, quick launch of a tender for the establishment of this working body. These two examples show that there is absolutely nothing currently done about the Roma national minority. In such a situation, the Council of Europe shall issue urgent recommendations to the Government of the Republic of Croatia concerning the implementation of the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities. One of the urgent recommendations of the Council of Europe is to set as a priority the development and revitalisation of marginalised areas largely populated by members of national minorities in an unfavourable situation especially for returnees and Roma, through targeted investment in infrastructure and the creation of an opportunity for employment." Apart from revitalisation of areas where minorities and Roma live, there are no targeted investments in infrastructure, nor are employment opportunities created. I do not see that the government has put the issue of the Roma national minority in any way as a priority. I will repeat my proposal here once again when I talk about the Committee for the Implementation of the National Strategy for Roma Inclusion, which is that Roma must stop being an object and become a subject of political life. It is already known that the minority councils at the level of the municipality, the city, the county are in no way or under-functioning mainly due to lack of funds. However, I suggest once again that these legitimate Roma representatives elected in the democratic elections by the Roma community are interested in working and making progress, that at least those at the county level by automatedism be appointed to the commission or that in a public tender that should soon be announced the criteria are set so that Roma, democratically elected representatives are included. It is paradoxical that legitimate Roma representatives are not involved in a commission that should be dealt with by involving Roma in society. These people were not chosen by me or by the Government but by the Roma community. Once again, we unnecessarily fall into the trap of well-prescribed ones, while on the other hand the implementation itself is lagging behind. Time passes quickly, first they had a long process of forming a government, then we were out of focus because of the state budget in which we have reduced resources, and now we are not using these reduced resources. Such a situation shows that, in addition to small funds, the biggest problem remains the lack of implementation of the objectives outlined. I am therefore taking this opportunity to well-incentive the government and all fellow parliamentary representatives who have supported me and in the last term to move forward with the implementation of the set objectives as some minimum condition for the progress of the Roma community. Interrupt or lack of implementation of a national strategy that must be our country's national interest will eventually cause a number of negatives and cost us all more than to face the problem today. These and I end up pointing out that both the Roma and minority communities that I represent need reform and that my constituents, our fellow citizens, our minorities should be part of all important political processes and in the focus of the government, and especially students who are the future of both the Roma communities and our countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u7145	Thank you very much. I would kindly ask my colleagues to listen to the one who speaks, not to each other, especially those who swear to protect the rights of the minority, and then when a colleague who represents it is talking about it, then there are conversations about everything and everything and you can barely hear it. It's at least incorrect. Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, the distinguished representative Jaroslav Pecnik will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u7146	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I must conclude that unfortunately we are witnessing again and again an eclectic violation of moral norms and ethical principles and all the ossus of professional ethics and competences in Croatian broadcasting. When this new set of garrisons came to power, it cleaned up the ideologically insidious personnel, let's just say it was her right. And I believed that was the end of it. The result is low ratings, low ratings, the journal as a central show is actually one of the least watched shows. However, what has gone further is that there has been a major political crisis in this country since its independence or one of the biggest crises on television have come to the idea of abolishing the Open, i.e. temporarily disabling it, or temporarily suspending it with an explanation that Eurosong is actually singing, that the Eurosong competition is important and that it is actually more important than the fact that in the Open as the only relevant political show on the 1st programme in front of the million audience is actually not being elaborated, it is not articulating the most important political issues or that the most important current events are not problemed. I personally believe that if it is not a violation then, in any case, of the Law on HRT and of the contract concluded between the HRT and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and which is valid from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2017. I'll remind you in the Law on HRT Article 6, I won't read everything, I won't bother you, just a little bit to illustrate this intervention of mine. It is said that HRT is obliged to promote national interests, contribute to respect and promote fundamental human rights and freedoms, to patriotism, to understand and respect diversity, democratic values and civil society institutions, and to improve the culture of public dialogue. Article 7 of the same law states that HRT is obliged to keep the public informed in a timely manner of facts, events and phenomena in the country and abroad of public interest. What's going on with us must be a public interest. Respect and encourage political pluralism, secular and other ideas, to represent views that are plural, impartially process political, economic, social, etc. issues, allowing equal interface of views of different sources. The HRT programme must respect the highest professional standards of ethical principles and professionally recognise the standards of independent journalism. However, in the contract that I mentioned, points 7 and 8 and points 10 of the HRT mission, it's about the values that HRT advocates and speaks for in the end about principles, but they can all be assumed that I am not reading now and that I am not harassing you, I can seduce you under HRT must be in the service of citizens. But HRT has long or long since been in the service of citizens, it has been subserving and actually serving, we can say the most ground floor, even the private interests of individual political leaders, not to say the entire ruling elite. So when our society is in a state, when democracy is threatened, when the foundations of this society are actually shaking, when the government is paralyzed, or actually a question, the question of credibility is the work of the government and its leaders because they are involved in various affairs, conflicts of interest, etc. Instead of being discussed openly, this is avoided because Eurosong is more important than an open or other show. But, of course, this is not possible without participation of how to say leadership to the interim directorship of HRT and it is chosen by this Assembly, or by the ruling majority. And then what they do. It is not so much to the protection of the Croatian regiment from the dark thoughts and all of what is happening and what is watching but rather about the protection of the character and the work of the leading man of power, the leader of the HDZ man and actually the first Vice-President of the Government of Mr Tomislav Karamark. This week we learned that Mrs. Ana Karamarko was in business with family friend Mr. Petrovic, a shadow man in the times of INA when INA was under HDZ control and who, as a lobbyist, actually allowed Mrs. Karamarko to make a decent income. At the same time, Mr. Karamarko is the Deputy Prime Minister who runs the arbitration, it is now said, Mr. Oreshkovic, prime minister, that he will also move to negotiations with the INA But anyway, but anyway, what's important to say is [[Intruder Reiner: Time's up.]] I am. How am I not? [[Intruder Reiner: You have exceeded your time while talking about a topic you have not announced.]] Let me guess when you yell, Mr. Shucker. [[Intruder Reiner: No, you were talking about HRT now you're going on another topic but your time is up anyway.]] Let me finish. The sooner this House stops this agony, the sooner it will call the elections. [[Invader Reiner: You've run out of time from your colleague Pecnik.]] We'll have free television before that. ... [[Invader Reiner: Your time has run out!]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u7147	Wait a minute, please, let's not throw, let's not throw off the bench, please. And secondly, hold on, hold on, I'm asking you nicely for the time and subject we announced. But now the subject will be the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendment...... What are you going to do with your colleague Shucker now, so that's good, then that's good. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let's go. I'm asking you nicely to listen to what you need to hear! We will now move to: - Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 21. Proposer: Club of Representatives of the Croatian Social and Liberal Party, Block of Retired Together and Independent Representatives Gordana Rusak, Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists Therefore, Club of the Representatives of the Most Independent Lists pursuant to Article 85 of the Constitution and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The materials were sent to the Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. We have an amendment submitted by Agent Ivan Willibor Sincic. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. You received their reports at the session. Does the applicant’s representative wish to further explain the proposal? Yes, the distinguished representative Robert Podolnjak and the vice president of this distinguished House at the same time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9643	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers of Management and Assistant. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we begin the debate with the Proposal for a Law amending the law on the financing of political activities and electoral promotion with the final draft law proposed by several clubs, so from the Club of Representatives of the Croatian-Social Liberal Party and counterpart Gordana Rusak and the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. This law is very short. There's only one article. But I believe that this article will also attract a significant debate of the MPs, given that it is a very important issue that we have discussed at the time of the budget and it is about the financing of political parties. The existing law on the financing of political activities and electoral promotion of Article 3(1) found that the funds for the regular annual financing of political parties were determined at 0,05 % of the operating expenditure previously incurred in the annual report on the implementation of the budget. In the opinion of the promoter, such a concise provision actually means that the more states spend this more money the political parties receive. Under that legal provision, looking back several years, we will see that the implementation of the State budget has shown that these operating expenditures have been growing. Thus, the implementation of the 2012 budget shows that these operating expenditures were EUR 118.7 billion, I will not speak until the last June but a round number. In 2013 there were 123.5 billion kuna and in 2014 there were 125 billion 689 million. So in these few years you see that there is a clear trend in business expenditure growth. So the state spent as much as possible, from 118.7 billion to 125.7. It is this tendency that the law that it now stands for political parties on the basis of such a legal provision each year must provide a larger amount of funding for annual financing. According to those figures, the commitment of certain years was therefore 59.3 million in 2014 and in 2015 the commitment was 61.7 million and in 2016 the commitment was 62 million and 850 thousand kuna. This is what stems from the provision to determine for annual financing the amount of 0.05% of the operating expenditure of the state budget. The applicant considers that such a solution has no justification because it is illogical. In fact, it encourages state spending in order for political parties to achieve the maximum amount of funds for regular annual financing of their activities. Therefore, this law proposes a fundamental change in the way that annual funding is linked to the achievement of the tax revenue from the previous annual report on the implementation of the budget and changes the percentage for the calculation of the funds in such a way that it is not 0.05% of the operating expenditure but 0.075% of the tax revenue from the previous published annual report. When we discussed the State Budget Proposal, the Ministry of Finance proposed in the budget to finance political parties in 2016 amounting to 62 million and 850 thousand kuna. This amount is planned on the basis of a legal obligation precisely the amount corresponding to a percentage of 0.05% of the operating expenditure of the state budget. So the government respected the legal provision. On the basis of the amendments submitted in this House and which have been accepted, that amount is reduced to 55 million kuna. And that's the amount planned in this year's budget to finance political parties. The fact is, however, that the amount now secured does not meet the legal obligation. The legal obligation as it is now written in the law is 62 million and 850 thousand kuna. Therefore, at the present moment, we have one obligation stemming from the law passed by this Croatian Parliament, and the second amount was foreseen by the state budget that this Croatian Parliament also adopted. So it doesn't make any sense that we have an act in force and that the law prescribes one thing and that we've provided the state budget with another. What we want with this legislative proposal is to provide for one such form of funding and a legal basis that will not stimulate state spending, but will, on the contrary, bind annual funding to tax revenues. We consider far more logical party financing to be linked to a tax income that we believe will not have such a trend of growth or will not have a tendency to grow at all because we will not be inclined to raise tax revenues. Secondly, by the percentage we are forecasting, we are reducing funding for political parties in the following way. The current legal obligation is as I said 62 million and 850 thousand kuna. According to the legal provision we propose and whose entry into force we are predicting for the first July of this year, and in that sense you will receive an amendment that will soon be given to you on the bench because we could not predict exactly when this law will be discussed. So, with this legal provision of entry into force on 1 July this year, we will spend, in accordance with the law, 55 million kuna on financing political parties as much as is foreseen by the annual state budget. But next year, according to this law, which will be passed next year will provide for the financing of political parties of 47 million kuna. So, from the existing legal obligation of 62.8 million this year, we will legally reduce it to 55, and next year to 47 million. This is, in our opinion, a significant reduction at this time from 63 million to 47 million and we believe that at this moment this Croatian Parliament can unanimously accept such a proposal. I would like to say here that I have seen the proposal, the full proposal of the Law on the financing of political activities, the election promotion and the referendum submitted by the Social Democratic Party's Representatives Club, which is in the process and which was submitted at the end of April this year. And I was looking at a special provision that you SDP colleagues have proposed just about financing political parties. In your proposal for a law in Article 4, you proposed that the financing of political parties should be at zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, eight percent of the tax revenue achieved, and no more than 50 million kuna. If I read your proposal correctly, which you have officially referred to in the parliamentary procedure, your position is very close to what we propose with this legal solution. Therefore, the basis is exactly the same as the tax revenues achieved. The percentage is, the percentage differs very, very little. Yours is 0.08%. We suggest 0.075, so in some differences there's a difference. Your maximum amount is up to 50 million kuna. Ours would be 47 million according to current tax revenues. That leads me to the conclusion that you have a very similar view of what we're giving as proposings, so the difference is an extraordinary one. If you have proposed such a law in the procedure, it is logical to expect me that you will support the legislative proposal that we have proposed and that I will believe in before voting. And that is why I say that I believe that we can have a consensus on this proposal between the parliamentary majority and the opposition. I would like to say that this proposal has also been discussed by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. The committees concluded that they would like this law to be discussed in a regular process in two readings so that, through first and second readings or in particular through first reading, they could also see different models of funding for political parties and to see the consequences of adopting such a law. The consequences are very clear, envisioning a reduction in funding funds for political parties. It tends to have a significant decline, but since the SDP club has also proposed an almost identical solution, we do not feel that there is a need to give up an emergency procedure because if the main party in the opposition agrees with this model, then I see no reason to continue to talk about desirable or different models. This model of tax revenue achieved, this percentage is obviously something that the parliamentary majority and the opposition can accept. The applicant therefore remains in his position to consider this law as an emergency procedure and to vote on it as an emergency procedure. Hopefully, if that's possible today. I would say before I give the word of my colleagues from HSLS, colleagues of Hrebak, that this law is what the public expects of us. We have advocated one of the reform measures to reduce the financing of political parties. That's what I believe there's a consensus in public. This is an opportunity to demonstrate that we are sensitive to the voice of the public and to pass a law together concerning all political parties represented in the Croatian Parliament and to show that we are ready to pass the law together and the parliamentary majority and the opposition that is on the trail of what the public expects of us. I believe that by passing this law we will return at least part of our trust in the Croatian Parliament and that is exactly what we all want in this Croatian Parliament. I would now leave my colleague Hrebak's word to continue to explain this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9644	Thank you very much. Here will continue the distinguished representative Dario Hrebak. One small intervention, I am very much in favour of voting on it today but whether we vote on it today or not will depend on whether we will be brief enough in the discussions to hold a discussion on this law by 12 hours. I hope so. Here you go, colleague Hrebak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9645	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respecting exactly what you respected President now said I will be very, very short. I think the professor has very detailedly chosen why for what reason we decided on exactly this legal initiative. We in HSLS, as well as colleagues from MOST, have observed that this is a political anomaly, I would dare say so, which we found in the draft budget. We've sent the law into emergency procedures just because we expected it to be passed long before. Unfortunately, here's the law today. But it's never too late. What was evident through the committees was a single division of parliamentary deputies. It was about whether this is demagogy, whether this is pulsism. Personally, they can agree that we are very close, at the border of demagogy and pulsism, but on the other hand we must be aware of the fact that today the Croatian public has an opinion on this High House score of 2 out of 5 per all relevant surveys. As the esteemed Professor Podolnjak and the esteemed representative said, I think it's time to send a clear message that some things should go from here to this high house. These may be small things, small things, but I think a change like this will be a good message to be sent today to Croatian citizens. Namely, why the political anomaly? It's not a good message that we send to citizens that as many states as possible spend more customers. The parties don't make money, but it's just such a perception of the citizens, and it's time for us to cut down on this very legal initiative, this kind of legal proposal. I think the message we're sending is good. And what I would like to finally appeal to all the parliamentary deputies to try to rise above the usual today very possibly rhetoric that we are not accused of demagogy and populism. We believe that this is one normal thing if the parties were able to regularly carry out their activities with 55 million kunas last year I see no reason why they should raise it to 63 this year. And like Professor... Podolnjak said only in 2017 will we actually significantly reduce this amount of 55 million kuna. This is one good message that we send to citizens, we send the citizens a message that we are aware of the situation we are in and that we are also aware of the situation in which our citizens are located. We must never forget that. In the end, we would all end up being also citizens of this Republic and so are we when we are home within our households, when we are doing an analysis of our costs we never plan our plans financially through what we spend but through what we are going through. So, I appeal to you, dear colleagues and colleagues, that all clubs support such a legal proposal together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9646	Thank you very much. At the presentation of Vice-President Robert Dolnjak, we have two replicas. The first one is the respected representative of Peja Grbin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9647	Thank you, Mr. President. So, I refer my line to my colleague, the Downworlder, and his exposure has caused me to do it. But my colleague Hrebak is headed in the same direction, so I have to point out one logical mistake in the debate. So you both said that the commitment of political parties' revenues to the expenditures of the state budget encourages political parties to increase public spending. If we accept that logic, then the commitment of political parties' income to tax revenues encourages political parties to raise taxes, right? It's a simple conclusion. So now I ask you what's better for Croatian citizens to encourage consumption or raise taxes? That's why you tried to justify why you're transferring commitment from spending to income-linking. Now, I'll answer you, of course it's not a problem to tie political parties' incomes to tax revenues. However, it is neither good nor bad measure, it is a correct measure but it is also correct when political parties' revenues are linked to budget expenditures, it is also correct when we provide fixed amounts in the law. These are all suggestions that have their own for or against. But this is how populist to say that because the revenues of political parties are related to the expenditures of the state budget of the political parties pump up those expenditures is the least said funny. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9648	The Vice-President of the Parliament will respond, dear Robert Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9649	Dear colleague Grbin, I don't understand, and probably not to the viewers, and probably not to the MPs what you actually wanted to say under logical error? We have proposed our legal solution before you refer your bill to the procedure, and your proposal is the same as ours. So you also based it on tax revenues achieved. So you followed the same logic as we prescribed by our proposal. I just said that, that the implementation of the state budget and the operating expenditures grew every year, and I demonstrated it with numbers a few years back. And they, of course, ran bigger annual funding. I didn't say someone deliberately spent billions more to get 2 million more. I never said that, but simply the fact that the state spends more and more has led the parties to receive more and more. So it's illogical, not that the state purposely spent billions to get a single party a million kuna more, not that. But the fact that your club predicted the same solution as we do. So logic is the same to us and that's what's important.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9650	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9651	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's my colleague Podolnjak, and I've been asked by your debate to report, to tell you that today is whether it's on purpose or by chance exactly the first birthday, so on this day a year ago in this high house they discussed the same point and the proposal of the Labourist for the same thing. Labourists suggested a year ago that the revenues of political parties be taken from the basis of the state budget's income, that they amount to 0.07% means 5 proms we proposed less than you propose today and we also put that limit of 50, no more than or no more than 50 million kuna per year. What was I gonna say? I was going to say that it's extremely high-quality and good for some to recycle laws that aren't bad. So if recycling laws that weren't passed in this high house and whether or not that or not a year ago is going to track down that to improve and strengthen the state budget, that's good anyway. But I also want to say that it's too bad, it's too bad that we spend a year, two or three years because at some point we don't have hearing for good things.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9652	Thank you. The Vice-President of the Parliament will respond, dear Robert Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9653	Your Honor, I'm glad you said this and I'm giving you a confession. It is true that your party has proposed this legal measure a year ago, and I must say that you have had very good legal proposals in recent years. In some I also personally participated in the professional assistance of your predecessor to President Lesar. And I'm glad you suggested the same solution back then. So that solution is logical and we're all on the same track. You were the only one who didn't have enough opportunities or political influence to lead to a vote. I hope that this beginning of the debate and all of what we have said and all of these views that have already been expressed show that perhaps at this point this consensus exists and that together we will be able to bring this law now to light all of what you have advocated over the past years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9654	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. He wants a government official to explain his special opinion? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. And on behalf of the HRID and Independent Representative Shandoor Juhasa Club, the first representative, Drago Prgomet, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9655	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, so I have to admit right away at the beginning one of my own mistakes. When this law was proposed, I raised my hand for an emergency procedure and I think it was a mistake. Finally, I can find the confirmation of these mistakes in the opinion of the two committees. One of these committees is led by Mr. Podolnjak, and I think this serious topic really requires serious debate, serious preparation, because the financing of political parties is only part of a serious issue in Croatia called the functioning of political parties. Another thing that I have to admit now has made quite illogical as far as I know, Mr. Podolonjak, you are still the vice president of the Croatian Parliament, and yet there has not been a very announced exaggeration, so it is not clear to me that you as part of the ruling majority do not know when this law will come to order, so you are passing an amendment to a law that has only one article. This is another example that says that this problem has not been approached seriously enough, which is ultimately also on the line of what we have advocated in the elections and we who were also part of the political platform MOST, HRID, so that there is serious change in the way political parties operate. However, here we have forgotten something that will be agreed on by the largest number of citizens and political analysts, which is that our parties are one of the worst parts of our political system. Citizens have less and less confidence in political parties and less confidence in politicians. I'll remind you of the sentence of a famous politologist... a university that said that only internal democracy can prevent parties in democracy from becoming themselves and ultimately become a state within the state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately for the biggest parties in Croatia, this is exactly what happened and it was not that it could not have been otherwise. After the fall of communism, many parties obviously realized that their political programme had been circled, not realizing that democracy and democratic processes were not passed by decree but were constantly being built. So for the past quarter of the century, we have mostly been divided into those who are in power and those who are preparing for power or simply said one-party system we have replaced with a two-party system. Intangible democracy can't even be an internal problem. Many of us in politics have forgotten the first article of the Croatian Constitution, which says that the government in the Republic of Croatia comes from the people and belongs to the people as a community of free and equal citizens and that the people exercise power over the choice of their representatives and direct decision. So we have a situation where democracy and political parties are constitutional values and the Law on Political Parties is quite declassified and the same values, so it allows the parties in which the presidents choose their own members of the presidency, in which the parties receive names by persons who will only become party presidents. The party statutes, unfortunately, provide broad possibilities for interpretation where party leaders become a benchmark for all things. And recognising what the boss thinks is in a certain way a prerequisite for survival and political progress forgetting that political parties are not interested communities, that political parties are not military and that political parties are places where they should be able and not obedient. The party's leadership is very often because of the lack of confidence in their own ability to limit freedom of speech and, in some ways, introduce political censorship within their own parties, so it is no wonder that any opposition to the party's president ends up being expelled from the party. Then let us not be surprised that we have 150 parties in Croatia and that in this House alone we have what is directly, which is indirectly more than 40 political parties. As long as this is so, let's not be surprised that in Croatia democracy has crossed our fingers, the state is intertwined with corruption and political incompetence. I repeat, we look at politics and see it as a process where dialogue is a key tool for finding a solution that we consider best for society. And I think the time has come for Croatian politicians to step out of their clauses and understand the value of democracy as the most important value of our society and to serve those to whom it belongs. So every municipality employee, the county, each of us must make sure that he is there to serve and not to exercise power over the people. Of course, it will not be easy and it is difficult to expect changes from those who still identify politics with power. So I think we should finally understand that this law will not change and we need to change our own public policies and I'm afraid of such politicians. In the end, we will either democratisation our political parties or democratisation our society, allow thinking individuals to get their place under the political sun, or some new options will appear that are capable of changing or not giving God's politics will begin to lead the street. In doing so, I would tell my colleagues who may have misunderstood their role. Changes in political parties can only be made to those who are members of these parties, you cannot set the conditions. And I'd like some things to change in the SDP and HDZ, and I think that would be good, but that stays exclusively with the members of their parties. Whoever wants to change them should be their member. You cannot do this with the position of membership or presidency, other parties especially by blackmail. We will support this law. We will support it because we consider it the first small initial step in the process of democratisation, political parties which, of course, include the way of funding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9656	Thank you. We have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9657	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, colleague Prgomet, I listened to your debate and I'm glad you pointed out in it the problem of politicians whose private interest is above public interest or I'm glad that you pointed out the problem of respecting public interest when a politician takes office. Unfortunately, today we're looking too closely at the situation. The law on the financing of political activities is one of those laws that we have passed just to prevent certain phenomena in the society that went after the private interest to rise behind the public. You will remember, this law was passed in 2011 under the great influence of the FIMI Media affair. This law introduced mechanisms that should have prevented it, essentially, from helping. However, it is not the only law we have passed to prevent politicians from raising private interest above the public. Under the influence of the EU, we have brought very strict regulations on conflict prevention, and they have largely prevented certain politicians from misusing the position they are in but here, we Croats are obviously creative people when it comes to finding new ways to protect our own interests and today we are witnessing that some politicians, despite such strict provisions, are finding methods to protect their own pocket and their own interests. Sometimes they do it directly, sometimes they do it through their spouses, but we still have to do everything we can to prevent this kind of behavior and to do what you're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9658	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ladislav Ilčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9659	Dear Mr. Prgomett. There is one saying that the greatest enemy of that good is better, in other words, when someone has something against something that's good. Then let's say there's something else better, let's take some time and think about it. In that sense, I'm also reading the beginning of your debate in which you said that you are now against an emergency procedure because I guess we should take even more time to discuss whether there are better suggestions, what Mr. Grbin said, means that now we should discuss how many months I don't know how many months I guess there's a better model and in those few months then probably we'd still have money coming to our parties on that larger censorship. I believe that I agree with the conclusion of your debate which I would say is contrary to this first one. So let's do what we obviously have a consensus on now, and then let's further discuss whether there are any other measures that in some way the status of political parties in the end line would improve our reputation in society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9660	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Drago Prgomet will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9661	Dear colleague, I don't know why you needed to convince me what I said. I'm not what you said you experienced as a replica. So, I think it is really necessary for the serious law on political parties to take the necessary time and cannot go into the emergency procedure as I think this is a small but at least a good start to something called change, in this case financing political parties and ultimately I believe that there will be enough sense here to pass a new modern Law on political parties.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9662	And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Willibor Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9663	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Here's a colleague when you talked about this topic on speaker, I think we should continue to say something about political corruption. We have two examples today, we have counties today, e.g. Zagreb County which provides compensation for parties entering the County Assembly so large almost with, it pays off simply to raise credit, establish some free party, raise credit, enter the County Assembly of Zagreb County, for a year two pay off that loan and still be in plus, plus all that power, compensation for councilors etc., etc. We simply set up such a political system that we colleagues and colleagues grow corruption, we water weed and encourage such behavior. The second example is here, this Assembly. I have the impression that a great deal of fellow MPs here are not free and that, unfortunately, sometimes they have to raise their hand for what they wouldn't want because they have this imperative I have to stay in politics, I have to stay in that society, so I'm going to step on some of my ideals, something that voters sent me here to stay in that circle. That's a bad thing. Here I always remember political late Josipovic, who was the president of the Republic of Croatia until a few years ago. He was not re-elected, then founded his own party and did not enter the assembly with the party. So he can't enter the Parliament without a party. Many here without a party could not be elected to this Parliament and similarly apply to many other councils at the level of cities and municipalities and thus they are subdued to the party president and I think that is what is bad. And if I were to propose a Swiss model that is much more sophisticated, much more advanced than how the voter list is run to how MPs are elected, which is preferentially complete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9664	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is one of the SDPs on whose behalf the distinguished representative, Peja Grbin, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9665	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. This will begin with a reminder of the 2011 and 2012 state budget and of the funds allocated to the work of political parties in those years. So in 2011, support for the work of political parties amounted to 59 million kuna. You've heard well, 59 million kuna and it's so paid out of the state budget. In 2012, the SDP government paid off the government of Zoran Milanovic from the state budget for political parties' work amounted to 50 million and 200 thousand kuna. So in the first year of its mandate, the SDP and Zoran Milanovic's government reduced funds for political parties' work by 9 million kuna, which amounted to about 15% of the amounts paid to political parties a year earlier. I'll ask two questions and I'll be free to answer both questions. Did that measure save Croatia? It's not. And did we make a circus out of it like you do today? We didn't. And why am I talking about making a circus? Because what you're talking about and what you promise is simply not true. Since my colleague Bauk is gone I will use simple mathematical calculations and prove to you why what you promise, what you announce is not true. In the first 6 months following a decision made last week, the Committee on the Constitution will pay 32 million kuna for their work. This bill lacks any transitional and final provisions that would regulate the conduct of the transitional period, and this year is a transitional period because we have a part of the year financed under the old law, a part financed by the new one, we have budgetary resources. So these provisions would have to exist in the law, which is just one of the reasons why he needs two readings. So, if you accept this in the way you speak in the second half of 2016, political parties should be paid a circus of 25 million kuna, amounting to half the amount of 50 million kuna that should be paid under your law, totalling 57 million kuna for 2016. I'll remind you of the same law second government. 2015 55 million kuna, 2016 57 million kuna, and you're telling me about the cut. The decrease was in 2012 compared to 2011 from 59 to 50 million kuna. But I'll do it again, we didn't make a circus because we knew it was our obligation, not some measure that would suddenly appear and save Croatia. What you're saying is demagogue for a number of reasons. First, you forgot to say that by July 1st, a report on the implementation of the 2015 budget and this report on the implementation of the 2015 budget will lead to the amount you propose to be the circus of 50 million kuna, not the 48 million with which it was made public. 50 million kuna. You've just turned the numbers a little bit. However, let's look at the projections made by the Ministry of Finance in 2016, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and adopted by the Croatian Parliament. So when we look at the 2017 projection of a simple mathematical operation, by multiplying tax revenues by a coefficient of 0,075 we get the amount for 2017 of 52 million and 800 thousand kuna, and the amounts for 2018. 54 million and 200 thousand kuna. So much for reform. You're shrinking that nothing would be reduced. In fact, in this year you will pay more to political parties than was paid in 2015. I'm going to do it one more time as it looks like a real reform that doesn't make a circus. 2011 Jadranka Kosor 59 million kuna, 2012. Zoran Milanovic 50 million kuna, 9 million kuna less for political parties. It's a reform of colleagues from the Most. You're saying this proposal is the same as the proposal SDP made in the procedure. Yeah, we can say that. With this proposal you change one item in the law, the SDP proposal has 73 articles and fully regulates the work of funding political parties, so in your eyes it may be the same. The only thing similar, not the same, is a provision concerning the amount to be paid to political parties for their work for the current year. I won't read it again, it was read by my colleague, the vice president of the Croatian Parliament of Professors. Downhill. But the difference is important. The SDP proposal guarantees that funds for the work of political parties can never exceed the amount of 50 million kuna. As you've seen in 2016. 57 million kuna, 2017. 52 million and 800,000 kuna, 2018. 54 million and 200 thousand kuna. This is enough reason not to support this bill. But let's move on. The Legislative Committee proposes to conduct two readings of this law. Very large majority, 9 votes for two readings and 1 vote abstention. The Committee on the Constitution, chaired by the Honorable Vice-President of the Parliament, The bottom one suggests two readings, unanimously. Today we hear another proposal, there's no reason. Of course, two readings must be made about this law, of course there are no obstacles. And I'll tell you why there's no obstacle. There's no obstacle to the amendment you've made today. By 1 July 2016 and the planned entry into force of this law we have a full month and a half in which if you manage to collect most of them today or next week and vote on a legal proposal we have more than enough time to do the second reading and do this law right. Already a lack of transitional and final provisions should be enough for you to do so. But there's more to it than that. For example, there are some things that don't work in the existing law and need to be fixed. And we are aware of that after the law is applied. That law isn't bad. I've already said something in my replica, but I'll repeat again, the law was passed in 2011 under the influence of certain affairs with the financing of the political parties that rocked and still rocked the Republic of Croatia. However, it was also brought through the process of joining the Republic of Croatia. And he was part of what allowed Croatia to conclude negotiations and then EU member states with Croatia to conclude a Treaty on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU. And that law was good in many ways. Over 4 years, we have seen several shortcomings in its application, which we propose to regulate in the SDP bill of law. One of these provisions should be regulated, for example, by a provision of punishment. The SDP has twice been in a happy or unfortunate opportunity to impose sanctions on itself in the Committee on the Constitution. But given the changed majority, we're somehow not sure that's what the new majority would be able to do. And we believe that the imposition of sanctions should be left to an independent body, in this case to the DIP. It's just one of the suggestions. The second proposal is to amend the provision on the publication of data. Already, the law regulates the publication of data on the financing of party political activities. These data are now publicly available, and on this basis, for example, GONG could determine where the funds for the work of HDZ paid by a person in very good friendly relations with the spouse of HDZ President who also financed their departures to Finland for example to lobby for the construction of nuclear power plants. You need GONG today to determine that. With this bill, this would be published on the DIP pages and any Croatian citizen could easily find such data without difficulty in searching. No wonder we won't discuss this law. It's just part of those changes we're proposing. I'll finish, I can see there's a lot of replicas, so I'll be able to fill in some answers. I'm gonna finish up and tell the SDP this law can't support it. I've already given you a lot of reasons, but I'm going to give you one last reason right now. When we sum up the amounts paid for the work of political parties in the term of office from 2012 until the end of 2015 and when we add up the amounts that should be paid for the work of political parties by the end of the 8th convocation of the Croatian Parliament, according to this bill, we realize that the total amount will increase. You're offering reforms, you're saying one thing, and in reality you're doing everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9666	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He's the first of his distinguished MPs, Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9667	Thank you very much. You have told your colleague whether this measure will save Croatia or whether the measure you have taken during the previous government saved Croatia. It's not, it's not. But the fact that the Labour Club last year proposed similar to this law, and that you as the parliamentary majority did not accept it, and here we witnessed Mrs Tyrelli did so a few minutes ago and explained it so you didn't have a good will. You're saying these are the reforms we're offering. Yes, there won't be a large amount, but there will be a message that 15, 20% will be reduced by the parties by a new calculation. Are you saying that these are urgent reforms, these are the reforms that we have proposed? So thousands of laws need to be changed how much you have protected in previous periods of the party, officials and parliamentary deputies. The only reform you've done well is from 200 billion kuna to 300 billion kuna. It's a message to this public. And now we've brought interests as well as these previous ones that have owed 200 you're at 300 that's 100 billion, a third of Croatia's debt has grown in 4 years. And that's the truth we all have to look into together. And this is just a message that we're all going to have to make mistakes together and that's it. to show this social sensitivity to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9668	The replica will be answered by the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9669	Thank you, Mr. President. I tried to tie my debate to the financing of political parties, the work of political parties and the shortcomings in your law, and I believe that I have succeeded. But I understand that it's hard for you to stick to just one topic, and I noticed that in every debate, in every replica you go astray and turn away, so you've done it now. But I'll try to get back on the subject. This law you referred to in the procedure is nomotechnically bad at the start because it lacks basic measures, provisions that would allow it to be applied during the transitional period. That's why it needs to be corrected. You have time for that. Furthermore, counterpart Bulj has been in a coalition with HDZ in power in the Republic of Croatia for 4 months now, this is the only measure you have directed that should allegedly reform Croatia. Let me say that if this is the way you're going to lead us for the rest of the three years and eight months of your term, then you'd better go right now and shorten this agony. Because if this law that has an article that changes one item is not able to write, then I'm really afraid of what you'll do when the law on litigation comes to the bench, the law on criminal proceedings, or some other slightly more complex law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9670	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative and vice president of this house, Robert Podlonjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9671	Dear colleague, of all MPs, I would expect the least of you to talk so much about the quality of the law that is not well written. Namely, it was the one who passed the Croatian Parliament's meeting, because you were the chairman of the Constitution Committee to break the world record in the number of unconstitutional laws that passed through your committee and which eventually fell in the Constitutional Court. This short bill, as you know, has been on board, as you know, and the government has given no illogical opinion in this proposal. We calculated the numbers carefully, in the first term of 31 million, and here will be 23 million in the second term. The tax revenues of those we have available now clearly indicate that we will never exceed 55 million kuna. But to make it clear to everyone your intention that you really wanted this law to be better, to fix it as you say you would have given one or two amendments as you did yesterday when he was at the debate of the Civil Service Act which also goes by emergency procedure but we'll probably consider it in a regular manner. So if you really wanted the law to be more quality, you would surely have submitted the amendments. That's the way for a representative in this house if he thinks something's wrong, he'd submit an amendment, wouldn't he? But you didn't do it because you have nothing to fix in this law. The current legislative provision of 1 July in the second half will apply to the first half. And we will, in accordance with that legal provision, pay off the funds and we will not, and those funds will not be too high. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9672	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Peja Grbin will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9673	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, that the SDP Representatives Club has indeed failed to submit amendments to this legislative proposal, he wrote a law that regulated the entire matter. So if you think it would be good to regulate the whole matter and we can adopt that law by 1 July 2016 and apply it. You say we broke the world record, you don't have to be afraid that you're going to break the world record in unconstitutional laws because so few laws are coming from the government right now and going through the Constitution Committee that there's no fear that it's going to come down in the Constitutional Court because it crashes when there's nothing. To the truth, from the proposals made by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, which ended in the Constitutional Court, five decisions were in favour of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System and only in one case the Constitutional Court concluded that the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system was wrong. But so much for that. As regards the amount, I have reiterated to you once more, this law shall enter into force on 1 July 2016 if it is adopted with the amendment you have proposed. Until 1 July 2016, a report on the implementation of the state budget for 2015 will be made public and probably adopted in the Croatian Parliament. The report shows that tax expenditures will be a circus of €66 billion. By simply multiplying by the 0,075% coefficient you're proposing, we're going to get about 50 million kunas or something less than that. Half of 50 million is 25, plus 32 for the first term is 57. Simple mathematics second grade primary school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9674	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Dario Hrebak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9675	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Grbin, no matter the quantity is a quality. That's where we agree. In the past four years, if I am not mistaken, has it been better for Croatian citizens after all these laws? I have a feeling that we should introduce a new tactics, this new majority, one law write three blanks. Dear counterpart Grbin, you accused us of making a circus with this legal initiative that we are demagogues, and on the other hand, the SDP club also referred an almost identical legal proposal with a few minor disagreements that we disagree on. So I'm asking if we're all competing in demagogy together. You yourself set the limit to 50 million kuna, therefore it turns out that you are also reducing the amount paid in 2015. So I'm asking you, who's here at the end of the demagogue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9676	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Peja Grbin will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9677	Thank you, Mr. President. I have accused you of demagogy not because you are reducing the limit, no, I have accused you of demagogue a respected colleague because you claim to be reducing the limit, arguing that you are reducing the funds for the work of political parties you are actually increasing them. I accused you of demagogy because you speak one thing and do another. And while you're doing it, you're laughing in the face of the entire Croatian public. That's why I accused you of demagogy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9678	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Miroslav Simic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9679	Dear colleague Grbin, you spoke on behalf of the SDP club earlier. I consider the SDP to be a big and serious party and I think we should keep it to seriousness when you speak for the club and shouldn't be used for cheap manipulations. Recently, you and I had a debate where I thought it was your personal attitude, and now I'm surprised if it's SDP's attitude. So when you compare the figures you compare the amounts that the parties have received so far with what they will get this change of law, you see only one side of the story. I would ask you to be credible, say how many political parties if we leave the old law in force this year. And you will see that by changing the law and the amount for political parties, this year, between 6 million and 8 million kuna and in the future, far more. It's about saving a couple of tens of millions of kunas, not a four-year increase waiting for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9680	The Honorable representative of Peja Grbin will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9681	Fortunately there is the Internet, fortunately there are official pages of the Ministry of Finance, fortunately on these pages there are in electronic form a report on the implementation of the state budget from 2003 to here. So you can look and see 2011 political parties during HDZ paid 59 million kuna. 2012 50 million kuna. By 2015, this amount came to HRK 55 million under a law currently in force. On average, about 52.5 million kunas per year were paid to political parties during the government of Zoran Milanovic and SDP. I've read your numbers, in the first year of office, you raise that amount to 57 million kuna, by 2018 the amount you pay to the political parties will once again come close to 55 million kuna. And if the 8th Assembly of the Croatian Parliament remained full for 4 years, it would be expected on the basis of a projected GDP growth to exceed 56 million kuna in 2019. When we sum up these sums, we come to the conclusion that 55 million kuna per year will be paid for your mandate to political parties on average. And as far as I know, 55 million is more than 52.5 million kuna. So, gentlemen, I'll tell you one more time. You speak one thing, you work the other, and you smile in the face of Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9682	The next is the replica of the esteemed representative of Ladislav Ilčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9683	Dear Mr. Grbin, first thing about numbers. What you are not in all these replicas and your debate has denied is that if we remain in the existing law that political parties will receive more than 60 million kuna. We've heard different numbers from Mr. Dolnjak, different numbers from you but what seems unquestionable is that if the old law remains that we will get as political parties over 60 million kuna. If we change the law by this model we get X but less, it means 50 million, 50 million and something, 47, as many as these, how many other years. I'm not going in. But give answers after all these figures you've given, do you think the new law will increase the financing of political parties? No, it's going to shrink. And let me get this straight, the funding of political parties will be reduced, the amount will be reduced. After that, I ask a logical question, did you, as ruling in the last term, accept any law of opposition? You're not. Therefore, you know that this law that you will propose in a month or two ruling will not be accepted. And what is your tactics, then, that we do not accept this law that is now ruling a proposal that reduces the amount that I repeat? It's illogical, so if you're willing to cut it, then accept this law, if you're not willing to cut it, then you won't accept it, it's a very simple situation. I'm also going to say something about the dramatic in your speech. You often perform much calmer than you do today. I understand that many members of the SDP in the last term were on some duties and had salaries there, now they don't, you probably need to take care of them somewhere in the party and by reducing this part of the budget you'll probably get into a difficult situation. But let us together as all the politicians in this assembly give that one incentive, one, one message to me together. Turn this phone down, I can't talk. Excuse me, just to finish my sentence. To give a message, of course it won't save Croatia these ten million but it's moving from itself, that we're moving from ourselves, that we're able to cut ourselves some money if we're asking other sacrifices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9684	The Honorable representative of Peja Grbin will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9685	Thank you, Mr. President. Do you know what a reduction is? I mean, I'm just asking you, do you know this simple mathematical reduction operation? So when it decreases, something is taken away and not added. The reduction is when from 59 million kuna in 2011 which was paid to political parties by the HDZ government at the amount of 50 million kuna. Now back to the current Political Party Act. On the current Law on political parties with more or less similar enforcement on the part of the State budget expenditure in 2015, 55 million kuna was paid. Why? Because the government was aware that the second amount would be too large and because the parliamentary majority then decided. You suggested to give political parties 63 million kuna. After that, the public reacted only when the public reacted sharply, and you referred to the procedure of this draft law and amendment, which was reduced in the State budget for 2016 into the 2015 frameworks. You say I perform dramatically. Yes, I perform dramatically because I simply mind the way in which you present to yourself the Croatian public as reforming the political system. Dear gentlemen. You don't do business managing the state. You do not even prepare laws that should be implemented for the European Directives. We are threatened with sanctions for several reasons not implementing European law but no, for this we do not have time and for dealing with ourselves and for such demagogue proposals. Well, that's why I'm angry, and that's why I'm doing it the way I did it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9686	Thank you. And the last replica of the distinguished representative, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9687	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, colleague Grbin, I see that you have become like a psychic Peja who will see in the future that there will be more income than tax, and that there will be more income for sharing political parties. It is clear here that budgets are linked to the implementation of the budget and that they will appreciate how much political parties will go if they are successful, of course, if the economy, trade, everything else is going to develop, and employment will be higher incomes, so there may be something more, but there will probably be no more in this year. Your credibility has been questionable many times and the most questionable was the interpretation that citizens in the referendum do not actually decide, but the Chief of Staff, that the Croatian Parliament is deciding on behalf of them and reviewing their decisions. That was your most famous, your pearl from which you came out as a great lawyer. I believe that even today, by interpreting these minor changes that surely go in favour of budgets and budget savings, you started to interpret them backwards. Inverted like everything else you've done in your life from singing Thompson that doesn't belong to you and that you don't like until you're out of the SDP, and in the end, it's best to do your job as a procurator because you know it best.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9688	The Honorable representative of Peja Grbin will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9689	Thank you, Mr. President. ... Thank you. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Dear Mr. Djakic, dear colleague. I'm glad you talked in your replica about the Law on the financing of political activities, I'm very happy about it, but when I heard you ask yourself a question, do you know what we are even discussing today and if you know what we were even discussing when we adopted the State Budget for 2016 because if you knew what we were discussing when we adopted the State Budget for 2016 you would see that I am not the psychic Pedja but there is something called the 2017 and 2018 projection in which the Government of the Republic of Croatia foresees visiblely or perhaps based on some economic calculations and mathematics how much income tax and others will be in those years. So, for 2016, a growth in tax revenues is projected to be 69 billion, to 2017. 77.5 billion, 2018. 72.5 billion, etc. So these are the figures that are publicly available to you, which you should have read, I hope it is when you voted on the state budget and on that basis you decide whether to support it or not. The second thing I was very worried about was your speech in at least that short part while you were able to talk about this law when you say that political party revenues are linked to execution. Dear colleagues, political party revenues have so far been linked to execution only as the difference is that the execution has both the income and the expenditure side. So far, they've been tied to the spending side and now it's proposed to tie to the income side of the execution in that part of the tax revenue that I've already told you we can find in what your government has prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9690	Thank you very much. The next one will speak on behalf of the HNS Representatives' Club, distinguished representative Milorad Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9691	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. Although these amendments to the law have only two articles, two too many sentences, I think the topic should cause far more attention not in the financial part but generally on financing, but above all on the functioning and making political parties in Croatia today. There were a few speeches about it. First of all, we disagreed, and we didn't even agree on the addition of the agenda that the law was going according to the emergency procedure. We propose that the Proposer accept two readings, which was also visible from previous discussions that it is technically formally feasible. And also the vice president of the House of Mr. Dolnjak would have remembered what he said yesterday when we discussed the Law on Officials, that the urgency, the recommendation of the Constitutional Court that the laws do not go according to the emergency procedure of the Special Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, was to say unanimously and he was to do so. And now all of a sudden, the Copernicus turn. Technically it can be voted within a month, a month and a half, discussed in two readings and passed one excessive law. And we also suggest that this bill which the SDP has sent tomorrow we will also include it in the procedure, so that a united debate can be carried out on both drafts of the law. Furthermore, I would like to say, I think I heard in the debate a question of our credibility. You know what's wrong? It's not a problem whether it's 0.75, 0.075, 0.075, whether it's going to be 0.080, whether it's going to be 1%, whether it's going to be a fixed amount because now in the debate when you look at it you're bound to expenditure. It was on expenses, now it's on tax revenues. I'm not sure that's an optimal hit. In fact, they will appreciate us and always appreciate us citizens by what we say, how we speak, and how credible we are in what we say and what we do. So, yesterday we're talking one thing, we're thinking the other, today we're doing a whole third. My colleagues and colleagues, here's what I'm going to do with the bill. So far the work of political parties and promotional activities has been financed 0.005 from the expenditure of the state budget. Okay. You now propose 0.075 percent and bind to tax revenues. What's the difference? What's the difference? The only difference is the financial amount. So you didn't need this farce here in Parliament, we didn't need it. Could you not conclude to propose the amount provided for in the budget. I don't think there's anyone who wouldn't accept that. You cut yourself, you know what the cut is by the number of MPs, the political options, and that's it. And if you wanted reform law, then you should have scratched a little deeper and read some things. It may even be, but I'm not sure if it's in the motion itself. Why didn't you tie yourself to GDP growth? You could have. Why not? First of all, with this proposal for an existing law, government spending is encouraged. Well, from economists we hear things should encourage state spending, you say no. What will be 2017 or 2018 you are talking about is the introduction of a property tax. Well, according to that logic, the citizens will say here are the introductions of real estate taxes because their funding of their political activities is linked to tax revenues. So isn't that the same logic? Is that not the same logic? You have no argument against it, because it's just like that. It's said here if it's going to be at 47 million a year, it's going to be 50, 53, 55. As far as I can see from the proposal for the adoption of the law, it is necessary to bring the law in line with the resources provided for in the State budget for 2016 as urgently as possible. So now it turns out by certain calculations that math is wrong. Well, maybe. I'm sorry he doesn't have a minister, but I'd suggest you call the Minister of Finance or Deputys immediately if he has one or an assistant, so he can calculate it. Because now I believe that we are the vast majority of us who follow the debate that we are confused. Or maybe a colleague of Shucker as an experienced accountant and a financier can calculate as much of the figures we're talking about. Furthermore, what I may have expected when I saw the addition of the agenda from what you are on behalf of the promoter and what you represent as e now I wouldn't want to hurt anyone if you're a political party, whether you're the Alliance of Independent Lists, so I won't go on. But it means MOST why you didn't get into one more detail so that this law really has some kind of fundamental change, that it has some kind of reform scheme. Well, for example, I'm going to be so free, so certain recommendations of the State Audit that says, namely, there were a lot of them, and that's what I'm saying, I'm going to put the accent on this, on some of the recommendations that you're up against in your program shows and public speaking through the media and here you're up for it. The donor and donor database should be linked to other similar bases such as data on the business of natural and legal persons obtained from the basis of public procurement, etc. So he says further monitoring of party financing should be complete, including not only the supervision of the business of political parties but also public companies, revealing, for example, the possible payment of some of the costs of political parties by public companies etc., etc. Well, ladies and gentlemen, please accept the proposal, withdraw this law from the procedure, reach the conclusion of what is the limit in the budget, reach the conclusion that this is an annual amount, even if it is already defined in the budget, release it in the procedure, start, follow the recommendations of the political parties, the recommendations of the state audit, the recommendations of the DORH. Obviously or not, however, in order to be able to see the future of not only political parties but also the Republic of Croatia and politics as such in the Republic of Croatia as a whole, we must go back a bit to the past. So when we look at it when I start making donations, it's extremely harsh for one political party, enormously much. So why didn't you want to do something about why you didn't limit donations, the amount of donation under the current law, which is a maximum of 200 thousand kuna from the legal person to the national level, is at the bar that's 30,000 kuna. Political parties are defined in Article 6. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, meaning it binds us all, and it makes it very clear in the items both how and how the political party acts and how it should in principle act on the well-being of the citizens and, above all, the Republic of Croatia as a whole. As far as you're concerned, you also said the ultimate goal is to reduce the financing of political parties. Well, obviously, we should go back a little bit from 2006, 2007 to here and do some analytical work on the subject of the donation that I was talking about, about the use of public enterprises, about a series of affairs that haven't been completed yet, and perhaps for that reason we could refer a more quality bill to the procedure. As far as HNS is concerned, as long as the blanket is, you're covering yourself. My colleague Podolnjak once again appeal to you on the basis of what you were saying yesterday, which I know in principle that I propose to you and the club HSLS also draw the conclusion of what money is in the budget or reduce it so much for funding. Pull this bill out of the process and if you want to make a reform law, the right law, then respect these discussions and respect this proposal to comb it thoroughly. But also go back and get some experience and negative and positive into the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9692	Thank you very much. And your exposure has caused more replicas. The first one is the distinguished representative of Ivan Willibor Sincic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9693	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Here's a colleague when we talk about credibility. I don't see her here. We've been waiting for this law for a long time, it's been announced long enough, and what do we get in the end? We're going around here about 50 million, 47, 52, 54, 55 instead of sending this reform a clear message, yes, the end of the partocracy, we're going to reform the entire political system, regionalization, full reconstruction. And what do we get in the end? Messing up about 50 million. A little bit worse, a little lower. I think this whole debate has been missed today and that's it. That's funny! Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9694	Thank you. The esteemed representative Milorad Batinic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9695	Well, my colleague Sincic, I see that in part you agree with that, perhaps not in part, but in part you agree. Namely, both my debate and the position of the HNS club on the financing of political activities can be read from what I say, as I said. So I suggest, we can't be in favour of this bill because it's crawling with a series of contradictions starting with the insurance of extra money in the budget, whether or not we should, whether we should. The proposer wasn't credible in that. Secondly, we suggest, and if the goal is to reduce the money to save, we can agree. But not like this. And according to us, the most logical, fairest thing would be to establish a limit of finance. And I said if you tie to tax revenues in 2018, there's real estate tax, so that's going to increase that item in the budget and the automation of financing. It says the state does not encourage state spending. Economists, macroeconomic experts speak should be encouraged by state spending. Well, I mean, contradictory to the extreme. It is precisely from all the illogicalities arising from the debate and from what the promoter has said that I propose, and this can be done in a business and legal manner, to propose the conclusion of a fixed amount and of course the distribution goes. And for this year to be referred to the procedure to respect this debate, to take advantage of these discussions, proposals from the debates and to pass a far more high-quality law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9696	Thank you. They will answer, in fact the next replica is the esteemed representative Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9697	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague of Batinić, you said, or you suggest in your conclusion that it would be much more logical to present a fixed amount because that is because, given the future of political parties and the assessment of what we are doing by the public, etc. I agree with you in an assessment, a negative assessment of this proposal, for one entirely other reason. This is not about the financing of political parties, but about the future of parliamentary democracy. Is not money here for political parties but how it will work in Parliament. All parliaments of developed countries are developed because MPs in these parliaments have 3 to each adviser. So, talking about us saving on this is simply wrong. We can cancel if you want to finance parties at zero consciousness, but the drive that needs to be here will be far greater than 50 million because simply the state costs and parliamentary democracy costs and the Croatian Parliament will have two of the public assessment until it starts working as it belongs and can't start working if we don't have a number of advisers who will prepare us both laws and committees and all that together. So, we simply talk, we start on the wrong side, we debate for demagogue reasons regardless of one, the other, the third, or which side, and we need to get serious and start talking about key things, which is how to arrange this Parliament so that it can function as it belongs.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9698	Thank you. The esteemed representative Milorad Batinic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9699	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Tudjman, I'm glad we're in agreement, but we've also been in the past synergy about these topics that you've mostly talked about, I think there's always been an agreement. I didn't want to say in the debate that it's populism, that it's demagogy, I said that political shortsightedness, that's exactly what it is. I also suggested that the applicant consider part of the law that defines donations. Because we need to be aware that just donations are a political stain to political parties. No one's independent. We have how much an official can receive a fee, up to 500 kuna, so he doesn't valorize himself as a purchase or I don't know what else? Well, with a proposal like this, we're doing exactly the opposite. We can and agree, can we put an end to it, has given us the goal of general financing of political parties from the budget? On the board, I don't know what exactly, there was also a response based on such proposals, MPs, let's be volunteers. Is that the point? Are we mature democracy, are we mature society? I stand up and for transparency, let's cut donations for transparency. It's mine personally. Let's ban donations to political parties, membership, membership and budget money. I think the vast majority would be pleased with that and that's on the trail of this colleague Tudjman for you to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9700	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ladislav Ilčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9701	Dear counterpart Batinić, I agree with you that credibility is most important, but our credibility is assessed by our voters. And I would like us to send together a message from the Parliament that you and I will not decide on any tax, we will not decide on any policy because the consequences of not knowing the real estate tax will be 0.0000175 or how much, because when you share that money that gets the political parties so for us 150 MPs, that we, so you will be in the House in the next term and I, depending on what kind of work we are going to do. And I'd like to clear that connection. We make decisions that we think are good. I believe you're doing it, I believe I'm doing it too, not because we're going to get 100 or 1000 bills of political parties more or less. So I would remove all these connotations just for the sake of credibility that we as the Croatian Parliament should send to everyone else. And so, I repeat, you're talking about how this law could be better, you're opening up the issue of donations from political parties, etc. And they're all themes, but I'm really starting from that basic position. Today we have one bill of law, we have an option to accept it and reduce money and give citizens a message that we are ready to move from ourselves and take ourselves first and then see that and if we save that we are willing to rationally dispose of state money or not to accept that law. I mean, what Mr. Peja Grbin was saying, it's clear that the ruling would not accept that law that would make the SDP. I mean, you didn't do that either when you were in the ruling majority and let's start now from this first step, prepare, adopt this law and show it together as a Parliament of that message. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9702	Thank you. The esteemed representative Milorad Batinic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9703	Thank you, Mr. President. Oh, mate, in principle, I agree. And you're saying now, let's take off the funding bonding on the spending side and get rid of the tax revenues. Well, that's what I've been saying all along. According to that logic and what I have proposed, I have proposed to the legislator to increase from the procedure because it is simply not good and to propose a fixed amount for this year, whether that is the amount defined in the budget or to suggest it smaller. But if he's already going with a particular proposal, if he wants to send a political message to me in opposition, we could liquefy because it's a bad political message if we go evalorating. So the immature, politically shortsighted, doesn't say anything and let it in the process, to make a far higher bill that will, among other things, be respected by the maker, proposer to abolish donations, or be reduced to some symbolic, that the parties are financed exclusively from the budget and from the membership of their members. That would be fairest, most moral, not like this. Again, what happens in 2018 if there is a real estate tax or a property tax? Well, they're going to say, well, first of all, that means I'm refuting the thesis put forward by the proposer says it's not expenditure, it's income. So we're here in the Parliament that we're making a budget and we're going to have to bring or be in or out. It's either taxes or tax cuts. So that's why the law is illogical. And that's why we're proposing a reasonable solution and we're leaving ourselves room for the end of the year to pass the right law. We are if the state is threatening the deficit, let's go down we've never been against but not in this way because this is demagogy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9704	Thank you. Next, the next replica is the esteemed Vice President of the Parliament of Mr Robert Podlonjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9705	Dear fellow Batinić, first of all, to your complaint, which was sent to me in connection with an emergency procedure. When it comes to the Civil Service Act, the law will refer to several tens of thousands of civil servants. And we think it's correct that they can also be manifested through their unions and other representatives. This Law refers to political parties represented in the Croatian Parliament. So we are all representatives of these parties and so if there is an interested public besides all the citizens who are interested and to reduce party funding we are here to find the best solution. We think we've offered the best solution. Why? All political parties who have proposed any innovation in the way of accounting funds for political parties that have proposed any innovation in the way of calculating funds for political parties have accepted this very way. Therefore, tax revenues achieved during the previous available period. So everybody. You've heard before that it was the first to be proposed by laborists, and now we're proposing it by the law of HSLS and MOST. The same methodology was accepted by the SDP in its law. So if 4 different parties accept the same model, they have a certain logic. We didn't get a better model anywhere with any legal proposals. And finally, as far as the real estate tax is concerned, as far as I'm concerned, it's going to be local income. So he won't refer to the state budget. And any increase would, of course, lead to a change of law that would prevent any greater spending of political parties' funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9706	Thanks will be answered by the esteemed representative Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9707	Mr. President. I will continue to say that your proposal to follow an emergency procedure is not credible with what you say and what you stand for and I know that you are in the spirit of a Democrats. July of the month as you propose with the amendment we can elaborate it in two readings. And supplement, accept to be a fixed amount for this year and for the future. And let's limit it independently to GDP growth, tax revenue growth or expenditure growth. But if you're already going into matter and you're talking about the Civil Service Act, it's about 9, 10,000 people, yes, it's not easy. What do you think this is about? The constitution, political parties, not to say the functioning of democratic and democratic processes. Accept the proposal, accept the amendment, cancel the donations, we'll return the grant. So what do you think of all these affairs that relate to certain political options as to how these people feel? That's terrible. That's terrible. They like it, too. In this way we will restore the dignity and politics to us and membership, regardless of which political option. And what you're saying is that 3, 4 political options agree with that, and you think that's the only thing that's right. So did you have a public discussion about the law? Did you hear the voice of the public? Have you elaborated everything you need in that? So it doesn't mean if certain political options agree on something, in principle that, and we agree, and we agree, 53,000 kuna is too much, we cut to 53 million, we cut to 50 million. That's where you get... but the principled remarks and in the very proposal of the law say that it is not a credible proposal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9708	Thank you very much. Here is the next one, on behalf of the HDZ Club, to speak with distinguished representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9709	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Unfortunately, in Croatia it seems that it is no longer a virtue and quality to admit that you have made a mistake. Because the draft budget came up with an amount which, honestly and honestly, looking at these economic and other moments is not political or realistic, etc. The government also said then that the ruling majority would amend a law that would be within the financial limits of last year. However, listening to the discussion of people who, with great respect, would not want to offend anyone, the figures were not very close, and when you want to conceal a certain truth, then come to what we are essentially coming up with in our debate. Look at your colleagues and colleagues. Someone remembered that it was a major reform procedure from the state treasury to shut down the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and now look what's going on in the state budget. In the State budget of 2014, total expenditures were 125 billion and when you calculate that amount, you reach 62 billion and more. However, in the 2015 budget, you have no more HZZO in the biggest part, you only have that part for clinical hospitals and the rest is out of the budget. And now look for the good Lord, the amount on the spending side is 115 billion kuna. However, none of the colleagues who tried to sell us this kind of mathematics here today wanted to say it, and we even left the old law, and since the data on the implementation of the state budget will be published and that the data of 115 billion is used, that's an amount of about 57.5 billion kuna. However, the essence of this legislative proposal is that the funds for political parties are not determined on the basis of the expenditure incurred but determined on the basis of tax revenues. So that's the essence of this bill. Did one debate go that way today? It's not. Anyway, he's trying to make sure of this and that, it's gonna be one way or the other. The second thing, colleagues and colleagues, was whether the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure could have made any other decision than the one he had made. It's not. Why? Because at this point, the law that says political parties belong to 0.05% of the expenditure party is based on the latest published report in the implementation of the State budget. So the Committee simply brought only what it could bring. But you've had a chance to listen in the last few days to read how someone wanted to read that decision. However, the government is proposing that since 1.7, the proponents apply this law from 1.7, and then data will be published on the implementation of the 2015 budget and will be around 115 billion kuna and the total amount for political parties will be based on 57.5 billion kuna, 50% of which will go to political parties. So somebody's had a chance for four years to change this any way they want. What happened in 2012 compared to 2011? The famous implementation of the 2012 budget was hastening to show how expenditures have been reduced, how this government has reduced the deficit and look if you reduce the deficit to 10 billion kunas then if there has been no increase based on any legal rights and something how that deficit could explode in the coming year to nearly 17, 18 billion kuna, no. But also very interesting when in the last year of your term you want to show how you've reduced expenditure then you're just administratively moving something out of the treasury to another position and see the devil your expenditures are less than 10 billion kuna. So, politically speaking, the ruling majority who prepares Politically looking at the ruling majority is ready to limit some reasonable amount of funding to political parties. [[/Intruder President: Please, colleagues, we can be a little quiet so that fellow Shucker can say what he wants to say. Thank you.]] The second thing, the Law on the financing of political parties has been adopted knows which political option. And look, my colleagues and colleagues, I had the opportunity to be in a situation where some political parties asked for permission to be in charge, but their projection was 15, 16 MPs, and eventually they adopted six seats, so the question is how for 4 years if you only have one third of the MPs from what you projected how you could raise funds, repay credit and function regularly. But that's probably normal, too, because what is, an arrow when it comes to something dishonest, I guess it's only reserved for one political option. I said it and I'll repeat it, it'll be time to see the food chains and someone else but it's not the topic of today's debate. So the HDZ Club will support this bill. We will support this because we believe that in a difficult situation like this it was not logical to increase the resources for political parties to work. I repeat, someone obviously wants to misrepresent the figures because even if we have left almost the same law at the moment when the budget for 2015 is published we come to an amount of 57.5 billion kuna. However, when you look at the expenditure side, then you will see in the expenditures of the state budget you have about 20% of the expenditure that depend exclusively on whether the funds for these expenditures have been provided or not starting from EU funds to specific revenues, etc. The general budget of the state is somewhere around 103 billion kuna. However, it is very interesting that the legislator did not go that way 4 or 5 years ago. If you already want to limit the income of political parties on the basis of expenditure, no matter why you don't stick to the general expenditures, but the ones that are tied up, I say if you make the revenues, you'll have expenses, if you don't make the income, you won't have any expenses. The most honest and logical thing is that these expenditures for political parties are limited to the original tax revenues. However, if I am not mistaken in the programme on the work of this government is also scheduled to go into tax discharge. And it is expected that this amount will not grow in the coming years in some large arithmetical order, as some have said, but will remain at this level due to the reduction of the tax burden on both Croatian citizens and the economy. But also, let's not be sure that this ruling majority in some future times will not propose a new Law on the financing of political parties that will be better quality. And I'd go back to what I started with. Obviously, at this time in Croatia today, it is becoming irrationally more important than rational. Today some values that adorned mankind are no longer worth anything, because today it's a shame to admit a mistake, today there's no value in having the courage to say I'm wrong and I want to make it right in such a way and that way. Also, colleagues and colleagues when you have four years When you have a four-year chance to regulate something, and you don't regulate it, but leave it practically at the same level and then when someone tries to do something, giving it lessons at least isn't correct. [[I'd like to ask my colleagues for some insight towards my colleague Shucker. Let's just keep it down a notch.]] But I'm saying, everyone has their own political rhetoric. But I'm saying I was glad and a little funny to listen to my colleagues playing with numbers, and their numbers are a little bit side-by-side. Then they forget the ones that matter and then catch themselves in a network of inaccuracy. But I repeat to you colleagues and colleagues, the expenditure side of the 2015 budget is not reduced due to some reform procedures but only because the costs of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute are no longer in the State Treasury, but are in the special account of the Croatian Health Insurance Office. And that's the only reason for a 10 billion kuna reduction. So, colleagues and colleagues, we accept the proposal of the Government and the amendment of the motion that this law applies from 1.7. We also accept this bill, and to those who do not have the courage or the courage to propose their non-compliance with this law will clearly show that they do not have the political courage or acknowledge what is rational and just at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9710	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. She is the first to be respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9711	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, fellow Shuker, you spoke in your debate about playing numbers at the SDP club today and keeping quiet what was most important, and that's how they even solved the budget issue. And today we have heard from them about their perfection and how they look at the issue of funding political parties, and they have forgotten that the people have just replaced them because of their perfection because it was made of various lies, they have been blatantly crossing over their marifetteluks and their affairs especially in party finances. If you remember, they were punished twice for failing to submit their party's financial report in time, and they went beyond that in a way that they said we'd change the law, we'd pay the fine. What happened? They changed the law, and they didn't pay the penalty. And then we saw on the inside the party election with them how they ran the finances. There's a lady up there and she says you run the financials like a piece of nostra. And if it all came out, we'd have a lot of problems. So today I say we just listen to them, they teach everyone lessons, and they weren't able to run their finances the way the law requires.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9712	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9713	Thank you very much. My fellow Boric, therefore, I began my discussion that some of the values of human beings that adorned mankind in the past were no longer worth anything. So did the latest report of the State Audition, which all political parties received unconditional opinion, but also some parties received unconditional opinion even though they did not do what they needed to do. However, if they wanted to reduce funding for their political action, they could have done so in the past four years. This whole HZZO-separation thing, while not changing other laws directly related to HZZO, but regarding some other laws, it's nothing more than a cowardly political egg. And therefore, fellow Boric it is good to pass such a law, it is good to think about a new Law on the financing of political parties. And I recommend the State Audit to look a little bit at how and from which the funds are repaying the loans of some who are in charge of the political campaign.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9714	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the distinguished representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9715	Thank you very much. Mr. Shuker, in your debate, there was more mention of what was going on than what was going to happen. And when you said you weren't going to support this law, you were going to write a better one, you had a chance to write a lot of better laws during your term. And I'm going to tell you honestly about taking credit to fund the campaign it's a much more transparent way of financing the campaign than it did in 2007. We'll probably agree to that, you and I. Oh, no? As the 2007 campaign was financed, HDZ never repeated itself in Croatia. So as far as the loan is concerned, if some parties take the loan, they have a mortgage, whether they get 15 or 30 MPs, it has nothing to do with the relationship. So it's always better to have a more transparent source than a non-transparent source and I think the credit is a transparent source. As for the increase or reduction, at this point absolutely always the thesis that funds should be reduced for political parties because the situation in the country is what it is. This should lead to a broad public debate on whether it is in the interest of Croatian citizens to essentially ban private money in political parties. So, do citizens have greater confidence in a party that, along with its sponsor, has raised 12 million kunas for donations during this past election campaign or one that has raised less than a million kunas. What's better? In whom should citizens have greater confidence? Who do citizens need to believe more that they will protect their public interest? To those whom privates gave 12 million kunas or those who received less than a million kunas? I always advocate as much funding as possible from public sources.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9716	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9717	If you'd listened to my debate in full, and if you hadn't yelled there, most of your replica would have had no place at all because I made it clear about the loan, but you obviously didn't hear what was important. Therefore, I have no intention of answering. I said all the food chains will eventually come out, all the food chains. And about that, and I won't be so maligned, who and what he used the party register for when he was in position.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9718	Thank you very much. And with that, we've exhausted the replicas and this point at this stage. We didn't finish the point, of course. Then we will proceed, of course, with the agenda as scheduled without a vote. Next we'll continue the debate. So on behalf of the Club of Representatives HSLS and Gordana Rusak will speak the distinguished representative Gordana Rusak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9720	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9721	Please colleagues and colleagues, I ask you nicely please calm down so that colleague Rusak can say what he wants to say on behalf of his club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9722	Here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to give up the debate as extensively as I thought I would, so I'm just going to say it in one or two sentences, so much I'm asking you for patience. So coming here to the assembly I was convinced that today we would show unity both to the left and to the right and those who felt neither left nor right, but the game of numbers, manipulations began right at the beginning. So I'll just remind the history of how these changes took place in the Law on the financing of political parties. You remember this year in the budget who knows what time science had to be a loser. Not the first time, maybe not the last time, but it was supposed to be a loser and political parties were supposed to be winners. We have therefore proposed a law which would be removed from one item, from the item... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9723	I'm really asking you to let your colleague say what she wants.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9724	So he would remove himself from an item funded by political parties and transfer to the Croatian Foundation for Science. It's a simple seizing operation in one item, additions to another item and all the assurances that we didn't reduce something but that we increased menus are illogical. I don't know how we can take something somewhere without it being a minus and subtracting sign. It could be said that I am a demagogue in this situation because I am the person who left the party and on the basis of my mandate the party won will have at its disposal more than a million kunas of political action regardless of the law, and I will have to pay for my political action on my own. Maybe in that sense I'm demagogue because it's none of my business, it's none of my business in the sense that I swear I won't get out of that budget for my political action.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9725	My colleagues and colleagues, it's rude to my colleague what you're doing. I beg you if you do not want to listen to what she says go out as they did from the opposition if you consider it unnecessary to sit here and listen.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9726	Thank you very much, Mr. President, here's what I'll do. So the money for my political action remains the foreigners of HRID, I have neither the kuna nor the benefits, you can consider me a demagogue when I represent this opinion that we need to reduce the financing of political parties, but I believe that this is precisely why I have the moral right to say that political parties must suffer the fate of this people if the whole country is not going well, they cannot be rewarded for their work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9727	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is that of the distinguished representative Ivan Vilibor Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9728	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Here at this moment after this vote, you need to step on the ball a little bit and get back to the previous topic. I wanted to say first of all that I don't see any serious reform in this. This is actually an attempt to camuflate somehow reducing the increase. Not only will the same amount of money remain at this level, but the government also acknowledged that the growth of tax revenues is expected in the coming years. We remember the projections of the budget, and when the real estate tax is introduced, the situation will be even worse. It will turn out to be fine Croatian houses, Croatian homes to be given to political parties. Also, what I said earlier if you want to cut already because of the finances, well 50 million is not some amount of 130 billion Croatian budget. But if you want to do it, then do it by sending a message, sending a message, a clear message, that we're going to take political parties, that we're going to give education, science, innovations like I, as a representative, donate some kind of innovation and patents. I don't brag about it, but I'm doing it. So we need to send a clear political message, we're going to focus from politics, from party, that and that very same symbolic place we're going to give that money where it's needed. If we know what, the reports we've heard in recent days, here from a colleague yesterday that Croatia doesn't know, if I remember 141 places of 148 in the UN survey if we can attract scientists from other countries, if we know that more is given to the Court's fleet than to research and development that we talked about in the budget debate, if we know that we have big problems with paying off a scholarship, if I probably also get letters from parents whose children are participants in the robotic competition that there's no means for these kids to leave. I've personally contacted the robotic alliance, 31. This month is the deadline until these funds have to be paid. And when you take all that to one place a very bad message is sent from this convocation of the Parliament, from this government, because there are priorities in the country. So this smudge 5 million up, down, every year there's no message, no significant financial savings. And in that sense, I will not support this law. If we take the context in which all this is brought, which is the context of removing several companies from the list of strategic and company of particular importance, if we know that this was done at a speed at a telephone session as if it were some irrelevant piece of junk, I don't know that the companies that have been building Croatian citizens for generations as long as they don't even need to give them a real analysis or a real public debate or even having them sit together and decide what they're going to do with it. If we know that all this is happening in this context in which it is happening, then I am sending my clear message, and I have submitted the amendment because I believe that a clear message should be sent. At this hour, the focus ends on the parties, we all set ourselves together, let's give attention to those who create and not give attention to a policy that is very often perceived by cheating in the people. Here I was going to talk about what kind of political system we live in because the parties are directly connected to this political system, which is something that I would like to compare with feudalism where, in one way or another, the more the individual family wants to connect with the parties, without them, you can't get to work, without them, you can't do documents on time, without them you can't do without a favourable loan and the one who doesn't like it, let him leave the country. And here's the law, and it's sending a message that doesn't like it this way, so let's get out of the country. So either we're going to make a concrete reform of the entire political system and this is just one part of it or we better not do it at all. Like I said before this whole debate seems pointless. Now someone's gonna say it's some big money. No, they're not. That's so much, I invite you all to, in the spirit of this system of values that I've now tried to declare, this facility that I'm trying to promote so that you can at least refrain from my amendment if the party bosses don't allow you to be in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9729	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Gordana Rusak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9730	Comrade Sincic, whatever you say the fact is next. On the basis of this amendment, the Croatian Foundation for Science received 8 million kunas. Is it a lot? It's not. Is it smaller? Yes, it is. But without those 8 million kunas, there would be no new research project in Croatia at this time. Is that worth the effort? Yes, it is. Is that some small step for the better? Yes, it is. Whatever you say, you can deny those facts but they're what I put out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9731	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Sincic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9732	Thank you, colleagues. If you remember yet from the debate on the budget, I would certainly support your amendment to be taken to the parties and given to the research, I just wanted to point out that this is not enough and that we need to send a much clearer message. That's the deficit the prime minister showed. He showed no inspiration. So now a radical turn, now a change in the system of values, no but unfortunately we have seen a continuation of the trend of past governments, which is four important things: the reduction of rights, the rise in taxes, the sale of assets and borrowing. On several occasions, this government has committed itself significantly without questioning the significant policies of the National Bank. There are reductions in the right to state only that retirement of 67 years, tax hikes are announced, I will only state the real estate tax and announce this 4th point that I have mentioned the sale of assets which is current these days. I say, we need a radical turn, not a business assuall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9733	Thank you very much. And now the closing word on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club will have a distinguished representative, Miroslav Simic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9734	President-in-Office of the Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. So here's the end of all the debates I want to thank on behalf of our club all those who have supported this proposal, who have participated with us in the creation of this proposal. It is interesting that those who oppose this proposal today, who are also opposed to the proposals on the corrections of the salaries of parliamentarians, when we go with proposals, then call us for demagogy. I think this is very specific, that there is no demagogy here, that political parties here show that they are ready to bear part of the burden in a recession that is everywhere in society. And I think it's a perfectly logical move. It was a question of why we tied this proposal to income, why it was not cost-effective even though colleagues had already explained it. And I think it's natural to be, so to speak, paid and political parties rewarded by quotes on how much we earn and not how much we spend. It is true that some colleagues in the constituencies tried a year ago, or suggested, but did not pass a bill like that. And here I am pleased to see that, according to the presentations of club representatives, we could still have a majority here to adopt such a proposal. As for the other fundamental changes that colleagues have been calling for, here we are in front of the MOST Club, we can say that we are interested in every good proposal. This is what we're looking for and we suggested that it go into emergency procedure because we want it to apply to the other half of the year and all of those good ideas that can help the political parties to function more transparently will support the Most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9735	Thank you very much. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9736	Thank you very much. Here's a colleague from my club, I know you've put a lot of effort not only in this, but also in the amendments to the Law of Salutaries' Payments, I expect it to come out quickly. Otherwise, I'm monitoring the presentations here and former colleagues before you, so let me see those who were nominated for political work received funds to complain in his parties about the spending of such political resources, many in numerous campaigns for MPs, for the presidential elections, promised that these funds would be invested for a number of humanitarian purposes. However, it is best to limit that money legally and to remain in the state budget and the institutions can distribute that money wherever it is necessary and there has been a lot of populism and deception and peoples exclusively over these stories. So there should be support for the reduction that has already been proposed by colleagues from Labour now, there is the MOST, there is that most of both HSLS and many of the many MPs and that this is regulated legally, therefore it is positive rather than purely populistly stressed until funds are received at the expense and when these funds... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9737	Thank you very much. Before we part, the session will be held next week on Wednesday 18 May and we will begin with the report by the Ombudsman for 2015. I also ask that today those who are here, unfortunately many have gone to clean up a bit to say the tables because a general rehearsal session is planned. The Civil Service has asked us to put these young people, who, simulated work of the Parliament, so please, put it below, not to leave things worse because young colleagues will come to simulate the session of the Assembly, and then I would ask you not to leave the papers upstairs and personal things as well to take. Here, I'll see you on Wednesday, May 18th. Thank you. Session interrupted at 13.00 hours. Finally, the final proposal of the Law amending the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.21. Proposers are the Club of Representatives of the Croatian-Social Liberal Party, the Block of Retired Together and Independent Representatives Gordana Rusak, the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists. The debate is closed. During the debate, the applicant submitted an amendment in accordance with Article 202. The rules of procedure become an integral part of the final draft law. The amendment was also submitted by representative Ivan Vilibor Sincic. The Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System have proposed to the Assembly the adoption of the next conclusion on the draft Act amending the Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions, with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.21 will be held in the first reading. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final proposal for this law. Does the Proposer want to show himself about this? No, I don't. in accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am then voting on the proposal of this conclusion. Who's for please? 118 votes for, 1 abstention and 7 against. Therefore, I find that most votes have reached the conclusion that it is proposed. That would end the vote for today
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9740	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9741	For each report, of course, we will open the debate and put it to the vote separately.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9742	Proposal for a decision on the appointment of the State Commission for the assessment of damages from natural disasters. In the State Commission for the Assessment of damages from the elementary disasters of the MPs is named President Ljubica Ambrusec. For members of Stjepan Pintarić, Pero Ćosić, Davor Vlaović, Shandor Juhas, Tihomir Jakavina, Anka Mrak-Taritaš.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9743	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision of the Committee on Appointments and Administrative Affairs. Please vote who's in favour of this proposal? The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. 105 votes for, not one abstention, not one against. Thank you very much. Please, next.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9744	Proposal for a decision to appoint a president and a member of the National Council for Water. For the president of the National Council for Water of the Order of Representatives, Franjo Lucic is named. For the members of the National Council for Waters of the Order of Representatives is named Antun Vidaković, Davor Vlaović, Ružica Vukovac, Radimir Cačić, Igor Dragovan, Milorad Batinić and Nansi Tyreli.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9745	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the Proposal for a Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. Who's up for this proposal? I'm asking for a result. 101 votes for, 1 abstention and 1 against. I find that most votes have been decided by the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs. Please, next.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9746	Proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Stocker's Board. For members of the Committee for Stocks they are selected from the order of representatives of the Croatian Parliament Marija Budimir, Pero Ćorić and Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9747	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the Proposal for a Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. Please vote for this proposal? The result is 106 for, not one against, not one abstention. I find that a decision has been unanimously taken as proposed by the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. Please move on, next.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9748	Proposal for a decision on the selection of 3 members of the Island Council. For members of the Island Council, they are selected from the ranks of Croatian Parliament MP Branko Bačić, Josip Boris, Ivan Klarin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9749	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the Proposal for a Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. Please, who's in favor of the proposal? I'm asking for a result. I find 101 votes for, one abstention and one against. So most votes were decided as proposed by the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs. Please, next.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9750	Proposal for a Decision selecting a member of the Supervisory Board of the Financial Agency. As a member of the Supervisory Board of the Financial Agency, Dr. Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9751	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting in favour of the proposal for a Decision of the Committee on Selection, Appointing, Administrative Affairs. Please vote? Who's up for the proposal? I'm asking for a result. 106 votes in favour, none against or abstention. I find that a unanimous decision has been made as proposed by the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. Please, next.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9752	Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Public Institution Council to mention the Jasenovac area. As a member of the Public Institution Council, the memory of the Jasenovac area is named Antun Vidaković, representative in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9753	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal of the Committee on Selection, Designation, Administrative Affairs. Please, who's in favour of this proposal? I'm asking for a result. 102 votes for, 1 abstention, none against. I find that most votes have been decided by the Committee on Elections, Appointing, Administrative Affairs. Please, next.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9754	Proposal for a Decision on the selection of the Election Committee of the National Group of the Croatian Parliament at the Interparliamentary Union. In the Executive Board of the National Group of the Croatian Parliament at the Interparliamentary Union they are elected President Tanja Vrbat Grgić, Vice-President Jasna Matulić, for members Ivan Šipić, Ljubica Maksimčuk, dr. Gordana Rusak, Dr. Vesna Pusic and Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9755	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting in favour of the proposal for a Decision of the Committee on Selection, Appointing, Administrative Affairs. Please, who's in? I'm asking for a result. 101 votes in favour, none against nor abstention. I find that a unanimous decision has been made as proposed by the Committee on Selection, Appointing, Administrative Affairs. Please, next.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9756	Proposal for a Decision appointing the delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean is proposed for the host Sanja Putica, for members Petar Škorić, Ivan Klarin, for deputy members Ivan Kirin, Ljubica Ambrusec and others. Željko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9757	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting in favour of the proposal for a Decision of the Committee on Selection, Appointing, Administrative Affairs. Please, who's in? I'm asking for a result. 104 votes in favour, none against nor abstention. I find that a unanimous decision has been made as proposed by the Committee on Selection, Appointing, Administrative Affairs. Please, next.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9758	Proposal for a Decision appointing the delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the parliamentary dimension of the Central European Initiative. The delegation is proposed for the leader Radimir Cacic, for members Zarko Tušek, Damir Mateljan and for the deputy members Robert Podolnjak and Mihael Zmajlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9759	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting in favour of the proposal for a Decision of the Committee on Selection, Appointing, Administrative Affairs. Who's in, please? The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. 106 votes in favour, none against any abstentions. I find that a unanimous decision has been made as proposed by the Committee on Selection, Appointing, Administrative Affairs. Please, next.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9760	Proposal for a Decision appointing two members of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the Union Parliamentary Assembly for the Mediterranean. The delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean is named Josip Bilaver and Sabina Glasovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9761	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal of the Committee on Selection, Designation, Administrative Affairs. Please, who's in? I'm asking for a result. 102 votes in favour, none against nor abstention. I find that a unanimous decision has been made as proposed by the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. And finally as your last suggestion, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9762	Proposal for a Decision appointing the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the SEC Parliamentary Assembly. He is named leader Lucijan Vukelić, as members of Dr. Ines Strenja-Linić, Vedran Babića for the deputy members Nada Murganic, Dario Hrebak and Predrag Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9763	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting in favour of the proposal for a Decision of the Committee on Selection, Appointing, Administrative Affairs. Please vote, who's in favour? I'm asking for a result. 104 votes in favour, none against any abstention. I find that a unanimous decision has been made as proposed by the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. We now proceed with choice, appointments and resolutions. But before we move on to that, since our three colleagues who have been elected in seven days will have to be replaced. The seat of the Mandate-Immunity Commission will be held immediately after completion of the hall "Ivan Mažuranic" No. 84. ... Right now, yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yeah, right now. There's enough of us, the quorum is here, so we'll be able to vote the rest of the points. So, we move on to the point - Selection, appointment and resolution; here you are, dear colleague Željko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9765	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I would like to take offense because 100 days after a tender has been launched for members of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Management Strategy, we do not have a choice today of those 6 people and without them, the National Council for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy cannot work because the external members represent the majority. And we see on a daily basis that there are topics that concern the very responsibility of this council, and I therefore ask that you, as President of the Parliament, influence the Committee on Selection and Appointing that we have this item on the agenda as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9766	Thank you very much. There is also the chairman of the board he will surely take note of it. I ask the chairman of the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of Mr Franjo Lucic to submit a report. Here you go, Mr. President of the Board.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9767	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament The Committee for the Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament shall submit a proposal to the Croatian Parliament for a decision on the resolution and selection of the Vice-President of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament. Proposal for a decision on the resolution of members and the selection of members of the Committee on Family, Youth, Sports of the Croatian Parliament. Proposal for a decision on the resolution of a member and the selection of members of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament. Proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of members of the National Council for Water and a proposal for a decision on the appointment of the president and termination of the term of office of the Chairman of the Committee of Awards Ivan Filipovic. These proposals for a decision of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament were set at the 7th session held on 3 June 2016. We therefore move to the first item of the agenda, so the proposal for a decision on the resolution and election of the Vice-President of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament. The Vice-President of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament Miroslav Šimić is hereby dismissed and Dr Ivan Kovačić is elected as vice-president of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9768	I'm asking you, I'm opening a debate on this. There's no one here. I'm closing the debate. Please join the vote. Who is the proposal for a decision on the resolution and election of the Vice-President of the Committee on Tourism of the Croatian Parliament as proposed? Please vote. I'm asking for a result. 120 for, 1 abstention, no one against. So the decision was taken. Please next.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9769	Proposal for a decision on the resolution of members and the selection of members of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament Ranko Ostojić is dismissed and Sandra Krpan is elected as a member of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9770	I'm closing the motion debate. There's no one here. I'm closing the debate. Please join the vote. Who's in favour of the committee's proposal? I'm asking for a result. 127 for, 1 abstention and 1 against. I find that most votes accept the motion for a decision as proposed. Please, next.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9771	Proposal for a decision on the resolution of a member and the selection of members of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament, Sandra Jakelić, is dismissed and Marjan Kustic is elected as a member of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9772	I'm opening a debate. There's no one here. I'm closing the debate. Please join the vote. Who's in favour of the committee's proposal? The vote is over. 122 for, neither against, nor with any abstention, therefore the proposal for a decision of the Committee was unanimously accepted. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9773	Proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of members of the National Council for Water. Members of the National Council for Water shall be authorised. From the ranks of prominent scientists and experts in the field of water management and related areas: Mio Djolan, Marijan Jurić, Mladen Marić. For members of the National Water Council are appointed from the ranks of prominent scientists and experts in the water management area and related areas: Dr Neven Kuspilić, Dr Lidija Tadic and Bozo Vuleta.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9774	I'm opening a debate. Here's your esteemed representative, Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9775	Your Honor, Mr. President, can we get information from the promoter on what logic the former Guardian of the Franciscan monastery in Sinj is an expert on the issue of water? And is that the personnel policy calling for a professional rather than a political choice that MOST colleagues just declared?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9776	I'm asking you first to calm down. I'm asking you to calm down first. For a debate I haven't opened yet, you've already called, but now I'm going to open it. I'm asking you first to stick to the Rules of Procedure. So it's known that we've discussed every wheel so far, so we'll do it from now on. So, colleague Beus Richembergh, you've been here long enough to wait for the hearing. You said everything okay, but there are others who are now coming forward as part of the debate I opened. So the esteemed representative of Kovačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9777	So here's what the MOST was called, even though I'm not president of the club, I have to admit that we didn't discuss Mr. Vuleta either. However, if it is proposed, we will vote for it. Maybe he's not an expert, but other colleagues, what you've been doing so far, at least he's not a thief.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9778	Dear Representative Šipic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9779	So here's my apologies, so the breach of the Rules of Procedure. So we should know before you comment on 232, if it isn't, then it's 238, you're reporting anyway. So you'd have to know that fra God Vuleta, Fr. God Vuleta is not... The Guardian or any name that you have, of course, is unknown to you, but Fr. God Vuleta is therefore a university, not a university, but a professor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Catholic-Godology college, by the way, English, among other things, a great fan of nature. He's been working for years, so he's been doing environmental protection for years, he points out environmental issues, and he's not here by accident. Therefore, he lives in Split in the monastery of Our Lady of Health, to explain a little to you, and he is not a Guardian in the monastery of Lady Sinjska. So before you get... And this is how you call a man I don't think he's... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And ex, which is something else ex-girlfriend, but you need to know what he's dealing with right now. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But you need to know what he's been dealing with for years when you doubt everything and call it all They're driving your Mercedes very well. [[Intruder: Can we let our colleagues finish?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9780	Now the esteemed representative Ilcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9781	Thank you for your opportunity.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9782	Please, are we going to listen to what our colleagues are trying to say or do we not care what anyone says anyway? ... Well, I know it doesn't matter to some people, but I suggest they leave the gym if they don't like it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go, colleague Ilcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9783	A mockery that I see on the faces of some when a priest is proposed to a body regardless of what a man is, just to supplement Mr. Šipić who has published several books on environmental protection, which has been an environmental and water protection concern for years and which is a professional one. And I see his candidacy in this body by his expertise. And that scheme that the Church or priests can't be professional in something I hope belongs to some past times.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9784	Thank you very much. The Honorable Representative of Stipe Petrina.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9785	I thank the President of the Parliament. I agree that it should be a Guardian, he is an expert in holy water, and the holy waters will take a great deal to drive the Satans out of this House, from the government, out of Croatia's political life, so I will support it. That's why I'm gonna support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9786	My colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to maintain the dignity of this House. And even though someone thinks he's so funny, it can hurt someone else. So I'm asking you all to stick to the fact that some of our statements can hurt others in a way. We have different beliefs, we have different attitudes, that's why we're here to talk to each other, but to talk at some level. And while I'm here, I'm gonna maintain that level. Everything below that level is a shame not only for those who say it but for all of us. Here you go, buddy Bull, you wanted to.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9787	A colleague here is also a violation of Rule 28 of the Rules of Procedure because it is about a subject that does not matter in essence because many lies have also been made. So, first of all, frah. Božo Vuleta is not the Guardian of the Monster Lady of Sinj. The second Fr. God Vuleta's been doing environmental work for many years, he's got a number of his work. Thus, it can only bother someone who is a priest that is not good for us to share people in this way. We're talking about a man who doesn't mean the Guardian of the Wonder Lady of Sinj who used to be but a man is a professor and deals with his knowledge at the study he teaches. There's just so much to make things right and say that this debate doesn't lead to anything good in this way. Label people in a way they shouldn't be in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9788	Thank you. That concludes the debate. And please... And I'm sorry, I didn't see. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here's a colleague of Vrdoljak's on the same page. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9789	Thank you very much, President. So just as my colleague Bulj said, don't label it. And independently, we asked a legitimate question, explain the expertise, in publishing the author of the book “This Wonderful World of God,” I respect, read, is not a problem. Maybe he's dealing with it, maybe he's an expert. But the thing that hurt me the most and that's my colleague Kovac. It's a colleague of the Kovac. That's embarrassing. Here come the Parliament, in front of its 150 colleagues and say unlike you he's not a thief. You have to imagine what you said to everyone sitting around you because this is the Croatian Parliament. And let's understand what responsibility you're carrying when you came to the election. How you run the government and how you talk in the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9790	Okay. I'd like to finish this debate, which went into one completely wrong, and we're done, and we're done with the debate. The debate is over. And I put on the vote of the motion for a decision on the resolution and appointment of members of the National Council for Water. Would you please vote for the proposal? The vote is over. 99 votes for, 13 abstentions, 21 against. I note that most of the votes were accepted by the Committee's proposal for a decision as proposed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9791	The proposal for a decision on the appointment of the president and termination of the term of office of the Committee President Ivan Filipović as Chairman of the Committee of the Awards Ivan Filipović is appointed Dr Gordana Rusak, Chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament, Professor Valter Bolunčić, so far Chairman of the Committee of the Awards Ivan Filipović, the president's term of office ended on 28 December 2015.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9792	I'm opening a debate. Here's the esteemed Željko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9793	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I would ask, given the great protest that took place today, that we have the agenda item on the basis of the protestor's request that this item be removed from the agenda, because Professor Russia does not deserve to be at the head of this committee awarding the protest workers based on everything she has said.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9794	Okay. That's your point of view, of course. I do, there's someone else who wants to participate in the debate. Dear Representative Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9795	As well as counterpart Jovanovic, on behalf of all those protesters who were in large numbers yesterday and among them, educational workers opposed the idea of stopping or rerouting the curriculative reform, which was favoured openly by Mrs and colleague Rusak as chairman of the committee in charge of the Assembly by adopting conclusions that caused the entire public storm and which caused immediate resignations of members of the expert working group. We ask that this appointment be taken off the agenda and proposed by another person who will not be resilient to the protest workers because it is a specific prize, a reward that is awarded to just the protest workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9796	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Hrebak, Dario Hrebak, has come forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9797	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We said we weren't going to politicize about curricular reform. We all know that the board's conclusions are not binding. I think we have spent enough time both professional public and politicians, unfortunately most politicians related to curricular reform. Mrs. Rusak's stance today has sent clear and unequivocal support to curricular reform. The position of the HSLS if you want to, the position of the Patriot coalition that curricular reform must continue. What do we say about that? That the board should only vote the way someone else wants. That the board should not make any conclusions at all. Therefore, support for curricula reform is not at all controversial and is at least affected by Mrs Gordana Rusak. Dear colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, I emphasize my colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday we also had a debate on gender equality. Mr. Richembergh accuse, speak of the influence of Mrs. Rusak, you said if I remember correctly one word you used. I don't think that's correct. So, at least Mrs. Rusak is responsible for all this. If you want to see 40,000 people on behalf of both the Patriot coalition and HSLS, you want to see the curricula reform exactly as Mr. Jokic wanted it to be. And the conclusions, and I think the board can also draw conclusions that are not binding. Thank you very much, and once again, please support Mrs. Rusak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9798	Thank you. Dear Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9799	I'd like to ask you, Mr. President. Indeed, discussions are open regularly over violations of the Rules of Procedure. We've often done this mostly rulebook since 238 and beyond. All articles are broken because an example of reform in curricula is being discussed. The fact that there is a problem but the fact that we are here voting on people who are or have not influenced there but the fact that those who are 4 years or previous years absolutely did nothing to complete the reforms from where they are entitled in this way impose some kind of public attitude as if they were the only God to give that, I would ask you to calm down your colleagues, God give, we are all for reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9800	Come on, please, let's just calm down so fellow Bull can say what he wants to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9801	I'd just like to stick to the rules of procedure, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9802	I say again, if we strictly stick to the rules of procedure, probably none of you could speak. However, Parliamentism is up to one limit. Of course, that limit always exists and I will always make it very clear. Dear Representative Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9803	I'll stick to the rules of procedure. In fact, this claim is incorrect, which was said that Mrs Rusak is against reform, or curricular reform, and it is simply false because it is the Committee's conclusion that she supports the reform. This is the first paragraph but also the point that those remarks must be accepted, i.e. to find a way to incorporate all those observations which are made in public debate by the profession. Therefore, this is simply a disqualification without, unfounded by the facts and therefore needs to be supported by this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9804	Thank you very much. I would therefore conclude the debate and vote on the motion for a decision to appoint the president and end the term of office of the Chairman of the Committee of Awards Ivan Filipovic. Who's in favour of the motion for a decision? I'm asking for a result. 77 for, 7 abstentions, 46 against. I find that most votes have taken a decision as suggested by the board. We would now move to - Selection, appointments and resolutions of the President of the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of Mr Franjo Lucic to submit a report. Here you go, Mr. President of the Board.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9806	Proposal for a Decision on the selection of members and termination of the term of office of members of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament for members of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament are elected: Tomislav Saucha and Dragica Zgrebec. On 2 June 2016, members of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting because of the rest of the parliamentary term, Ingrid Antičević Marinović and Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-13-0.u9807	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting in favour of the proposal for a Decision of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. Please vote who's in favour of that decision? I'm asking for a result. 129 for, none against, none restrained. I find that a decision has been unanimously taken as proposed by the Committee on Designation and Administrative Affairs. Good morning, colleagues and colleagues! I'm asking you to take our seats and we can start working. I see that the distinguished representative Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic appears and I see that the distinguished representative Silvano Hrelja and the esteemed representative Shandor Juhas appears. Here you are, with which in connection the distinguished MPs of the Petriavchanin. Here you go.
