ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-20-0.u7371	Good morning, that is, good day, dear colleagues and colleagues! Before we begin with the agenda I would like to remind you that both the Croatian Parliament and the entire Croatia today on June 20th marks as the Day of Remembrance of Stjepan Radic and the June victims. Namely, on 20 June 1928, in the Belgrade Assembly as an exponent of the Serbian politics, Puniša Račić killed Pavel Radic and Djur Basariček, mortally wounded Stjepan Radic and wounded Ivan Pernar and Ivan Grandž representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party. Stjepan Radic died just over a month after that wound. I invite all representatives in the Croatian Parliament to honor Stjepan Radić and other victims of this tragic event for a minute of silence. - A minute of silence - glory to them! Now, of course, we'd move on to that point. - Proposal for a Decision on the Disbandment of the Croatian Parliament Would the proposing representatives like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Here you are, dear representative of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-20-0.u12031	President, the item that was included in the agenda and which, we wanted to ask for a break to agree on the date of the release. ... But we'll do it in consultation. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-20-0.u12032	Okay, I guess there's a consensus, so I'm opening up a debate. On behalf of the HRID Club I see one application, the distinguished representative Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-20-0.u12033	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues in these few months of working in the Assembly, the basic principle of our actions was truth and justice. And it is obvious that in this social and political glimmer in which Croatia unfortunately has currently submerged normal things that should not be. A person may have political abuses of fat people as the Bible, and he may continue to walk sovereignly on a political scene. What did the Croatian Parliament focus on in the eyes of the public? The credibility of the Parliament has been collapsing for years, it's come so low that it's singing about it as a bunch of morons, it's written that Disneyland is, and we all know who's to blame for it. I was part of something that filled me with pride at the same time, but unfortunately partly and shame. How many people believe in the highest institutions of the state in the judiciary and others, when the main constant of politics is that politicians have become their own purpose, and corruption is a general phenomenon. So how could you not buy the collective frustration of the people? Our club was against the election of constitutional judges who are members of political parties or who did not deserve that high office by their professional work. We were also against the pressure on independent bodies such as the Council for Electronic Media or the Advocate General. Today's collective frustration and the escalation of violence that we are witnessing has contributed most to politics. Unfortunately, some have declared themselves to be the only authorised patriots, and the criterion is, of course, depraved. Is patriots, colleagues and colleagues one who deals with history and talks about patriotism or is it fellow patriots and fellow patriots who advocates works for better Croatia, for a better position for Croatia and for the preservation of natural resources? But on the other hand, if you were to make any objections at the expense of the largest opposition party and coalition partners, you would also be assured of the label of not modern, not to say screwed or right. So colleagues and colleagues, are we left or right if we love Croatia but we're not radical and we don't hate anyone? Are we left or right if we do our job fairly and don't collect political points on ideology or muddying others? Are we left or right if you can't buy us with a bag of money and we're consistent with our principles? Not colleagues and colleagues, it's not demagogy because demagogy is when you say something you don't believe in. One thing is said, and the other is done, and that is for the people the most dangerous talk. How is it that national interests are highlighted while not being sold transparently at the same time as the previous governments? No matter how complicated the state has not shown itself to be, for example, the state has to sell its shares explicitly. The rest of the Concar? It's just that by selling this last 20% stake package, only one process has been completed, and this is the final surrender of Končar. According to the stock exchange and... society, shares are owned by some custody accounts, but we don't know the names, but we can assume who's behind them. Mr. President, can you secure peace in the assembly?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-20-0.u12034	My colleagues and colleagues, please allow a colleague of Petrijevcanin Vukasnović to say what she was going to say, please?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-20-0.u12035	Thank you very much. It's hard to outvote. The government was doing nothing, it was talking about the importance of education, and then the job of reform got hitched. There was talk of patriotism and history, and now we see that the crisis of society has culminated, so we also suffer international shame. The work of associations was disabled, especially what hurt me was the work of children’s associations and associations for people with disabilities who are doing the work of the state anyway. So there was talk of reforms, it turns out that the biggest reform to be implemented was HDZ reform. What about the economic programme of the INFO Institute that was so mentioned before the election? I expect to start talking about the so-called now. agreeing to the reform lists because the pre-election campaign has started. In the end, why were we in favor of disbanding the Parliament? Well, because his work was paralyzed and that's the fairest thing. Thank you to all the citizens who have come to us in the last few months. We planned to encourage some changes to individual laws in agreement with colleagues who would be to help primarily children and disabled people, suffering from rarer syndromes and, in general, those who are socially at risk, thus contributing to a more socially fair society. And let me say a few more words. We all know that HRID grew up from the association, it is known that in the previous elections we carried the entire first electoral unit in agreement with the Most Independent Lists and everyone also knows well, the entire Croatian public that was after the elections. There were talks and negotiations, several of them both by taverns and restaurants and by apartments, and by midnight in the government. But only one was thrown out by a public mockery, while some were not thrown out at the same time, they became ministers. It is my personal opinion, but today I find it hypocritical because together we had principles that we had not given up in these few months of working in the Parliament. And we haven't given up on those principles for a moment. And half a year ago, I spoke exactly the way I do now, and I'm going to keep talking, even if we never step into this Parliament again. And in the end, it is now seen more clearly than ever in Croatian politics that progress has personal interests, great ego and god-awful concern for Croatian citizens, but true concerns are very few. And it really is chronically lacking in those who view politics as a tool for a better society rather than for their own interests. Well, Croatia is practically in front of bankruptcy even if no one wants to say it. And we've reached the limit of tolerable. And it is clear to everyone that politics can no longer be a purpose to itself. Politics can't be enough for itself. The only hope is that politics connects with the scientific and civil community and brings out so-called better governance. There must be a broader dialogue. But colleagues and colleagues talk about dialogue today and there is no real dialogue with the results of a better society for the cure, and after all, I hope that catharsis will happen and, finally, the last one dies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-20-0.u12036	Thank you very much. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Željko Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-20-0.u12037	Dear President of the Parliament. My colleagues, I don't know who's watching this, who wouldn't immediately sign what the young lady said here. But at the same time I think we should tell people not what they'd like to hear, which everyone would like to hear rather than know. What are the roots of our problems, of all problems? Why are they excluded from the diaspora and totally from economic social development? Why have Syrian refugees greater rights in Canada than the Croat who returned to his homeland yesterday. Why it takes three years for someone to get a citizenship who was born out there plus has to pass the test and the last stop is the MUP on the Blackbeard. Why did the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia write to us a man from the former Udba, so is the Udje of this head on the right? Why are Slovenia and Croatia the only countries under communist rule in Europe that have not implemented illustration laws, why? We're surprised, too. Why did we get a country that looks more like Venezuela now than a modern, just state? Because all the characteristics we had in '89 are happening today and we're afraid of one word and that word is analytical. What are the roots of our problems? Same frames, same metal band. We've got two problems. The first is ethical moral and how you can have in the Constitutional Court people who condemned people to ZERF, verbal delinquents, etc. You have an article 133 again, some kind of hate speech. Whoever accuses Croatia of Fascising, Ustashaking, whose associations, whoever draws money out of the state budget and who has arrested himself, some sit here longer than Queen Victoria and what they have done, absolutely nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-20-0.u12038	Thank you very much. The next one will speak on behalf of the Bandic Milan, the Party of Labour and Solidarity, the Bloka pensioners together and the independent representatives of Ermina Lekaj Prljaskaj, Vladimir Bilek and Mirko Raskovic, the distinguished representative of Milivo Spik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-20-0.u12039	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I must say I'm a little surprised. I thought there would be more people to discuss today's proposal for a decision to disband the Croatian Parliament for one reason, a simple reason. I think it's not only the interest of the Croatian public but also of us who are here. True God, we knew at one point that this would lead to and to this point, or that it was very possible and every day that probability increased. At this point we have a proposal today, we have practically two suggestions. One was signed with 72 MPs today to make a decision that will be worth 15 July and if I am not mistaken if I have well summed up 18 signatories of parliamentary MPs who would like to make the decision today and be worth today. Why am I saying this? And why I think it's very important to highlight some facts here. The question is, the public is wondering, and I'm asking you, what is this reason that 72 MPs want to make a decision that will be worth 15 July? Then why don't we make that decision on July 15th and make it worth the same day? Then I ask all of you? Once again and again, I asked you the same thing, we're all throwing ourselves together, and we've all sworn to do everything in the interest of our citizens, so I'm asking you whether it's a national interest to force citizens to wait two or three months longer, or whether it's our obligation to deal with it right now and now. If we want to, or in a number of MPs, there's a fear that someone might change their mind? So I believe that you are all firm in your decision and that those who stand behind your decision today will be on July 15th. Therefore, I see no reason why the Croatian Parliament does not function normally, it does not work and if the parliamentary majority is such a wish, so we will disband the decision to dissolve July 15th that is Friday, so we are working and it will be worth it from that day to day. If not, not just, these aren't just my words, so I speak for the whole club, I'll read it to you one more time. Club of Representatives Bandić Milan 365 Party of Labour and Solidarity, Block of Retired Together and Independent Representatives Ermina Lekaj Prljaskaj, Vladimir Bilek and Mirko Raskovic. So we, and we're not just saying there's no reason to wait. It's a national interest to deal with it right now. Pronunciations, excuses that this should be the 15 July date of the decision and then two months after that, and then the dates are guessing, 4.9, because it will pass as an annual vacation. Who's going to get a vacation and who needs to wait. Believe me, the 350 thousand blocked with at least two, three family members, that's a million of our citizens, don't have an annual and certainly didn't pay a cruise on the Cruiser from their blocked accounts. Those 300 thousand unemployed certainly won't be on vacation this year, and they don't have time to wait another three months while we're talking here. And out of those million and 200 thousand pensioners, 800 thousand with a pension under 2000 kuna, there are no vacations and they don't care how many MPs are going to buy this summer and then come to the dresser after the annual vacation and make elections in the fall. What fall? What fall? If we all agree that this configuration that has led Croatia in these 6 months can't go on, and it can't, and we're aware of certain political developments within the political options that have led you to not go into what's logical, we're not going to change, it won't, and then finally it opens up another question, now I'm going to tickle your imagination, and what do you think if today and the decision is to disband the Croatian Parliament on 15 July that until that time, if the Parliament can't make another decision that recalls that decision. But then why? If he can do that, I ask, these legal experts know that, if he can make a decision today that will be worth 20 days? And then let's not be long because I see you're all nervous, I guess you're in a hurry somewhere, you're right to do that. I'm one of the ones who says if he can, he can, if he can't on behalf of those citizens in that national interest, is that we solve this problem as soon as possible on behalf of those you all call upon. So, right now. If you want me to do it ourselves and disband the Parliament today with today's date, regardless of the 30-day constitutional deadline that allows a potential prime minister to put together a new government. But if the two largest options that represent more than two-thirds of the MPs here say they won't go with it then even in that case, that 30-day period doesn't have to be consumed because we know that none of the big options want to go into it. So, we save time, we save our citizens our nerves and health, and let's say today if we don't go to new elections, they can be on July 24th. It's summer, it's hot, it's hot, it's not! And how is it only for those who in six months have failed to do almost anything?- I'm sorry. Are they hot? Is it hot, blocked every day, unemployed, those who go through containers and have nothing to live on? No, gentlemen, you don't have the right to wait. We don't have the right to take a year off, but we have an obligation to solve the problem right now and now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-20-0.u12040	Thank you very much. ... Comrades and colleagues, a little patience! [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] We have a few replicas. First of all, he's the esteemed representative of Steve Cule, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-20-0.u12041	Dear Croats and Croats, colleagues and colleagues, our respected national minorities that I once forgot on purpose, what we can do today, we don't leave for tomorrow. And I couldn't help but say before these holidays what I think and what's going on. I'm not sorry to leave here for a lot of reasons, and that's why I've gotten to know you all very well during this short time. I've done a review, and I've cut every single one of them down. I'm not happy with what I'm seeing because this circus that you've organized for us, this hell, I pray to God that we don't experience the 9th circle of hell where I would do very well unlike some. And I want to tell you one more time before I leave because today you gave a minute of silence to our dead from Belgrade. And I'm telling you once again the shame of not giving a minute of silence to 12 Croatian directors and you didn't want to be witnesses of the truth that I passed in the Homeland War. Prime Minister, I'll see you later.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-20-0.u12042	Thank you. This wasn't exactly a replica, but the next one will probably be, a respected representative of Miroslav Simic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-20-0.u12043	Dear President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Dear fellow Spika, I'm surprised your club signed a motion for disbandment when you announced an orderly reluctance three days ago, every day with someone. Well, I guess you saw on Friday that your calculations, even when you multiply them, can't lead to the right result, and you don't add up, so you joined what's inevitable. As for September, the club of representatives of the Most Independent Lists has made it very clear in its comments so far, why it considers that September is a good time for elections. We think that these elections will have much greater legitimacy because the turnout will be far higher but we think, I as a representative from Slavonia and what you talked about, you talked about people who have difficulty living. We also think of those people who go to work seasonally and who can't vote in July. There are other important things why we think the elections are good in September, or why we think this House should continue to work until 15.07. There are things we want to solve. We are left with the Law on the financing of political parties which you, among other things, have voted to follow a regular procedure and for which we have to do another reading in order to finally reduce the amounts for political parties. Why are we going with this initiative today? And MOST gave that answer a few days ago. We're sending a clear political message. We could've brought it in 10 days, but we want to send a message to all of you who've been counting on any overstatement not to count on us. You brought down the government, you destroyed the government in which you participated with us. You're making new choices, that's your decision. I think that the reasons that I have stated are strong enough to disband the Parliament with 15.7., we as a representative club in no debate intended to participate, but here you are encouraged.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-20-0.u12044	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative of Milivo Spik will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-20-0.u12045	Dear colleague. If one MP could agree on a new parliamentary majority, then it would be something unseen in parliamentary democracy by now. Secondly, you refer to people who are seasonally employed, who are somewhere, who are on vacations, but obviously except for a lot of things you don't know, and you came here to run a national policy, maybe even the fact that no matter where you were in the world you could vote. You get confirmation... you know where the day will be and you can consume your electoral right. So, that part of people won't vote or that it's greater or lower turnout, it absolutely has nothing to do with anything. But it has to do with one very interesting thing that you impose yourself, so you're interested in those ten percent that can afford to pay for vacations, summers, winters or whatever, so that's what your voters look like. And yet another thing, the fact that some legal regulations should be passed legally in the second reading, so I didn't notice that you hired any company in the last six months that would advise you on the economy or social issues, sir. You took a company called Grizzly, which will advise you on how you're going to make mistakes, how you're going to black out someone, how you're going to pay for the show... how you're going to set someone up for criminal charges, how you're going to do exactly what you did, that's what you hired. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And none of what our citizens would benefit, gentlemen dear, is what you did. And I don't think the citizens who gave you the vote six months ago are going to fall for your story again because unfortunately it was seen that, in addition to a part of the quality people that are among you, you didn't bring anything good to the Croatian citizen. We don't even exhume the parliamentary majority because everyone has a part of the blame, from the little one to the big one. And Grizzly will meet you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-20-0.u12046	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stipa Petrina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-20-0.u12047	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Spika, first inning, don't use the Assembly Speaker's phone booth for election meetings, you'll have a chance. I understand your haste because we don't have all of you as much as 131 reasons to ask for the immediate recall of this House. Next thing you know, only 10% of people who can afford vacations will eventually not go to the elections in July or September. It's not true, Mr. Spica, and I'm surprised especially by you because you know where you come from. Mr. Spika, in a country where tourism is the strongest social branch, it is very important to take care of the election term. So I ask you, which coastal Croat or citizen of this country will vote and take the time to vote in the 7th or even the beginning of the 9th month to think about the elections? Well, these people, Mr. Spica, they certainly have to take care of their existence in those two months because what they make in those two months is a year. This is what all the people who come from the interior, or continental Croatia, come to the seasonal work. You think it's them while they're fighting for the truth that it's just on their mind how they're gonna get confirmation that they're voting for one, let's say it's as free as we are? They don't care, sir. As soon as you come into an economic crisis, and all people today, most Croatian citizens are in an economic crisis, they have no more will, desire, but nothing to worry about the election. So, Mr. Spica, I agree with you in part, the Parliament should be disbanded by a date of 15.7.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-20-0.u12048	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative of Milivo Spik will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-20-0.u12049	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. And fellow Petrina, then what you've now asked or said is a very likely post-election speech, if mine was pre-election and I don't have exactly 131 reasons or maybe I'm more personally for the election. If we were to talk about an IQ, it would be a much larger number, but it's not a topic here. And secondly, what you think is that in Dalmatia all two months they've been working in tourism, everyone's in tourism, nobody's got anything, and we know you're scrambling on a boat. You don't seem to be doing too much tourism from this point of view. But if you take care of your people, don't take the right to tell them if they need to or don't need to go to elections. Leave it to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Another thing would be, and I'd agree with you if it were more or less a good term, so let's say it's not a good time for summer to kick a little bit and go swimming, and what now someone's going to be harassing him with some choices or, say, winter when we're going for a squirming, and what's going to spoil my skiing, gentlemen dear. But if we say that we are going to citizens' interests to take care of it and we have the fact that in Croatia it is not 90 or as in some neighbouring countries 105 or 110%, but 50, 60%. So let's let everyone decide for themselves whether it's more important for him to have that day buzzing in the sea or in the Caine as we say, right, in the laurels or to do his civic duty and say let's go as soon as we finish this agony, the other is in a hurry, we want ourselves and the other good. Because watch out, Mr. Petrina, the one who doesn't know how to do good, doesn't know how to do good.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-20-0.u12050	Thank you very much. And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Ivica Music. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-20-0.u12051	Dear Representative Spika, I see you're talking about the urgency of disbanding the Parliament and the urgency to go to new elections. Whether we're going to leave urgently or start at 9 months is less important, in a month's time, and I personally think we're not going to get anything with it, but the truth is that most of our Slavs are working on hotels and around tourism, so it wouldn't be good, at least for Slavonia to make it so fast. But it doesn't matter. The question is, what are we going to get with these choices coming up, anyway, and they certainly should be. We'll get the same thing, we'll get the same people, same Parliament, same work. How to change my mind, these six months that I've been in politics and I've never been, I saw right from the start that some things are wrong. That it's just not going in the direction that it's working, it's going in the direction of who's going to put who where, what it's going to look like for personal interests. I personally believe this people will get nothing from our poor people. We had the left who worked for four years, 100 billion in debt, we didn't do anything. We had it now, and here we went as the Most Right, and I'm not even a MOST anymore, so it collapsed in six months that I was then, and I was saying even five months ago that it wasn't going well, and I even publicly said on TV and around that what was going on wasn't right. We can't constantly obstruct things and we have to compromise in work, we have to put together some quality people who really want to work and not who they want me to be a minister, I want to be a Deputy Prime Minister, I want to be and in fact I can't, I don't know, I just don't have the capacity to do that. Will we succeed in getting people no matter which side they are capable of quality and once we go to this people and for 25 years we tap into the place and we haven't gone beyond borrowing. Everything we've done we've been borrowing this country and here, this sad 6 months of this government that couldn't do anything and I'm afraid there won't be another one like that...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-20-0.u12052	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative of Milivo Spik will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-20-0.u12053	Dear colleague. I cannot disagree with you that if elections are important in 30 or 60 days it may not change, it is very possible that they will not, it is very possible and it is realistic to expect that certain political options may get a little more or less of a mandate but that political relations will change significantly, so the positions they have now. At this point, it's probably hard and you're right. But look, there's one other thing I have to consider when we're talking about whether it's urgent or not. So our citizens think differently. They want to solve the problem right now, especially one that has some problem and you know for yourself that exactly, you have your neighbors who are blocked or unemployed or something. He's like a couple of years old every day, and they don't have time to wait. So, because of them, we need to do some things as soon as possible, as soon as possible, but again by respecting some things. We should leave and open the question, what we will change or what is more important if the elections do not take place within 30 or 35 days of today but are 80 or 90 days. Maybe something's gonna change, but I'm sure no one here would put too much on the table. And what's very important in this whole story, you say who's going to introduce themselves to who, why citizens choose the way they choose, because most of the time someone else is serving them their opinion. Unfortunately, our citizens are still heavily influenced by the media, and the media is creating a lot. I haven't heard that the media transmitted and there was your couple, a lot of good debates, and even some people here who were in MOST or are still or some other person. There's not that much in the media, but we have some other bizarre things that you're going to tell 90% of here is not their place in the media because they're affecting the voter's opinion. Therefore I will also call upon these voters to judge for themselves by what they see and hear, and not by what they are given.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-20-0.u12054	Thank you very much. I see no one else is answering for the debate, so I'd like to conclude the debate with that. We'd like to check the quorum first. I'm asking you to turn yourself in and check on how many of us are there. I'm asking for a result. 139, so there's plenty of us. I therefore vote on the following Decision, 1 / 1 The Croatian Parliament is disbanding. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on 15 July 2016. I would like to stress that the proposed decision requires half the majority of all representatives of the Croatian Parliament, so 76 votes. Please join the vote, who's in favour of that decision? I'm asking for a result. 137 for, 1 abstention, 2 against. I find that most votes have been decided on the disbanding of the Croatian Parliament, which will enter into force on 15 July 2016. I would now ask you to discuss one item of the agenda that we were expected to discuss, which is necessary for the sake of the timing, which is - The proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the mission to support peace "Resolut support" in Afghanistan. Namely, it is related to our obligations to the international in Afghanistan. Therefore, if you agree, we would now discuss this decision. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 54 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Defence Act and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. I see you all agree. The material was delivered to you in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Defence Committee, the Legislative Committee. You've received their reports on the benches. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Deputy Defence Minister Mr Tomislav Ivić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-20-0.u12056	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the mission to support peace "Resolut Support" in Afghanistan was made in line with the plans that were known at the time of its adoption, which in 2016 envisioned a gradual reduction of NATO forces in this mission so that the implementation of a new civilian mission could begin in 2017. Following the decision, there is a deterioration in the security situation in Afghanistan. Paralysing NATO support for the Afghan national defence and security forces, the rebels began to exert increased pressure on these forces by inflicting losses on them. Following the evaluation of those factors of instability at the level of the alliance, a decision was taken to suspend the further reduction of forces. Although, on the basis of the progress made in the development of the situation on the ground and the Allied plans, the Republic of Croatia has provided for a reduction in the number of engagements in the mission starting in July 2016, the need for the Republic of Croatia as well as other Member States of the alliances and partners in the mission to continue with their contribution to the numbered public mission phase. It is therefore necessary to adopt a decision amending the Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in a peace support mission in order to allow for the mission to be referred instead of up to 70 to 95 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, with the possibility of rotation, from 1 July to 31 December 2016. So we propose to amend the decision in this regard as I said that from 1 July to 31 December 2016, instead of 70 to 95 members of the Armed Forces with the possibility of rotation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-20-0.u12057	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The debate came on behalf of MOST, the distinguished representative of Ines Strenja-Linić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-20-0.u12058	Dear President, honourable representatives of a purely a few sentences to say exactly how important our role and our members in Afghanistan are and to say that on behalf of the Most Independent Lists Club, we will support this decision. Members of our army are currently participating in six missions around the world, so the largest one in Afghanistan is "Resolution Support", then our KFOR operation in Kosovo where 23 of our members are, 9 members are participating in a mission in India and Pakistan, 7 in the Western Sahara and 1 officer in Lebanon and 2 members in Somalia in ATALANTA are data that you can read on the pages of our Ministry of Defence and I think we can be proud of all these members. And a few words about our participation in Afghanistan because those guys over there deserve something to talk about. So NATO's primary goal is to strengthen Afghan institutions in ensuring effective security in the country eliminate the possibility of Afghanistan ever again being a safe haven for terrorists. Since the end of 2001. ISAF was an operation in support of peace, and in 2013. The UN has changed the mission's mandate in accordance with Chapter 7 of the UN Charter by allowing the use of force in support of peace by assessing that the situation in Afghanistan is a threat to international peace and security, and since then, the implementation of a security and assistance operation has been in place, the construction of Afghan security and defence forces. The transition of Afghan security forces began in 2011, and ended in December 2014, when the ISAF mission ended and the Afghans took full responsibility for peace in their country. This Regulation shall enter into force on the NATO has launched a new non-combat mission that we are now participating in "Resolution Support" with the goal of training, consulting and assisting Afghan security forces and institutions. This mission is ongoing in 2016. Therefore, the Republic of Croatia has been participating in the mission since February 2003, with a reference of up to 50 military officers, staff officers and officers in Kabul to increase the figure between 2008 and 2009 to 350 participants. During that period, members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia carried out very demanding and risky tasks and should be said here because we were without human losses the whole time. Staff officers at the ISAF headquarters in Kabul and the regional command of the Capital north dedicated organised military police force in Kabul, so Kabul was held by the military police of our Croatian army. The combined medical team, our doctors and nurses at the hospital at Kabul Airport all this time, the operational mentoring team for the relationship, the dedicated organised forces of infantry and insurance at Marmal base at the airport in Mazar Sharif was designed to carry out the surveillance and insurance tasks, a mobile observation team that was also the most difficult tasks of our members where they entered the territory on their own for 7 days outside their parent bases to collect data on the situation on the ground. I think it should be information or something that you all should hear as parliamentary representatives, and apparently some of them are not interested in a team of military police in... So from the very beginning in the ISAF mission, and later on, our members of the armed forces, they did responsible and risky tasks. Many of them were members of the Croatian Army and participants of the Homeland War. Fortunately, we did not have human losses, which is, in addition to happiness and the result of training, responsibilities, and commitment in the performance of our assignments. Members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia have always been worthy of the flags they carry, not only because of their relationship with their combat tasks, but also of their relations with the local population. Among other things, one of the tasks of each contingent was to leave a trail among the locals with some humanitarian action. So the wells were built, there were elementary schools where water was carried for miles because there were schools where there was no water at all. So our school members were able to build, work and build a well in some schools, renovate complete kitchens somewhere, renovate school buildings, some of them create a kindergarten for women who were in a women's prison in Kabul. You know why women end up in prison, our members are for those women whose children were allowed in cells, they were out of these cells by day built for those children kindergartens so that they could be in the fenced yard around the prison where women were placed, etc. So that was what our army also showed and left a mark among the population. The current situation in Afghanistan and beyond shows us that as a responsible NATO member, Croatia should participate in increasing training, consulting and assistance forces for the institutions of the Afghan state to maintain security in the country. Croatian Armed Forces, I am sure, are ready to make a full contribution to the efforts of the international community and NATO to help the Afghan security forces in the near future be self-sustainable. And from here I welcome all our members who are now on peacekeeping missions around the world on many missions, and I welcome them and I want them to return happily to their homes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-20-0.u12059	Thank you very much. With this, since no one else has answered, I am concluding the debate, and we would move to a vote on the debated points. So let's first talk about this last one, and let's get right on it. Therefore, I am voting on the proposal for a decision to amend the decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the mission to support peace "Resolution Support" in Afghanistan. Who's in favour of that decision? I'm asking for a result. 79 for, 5 abstentions, 3 against. I therefore find that most votes accept the motion for a decision. The following is the report on the work of the Ombudsman for people with disabilities for 2015.
