ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8027	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The reason for the adoption of amendments and the addition of the Noise Protection Act is to bring national legislation in line with the EU Directive on the assessment and management of noise from the environment. We were warned of the non-compliance by the European Commission of unscheduled strategic noise maps and action plans for 2012 and unfortunately incorrect transposition of the 2002 directive. Amendments to the laws shall determine the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to draw up and draw up strategic maps of noise and action plans. The proposed amendments and amendments to the law clarify and supplement certain provisions for the third round of strategic maps and action plans for the period 2017 to 2019. The legislative proposal deletes the non-application of the law to the noise of aircraft, changes the definition of noise and establishes the obligation to publish the mandate of the Minister responsible for health to carry out noise protection professional tasks in the National Journal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8028	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. A, is, excuse me, the president of the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature, the distinguished representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8029	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. At the 4th session held on 13 April 2016, the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on noise protection with the Final Proposal of the Law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposed law as an interested working body and, in the opening statement of its representative, pointed out that amendments to the provisions of the proposed law had been made to ensure the implementation of Directive 2002/49/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 June 2002 on the assessment of noise management from the environment. I mean, how would you... for the 3rd round, the preparation of strategic maps of noise and action plans for the period 2017-2019 could be completed in time and fully. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Following the opening argument, the proposed provisions are supported which impose an obligation on the bonds to draw up action plans and formally adopt them and thus ensure that the draft action plans are adopted and adopted by the executive bodies of units of local and regional, regional self-government, members of companies, companies or directors of institutions. As regards Article 4 of the proposed law which deletes Article 15 of the Law, the question of the reason for eradicating the obligation to publish in the National Journal is the authority of the Minister of Health to carry out professional protection against the noise given to legal persons. It was clarified by the applicant's representative that the said approach was due to the complexity of the recreditation process. The following debate further highlights the importance of transparency and information to the public through the official publication of the authorisation and highlights the proposal to amend the Committee, which is also supported by the proposal's representative. So the Committee has made an amendment to the proposed law to delete Article 4. to continue, that there is a obligation to publish in the National Journal for the sake of public interest and full public information on who has accreditation for those matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8030	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. And the first line will be on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative Davor Penic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8031	Honored President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister of State. The SDP club has no objection to the law but has no objection to the way the law is passed. The problem of the law being passed by emergency procedure is that this is a very important issue that determines the impact not only on the environment but also on human health. The explanation that the pilot of the European Union is already working on the third strategic measurement of noise maps and the development of action plans is not an obligation for us who have not made the first and second evaluations and action plans to speed up and make the third. So that's not enough explanation. Secondly, the adoption of an emergency law burdens the budget of units of local self-government who did not plan in their financial plans and budgets to implement these action plans for the production of strategic noise maps and noise protection plans. Then, this broad issue should include some other ministries other than the Ministry of Health and Environmental Protection, should include the Ministry of Civil Engineering, the spatial arrangement and should include the Ministry of Transport because traffic is the most noise-making type. And with spatial planning, we could limit those quiet zones so we don't build high-frequency industrial buildings and roads next to them. The good things about this law are that new ones are defined, more precise terms are defined which is noise in the environment. However, we went to an urgent amendment to this law in a way that explains how these representatives of the European Commission came to us and said you must do so. The ministry states that a consultation with the European Commission has been carried out, however, on this consultation we MPs have not received any reports, we do not know when the consultation took place. We don't have any notes. So, what was discussed at that session, and what conclusions were reached? So there are a lot of things that are problematic in passing this law. The good things are that the law lays down measures to avoid, prevent and reduce adverse effects on health caused by noise in the environment. The exposure of noises to map making is determined on the basis of precise methods, noise assessment indicator, availability of noise and environment data and the obligation to draw up action plans. So the paper is that units of local self-government must make these action plans and inform the ministry within three months. This applies to units that have 100,000 inhabitants, meaning regional or local units that have more than 100,000 inhabitants are obliged to make a noise map and make an environmental impact assessment of that noise. Then inform the general public of the results of these measurements, bring an action plan against noise in units of these regional or local individuals with more than 100,000 inhabitants and report within 3 months to the ministry. It's a newspaper in this law so everyone has to documentedly confirm to the ministry that he did what he was asked to do. Then there is the obligation of private entities of a type of Croatian highway that have more than 3 million traffic of vehicles to make noise maps, then airports that have more than 55 manipulative operations, means take-off or landing and is in the ferry ports of some larger ones to make. However, by harmonising this document, our legislator did not ask for exceptions regarding noise, what causes environmental damage? For example, in a small area of the city of Dubrovnik, which has 60 churches in a small area, this noise from religious buildings is exceptional in some provisions of the law, with exceptions from some countries as noise. Basically we'll support this proposal just the way the law was passed wasn't good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8032	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8033	When you change the law, I see that you have prepared well and made good suggestions and that you have analyzed it as an expert. However, when the law is changed then amendments can be changed so that the good proposals you have could be proposed in the amendment on behalf of your club. And speaking of the law, this law could have been passed to you in the last government by 2015, so it could have been implemented before and now it wouldn't have been an emergency procedure, most likely it would have already been harmonised exactly as you say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8034	The honourable representative Davor Penic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8035	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Coli Bulj, I say that the argument that an emergency procedure is being followed in the third phase of the development of action plans and maps is not a good explanation because we have not made the previous two, so we have not made a change of noise or a map of noise and action plans in the two circles that the EU has been working on, is the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8036	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the next one will speak for the distinguished representative Marko Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8037	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Bekavac, dear Mrs. Katalinić, distinguished representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. We will support these amendments and amendments to the law because we believe that noise has a very harmful impact on human health and that the problem of noise is not sufficiently publicised as an environmental and health problem. I personally welcome the decision on making noise maps, making action plans based on data used in making noise maps. We are pleased that these provisions will apply to the assessment and management of noises of the environment that people are exposed to especially in built areas, in quiet areas, in nature besides schools, hospitals, etc. However, we have some misunderstandings that you'd like to explain to us. Therefore, these provisions of the law do not apply to noise stemming from unregistered facilities. It turns out that they will be in a privileged position under the law of unregistered activities. Also, the provisions of this law do not apply to the noise generated by the vehicle during sports activities. I will set an example here from my electoral unit, i.e. An example from my village, it's Spanish, there's a problem at the Karting Center of Spain that's been working for 20 years. Last year, he ran out of concessions and numerous citizens living near the Karting Center of Spain, which is about 10 meters from the air line, had objections to the noise created by the Karting Center. Last year, the Karting Center expired, but it still works. The noise is an even bigger problem in summer days when people have to have open spaces. In that place, he promised to build a swimming pool and a rink five years ago. At the same time, however, Karting Center plays an immeasurable role in the education and transport culture of children from Spain and I find it socially useful. But didn't a concessionist have to make a bouquet and how effective these bozos are to make everyone happy? This law should prevent such phenomena so that everyone, in a way, would be satisfied and that Croatian famous bureaucracy would not do its part again. We believe that, in the application of this law, we must take care of the social benefits of a particular facility, the protection of our citizens. And we'll support this bill, but here's a few questions for you only. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8038	Thank you very much. The next one will speak on behalf of the HNS Representatives' Club, the next one will speak with the distinguished representative Anka Mrak Taritas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8039	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear deputy with associate, colleague and colleague. We have before us an amendment to the Act of Noise Protection. When it comes to the law on protection against noise, it has absolutely great influence and great importance when it comes to spatial planning. I believe that there is no one sitting in this assembly, and even wider, who during his lifetime when it comes to housing has not met with the problem of noise, whether that noise is in the object itself or whether it is the noise caused by the road or, as my distinguished colleague has said from certain sports facilities and certain activities. The law on protection against noise has an exceptional meaning when it comes to cards, when it comes to mapping because it should be the basis for creating spatial plans. So when the object is finished and the object starts to use then a lot of people meet and talk about the need, to have problems, to have noise problems. However, it is very difficult to resolve at that time. It is prevented in a way that maps are made against noise protection, that there are analyses, that there are studies that are the basis for a spatial plan and then there would certainly not be as many observations as there are about sports facilities and roads and everything else. These changes and additions, we will support this amendment and addition. However, what would be important would be that when laws are passed and there are certain obligations, those obligations are not only well-assembled in law but are indeed in real life and we apply it. I point to two facts that are in this amendment and the addition of the law. The first fact is that the populated areas that have more than 100,000 inhabitants are obliged to make strategic maps of noise and make and bring action plans. So, settlements that have more than 100,000 inhabitants. There are four settlements in Croatia, we are not sure about the fourth. So more than 100,000 inhabitants have Zagreb, Rijeka, Split and Osijek, which is about 107 thousand, so I'm afraid it's now below 100. And these are the settlements that have an obligation. So, the EU directive when we rewrite it and when we build it into legislation, I think we should also take care of some of our local conditions. I'm not about to give any additional restrictions and conditions and financial burdens to units of local self-government, but what I'm sure when a good noise analysis is made, when a strategic map is made, and then when you do a spatial plan there is incomparably easier for you to work and incomparably easier for you to have some arguments why to plan or not. So, I'm taking this opportunity to propose to the resolution ministry. Otherwise, when changes were made and additions were always in working groups were also colleagues from the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning for a simple reason because the condition of the cards definitely has a consequence of spatial planning. I suggest you think about it a little bit and see it. I am not in favour of Croatia being even tougher than others, but to see what to do there. And I especially stress the problem that is related to the airport. So we have airports where we have them, especially near the city of Zagreb is about a settlement that was built near the airport. This law had a restriction not to apply to airports. He now refers and there should be very careful and see in the further planning of Velika Gorica, in the further way that he will be able to in these settlements which the relationship of this law has to do with the fact that it no longer applies to airports. The law on noise protection is one in a set of laws that goes a little under our radar to refer to those airports as well. But there is a great consequence, indeed, in everyday life, because what it has to do with spatial planning is felt by all of us in life when you buy an apartment in a building and then all of a sudden it happens to you to have a whole ground floor of a lot of unsuitable activities. Or if you're buying an apartment in a building that's near a sports recreation center that looks very good to you at one point because you have a view of greenery, but in the second round it may look bad to you not only because of the sporting activities that are happening, but also because of the accompanying content. So, let me get this straight. We will support this amendment to the law. She's in compliance with the directive. And what I'm taking this opportunity to suggest to the restoring ministry that he really thinks a little bit about this obligation of 100,000 inhabitants, or it will apply to three or four settlements. And equally related to spatial planning are extremely important maps because then they will facilitate the life of spatial planners, they will have arguments for some of the content that they are planning in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8040	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSU and the independent list of Stipe Petrina, the next will speak to the distinguished representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8041	Dear Mr. President, honourable representatives of the Ministry of Health, colleagues and colleagues. I'm afraid the HSU club, regardless of the good intentions of the promoter, will not be able to support this law because this might turn out to be an inaccurate law on protection against "bruca" because what we should have done so far has not been done and what it says here is quite imprecise. I have to tell you that in 1983 I received the first noise measurement certificate when it was measured with the instrument Brüel Kjaer Danish manufacturer where you had to recalculate with the calculator after measuring the noise indicator and then because they were indicators of noise all day long to get some results. That instrument was worth half of Stoyad back then. 10 years later, the same manufacturer produced sophisticated instruments that really measure, directly measure noise and can measure noise day and night with them and create a map of noise. But these instruments also cost as much as half a car, as one half of Audi's this average equipment. So it's not a game, it's a expensive, very expensive story, and that's why I think that expensive story has to be very, very precise. In fact, it does not seem to be a fact that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources, of course not in the state budget, but are the units of local self-government and regional self-government outside the state, and is it also an obligation to enroll us in the laws to create certain costs for them? We can't just care, we don't care about others. It's only important that we don't make extra expenses in the state budget. Because the fact that it's going to be done under this law is going to be a terrible expense, even if it's for these three or four cities as the colleague pointed out. However, one or two are other facts that make it impossible for us to give a passing assessment of this law that is otherwise so brief. First, it cannot write in Article 3 populated areas that have more than 100,000 inhabitants are mandatory. It could have been in the old law because the old law didn't have one, it was just an action plan. In this novel, the law says that action plans should be developed and implemented. If it is made then it is done by a professional person or an authorised company to measure noise. If it writes to design and deliver then, after a professional or an institution authorised to measure noise, the competent authority of the unit of local self-government must adopt an action plan, it must provide the costs for the implementation of that action plan. So, there's no way you can stand this frame story of populated areas. It has to be written here by units of local self-government, cities because municipalities don't count over 100,000 inhabitants, cities with over 100,000 inhabitants are obliged to make this. And then this would be nomotechnically correct. The populated area is Pula with 65 thousand and a circle of 15 thousand around it is a populated area. However, there is no competent authority of the local self-government unit covering the area. So it's a story that doesn't drink water. I ask the Proposer to intervene with his amendment. And secondly, please don't use the word field noise testing. The quality, strength of material, metal, water, etc. is examined. The noise is measured. The noise has its own unit, decibel if you didn't know, or another one. So it's only measured. And only by measuring the noise can you come to certain conclusions. You have to assess how harmful the impact within the building you have to put a meter inside the building to see how the noise of the surroundings works on your apartment, day and night, measure all day and night for 24 hours and you will get out of all parameters. So it's an extensive job that requires resources and time. I am for all that is said here. And a lot of things, to limit the noise and the bar because we're coming to the bar to have coffee and talk and not to enjoy the noise, to limit noise and nightclubs. We're dealing with noise because it leaves lasting consequences on youth. They say we're surprised why there was a car accident, he didn't have any alcohol, he didn't have any drugs, but that's why he was a young man or a girl exposed to 110 decibel noises that are pleasant but these bazaars vibrate and leave their consequences to the brain, to all organs in the body. So the noise continues or the noise has its part still below, and these are vibrations that affect the human body. Therefore, you can have all kinds of consequences. So I am that this society deals hard with noise because it's one of the pests that is on the rise and lowers the quality of life but let's start to be precise in the formulation, so in the nomotechnical definition of what we want. That's all I'm pleading for, nothing more than that. Otherwise, I accept the initiative as such and joining this third action plan at last, but I ask that we make some efforts to do what we do very, very precisely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8042	Thank you very much. My esteemed colleague Hrelja actually encouraged me, he's the second to make some concrete suggestions. Therefore, I would ask you that if we have concrete proposals on certain laws to express them in the form of amendments, so we all get these laws on time, we can prepare the amendments in time. Even now, here we can prepare an amendment to improve these laws by the end of the discussion. It doesn't make much sense to talk at a pay phone, especially specific suggestions if we're not actually ready to propose some kind of amendment to which we could improve this law. I therefore suggest that we all try to prepare the amendments in the future if we have such a very precise and very concrete proposal for some improvement of a certain law. All right, the next one came on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the esteemed representative, Lucian Vukelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8043	Dear President, fellow MPs and representatives in the Croatian Parliament. I failed to report now, they didn't actually see me, I just wanted to immediately refer to Mr. MP Hrelj who apparently wasn't in the previous Assembly because, as we know from the phonogram here from 2013, from December 5th, the amendments to the Law on Noise Protection started with the aim of legal and complete transposition of Directive 2002/49/EC. Now to cut the story, it means under number one, with 250 thousand inhabitants, it's down to 100,000 inhabitants. You could've cut back to 20 or 15 grand to change that. That's one thing. The second thing, it is also known by the European directive that 6 million passageways per year are for the main roads, which we do not have. So it fell to 3 million, to 50%. You could've cut to a million. Then, it was for train crossings to 60,000 passes a year, down to 30,000. You could have reduced it all to lower, lower and lower but you didn't do it and now you're surprised and you're digging up, you're unconscious that Pula has an airport and you know that the European Directive is 50,000 shares, just like in Dubrovnik. That can't be changed. But well, let me go back to the Noise Protection Act, which is, before us is the proposal on changes and additions to noise protection. And also in the previous... Like I said twice debated. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And last time in December of 2013. And now it's call eight, they're discussing it again. The club's position, of course, is that we will support this law and the text of this final law contains a statement of conformity and a final proposal with the legal property of the EU resulting in the full compliance of this law with the provisions of the primary and secondary sources of EU law. So it's clear from the documents that this time, too, is about coordinating with the EU, so, like every time, there's been coordination with the EU. That's it. Amendments and additions to the provisions of the proposed law have been made to ensure the implementation of the 2002 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. So since 2002, we've had thanks to God for 14, 15 years where we could agree and I see that every time it goes on and on. On the assessment and management of noise from the environment, i.e. in order to ensure that the obligations for the 3rd round of strategic maps of noise and action plans for the period 2001 to 2019 can be fulfilled in a timely and complete manner. What are we talking about? We're talking about this local self-government, the local self-government that didn't do it, that's what we're talking about. has not adopted any action plans. They should be brought in because it's the 2013 Law that you brought in, i.e. You voted him, then you were the parliamentary majority. Of course, it's four cities that we know who's in power in those cities. In the report of the Parliamentary Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection, it may be interesting to note that Article 4 of the deleted law, which deletes Article 5 of the Law, raises the question of the reason for the erasure of obligations, no Mr Maras, the erasure of the publication obligation in the National Journal, the authority of the health minister to carry out the professional noise protection tasks given to legal persons. It was clarified by the applicant's representative that this approach was due to the complexity of the recreditation procedures. In order to explain the whole story a little bit, the recreditation of these noise protection companies is in the Republic of Croatia 20. They have a legal obligation to recredit. Since this was adopted in 2013 they made a recredit in 2013, so every 5 years they have to recredit it. And now, because of all this complexity, as far as I understand this law, because of this complication of re-accreditation, because then that law could not even be implemented because this is about a re-credit that lasts who knows how long and this is the 2017 Action Plan. So for next year it should already be brought in. So action plans for regional self-government, i.e. These four major cities that are obliged to do so because so is the law adopted in 2013. The following debate further highlights the importance of transparency of information through the official publication of the authorisation, the proposal to amend the amendment committee, which is also supported by the applicant. That I don't read now and it says beautifully in the law as far as it goes and what this law doesn't apply to. That was a colleague of Sladolev's, too, but I don't know if he was able to articulate it. The problem with illegal work and noisemaking, it does not apply to the people who enforce this law, i.e. does not apply to the sanitary inspection. Sanitary inspection determines but it should also withdraw that inspection dealing with the supervision of illegal labor. It's from the Department of Labour. After Mr Linic abolished the state inspectorate, the labour ministry moved to the levels of various ministries so that it simply divorced the inspection itself as such. Thus, the Noise Protection Act lays down measures to avoid, prevent or reduce adverse effects on the health of people caused by noise in the environment, including noise disturbances, in particular regarding the determination of noise exposure and the production of noise maps. On the basis of the method used to assess noise in the environment, to ensure the availability of data on noise of the environment and to develop action plans based on data used in making noise maps. The provisions of this law apply to the assessment and management of noises of the environment that are exposed to people and in particular in built areas, in public parks or other areas in populated areas, of course, in quiet areas, in nature, in addition to schools, hospitals and other noise-sensitive buildings. The provisions of this law do not apply to noise protection measures binding on the Republic of Croatia under the International Treaties and Conventions. The provisions of this law do not apply to noise resulting from the removal of the consequences of natural disasters, in other caused events or circumstances which may cause major material damage. Of course, what this is all about and why it's brought down to local self-government units, to these big four cities, are they deciding when it's going to be like me, a party, when there's going to be some saints, when they're going to let these bars work, these events in a particular area. In addition, they are obliged to adopt action plans to prove how much noise there is and then to be able, in due time and rightly, to make both the beech and everything that goes under this law. It is also important to note how the law states, the proposed law respects the specificity of RS membership in the EU and enables flexible adaptation of domestic legislation, EU legislation. That's, of course, good. I wouldn't owe much more of this on behalf of the club, I join here to accept and support the bill passed by the ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8044	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He is the first to be respected representative of Davor Penic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8045	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Vukelic, I don't understand how something can be aligned with something if it hasn't been done before. So we're coordinating some measurement map or some action plan with some former action plan that hasn't been made. What kind of harmony is that? That's one question. And the second question, you said, I'll only fix you. That this noise that occurs inside some cafes or zones does not fall under the Law on the Protection of Noise in the Environment. It's the subject of another law of violation, so you've replaced it a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8046	Thank you very much. The next replica is an esteemed colleague, you cannot answer, you did not pick up the table in time. I, ever since I've been warned by the esteemed representative Stazic, will be very careful whether someone has raised the plate or not, therefore, here is a colleague of Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8047	Dear President, dear colleague. This area is not an area that deserves to be accounted for in a relationship that the former government has done or has not done, or what this one will or will not do. I have only explained to you the difference between the existing article 7 and the intention in this law that it wants to change. So, it can't be if here in Article 7 of this law you installed an obligation to adopt action plans, then it can't remain that these are populated areas, because the populated areas of the formula don't legally mean anything. The populated area is much wider than the city as a unit of local self-government. Therefore, it must be changed instead of populated areas, a city with more than 100 thousand inhabitants or the competent authority of the city must adopt such an action plan and provide funds. So that's the essence of the change, you're suggesting that we deal with action plans, which we support. The wording of the article should now be changed. What's the problem? Of course, Mr. President, I'm taking the opportunity, I haven't caused you any damage to the Rules of Procedure, but here in this House we have representatives with various skills and previous experiences and jobs. It would be okay for the departments in charge to know the same thing and to consult with us, and I think this is a legal issue that should have been seen in the ministry itself, and that is why I am not going to do the amendments, but I am asking the Proposer to make the amendments. It's my right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8048	Thank you. Regardless of the fact that he doesn't normally communicate with the chairman, I've only warned everyone and you have the ability to react. It is always more comfortable to stand behind a pay phone and give great advice and, in particular, if a person has any objection in the form of an amendment, I am convinced that any smart, overly, constructive amendment will be accepted. But he would allow the honourable representative Vukelic to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8049	Dear counterpart Hrelja, I said in this statement that in 2013 the proposal was adopted, where it writes action plans for cities with more than 250,000 residents who changed afterwards to 100,000 inhabitants. So, there was no talking about it. You said it needed to be changed from populated areas. I understand everything. It's all very clear to me. But I'm going back to the fact that it's from 2013 when you passed that law. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8050	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8051	You told your colleague that the inspections were lifted during Slavko Linic, so I disagreed with my colleague Linic, former parliamentary representative and minister. However, did you present yourself here in that I have agreed, numerous inspections, and so many agencies. I'm sorry that during that time and after that, a lot of things have not been shut down that slows down both the development of the economy and the selectivity of the inspector. So, do you have any data on whether there was less noise at the time, whether noise was measured, whether it was harmonised in the law, or maybe it's the possibility of letting the inspector go again, open it up and increase the number of inspections, agencies, or I don't know what. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8052	Thank you. The distinguished representative Lucian Vukelic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8053	When I was talking about the State Inspectorate, I didn't mean the repetition or creation of new agencies and new inspectorates. However, I was talking about the unification of a single professional institution which was the State Inspectorate who could control it. The kind of controls that I now consider to be watered down and that the procedure of control and sanctions that have been imposed at this time with noise could not be adequately carried out. One part of it, of course, has come down to the level of local self-government, where municipal directors are now doing it, and it seems not good enough. Because I see by number, my colleague Bull is speaking to you. I hope you heard what I said because it's now down to the level of local self-government and communal directors. So now more people are added who are doing this and are inspecting something that they can't adequately do in an adequate way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8054	Thank you. Now we're moving on to an individual debate. We only have one registered, and this is the distinguished representative Andrija Mikulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8055	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. So they say in the Croatian people fragile knowledge. And then those who have experience should know that the president of the Croatian Parliament is not pollemized. Well, then I hear a word a lot, and so on the Media Committee, this is a reckoning. I don't understand what kind of reckoning? A calculation of who and what? We probably all remember that movie, "Occupation at O.K. Corrala’ if you mean that famous Western. So when we talk about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Noise Protection Act, then I think it's a good thing we know some basic things about it. So we should know that we have a ministry that is responsible for something, that it has spoken to representatives of the European Commission who said that something should be fixed. I'm not going into it, I'm not even going to talk about it whether it was supposed to be in the last term or not. But we've come up with two things. So one was an addition to action plans, and the other was for cards. It may not have been noticed, but we had one item in that bill, where there was an exception to the non-application of the law relating to the noise of the aircraft. It's off now. Right? So that's where it went. I absolutely welcome this for the noise charts as well as this that you are obliged to publish the authorisation in the National News for performing noise protection professionally has made a proposal to delete it because it is often a change as far as I see it, and it is quite sufficient for the ministry to be published on the pages of the ministry. So that's something that goes with it. One of the speakers said, "I've been here with the distinguished representative, Dark Taritash, and I've consulted a little about it." So you have a situation where you have units of local administrations and self-government that, for example, produce space-planned documents for you. Who's making these space-planned documents? The members of the local administration and self-government unit? No, I don't. Professionals. So there's an explanation in that part of the making and making. The unit of local administration and self-government must adopt a space-plan document, which is the most normal procedure under the authority of the law. But I would personally like to have professional people in those units who might be able to do that, even if they were authorized. But they can't do that, but they have procedures where they pick something, choose it, so a professional makes it. About the spatial plans with the esteemed representative, Dark Taritash, I absolutely agree. It's impossible to deal with spatial planning, that you don't have a map of noise, that we don't have certain zones that we need to know when we're dealing with spatial planning as well as when we have input parameters for one, the other, the third or fifth zone, whether it's green, whether it's building, whether it's something third. So these are the most normal things I would say alphabets when we want to deal with spatial planning. And that's another reason why it should be supported in this proposal. There were words about the inspection. So, yeah. I'll do it again every time I get a chance. One of the worst decisions of the former government was that the State Inspectorate was no longer a central body but to go after certain ministries with certain inspections. We shouldn't forget '97. when the State Inspectorate was formed as a state administrative organisation, then there were strong ministers who refused to give their inspections in the central body. They had a theory that they needed those who were betraying papers that they needed to control. That's not good. The basic principle of two-stage treatment was compromised. Therefore, when we say that certain inspections were abolished during a certain gentleman, no, there was a decommissioning of the State Inspectorate, and in 6 or 7 of the ministries returned these inspections. The number of people in certain workplaces has multipled, and there, my colleague Bulj, agreeing with you, has completely lost control in terms of quality of supervision. But I hope we open that topic in this House one day when there's a chance. According to the information I have today, but here's the esteemed deputy and assistant minister, I can deny it if it's not true today we almost have about 200 inspectors. Not everyone works on the noise, I'm talking about the Sanitary Inspectorate. Part of them redistribute to do that part of the job. As far as European experiences are concerned, noise does not belong to this ministry where we have it, noise belongs to environmental protection. And it needs to see little of these experiences that are also in the environment in other countries around the Republic of Croatia. Around the decibel, around the strengths are all defined by the law, which is, to which the limits are measured. I can agree that we have a problem in certain environments, so if you want in the City of Zagreb where the mass of the catering facilities is and then of course you have people complaining about noise because the apartments are right above the catering facilities. Now, you know that this apartment is always the price lower than anywhere else in the other location or on the higher floor. However, there should be a common conclusion in terms of what and how. And then you have that let's say that we say technical professions in the situ live measure so when you measure noise and when you get to the noise measurement then you know that, and there you can agree in one part of the discussion, then that noise is not above those limits everyone already knows when it comes to measurement and then de facto 90% and more finds are fine. So, within those allowed limits. Perhaps it is an opportunity to consider these boundaries that should be redefined. But we're probably also following some of the experiences of the surrounding countries. Therefore, I believe that this amendment should definitely be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8056	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. The first is Honorable representative of Silvan Hrelje, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8057	Dear colleague Mikulić, I am all the time here in favour of very precise formulations of the law but also of what we say. I must remind you that on two occasions in your discussion you said local administration and self-government. So, the local administration doesn't exist, that we understand each other. There's a local self-government, and let's be exact here. Secondly, I agree with you that the only thing relevant can be a map of noise for an assessment. I don't agree too much with the assessment of noise indicators because one impulse noise is an overrun but does not affect the overall noise level itself, it can be overrun but the overall tolerance level does not affect because it lasts very briefly. And the third thing, and the second thing that I disagree with is the next thing you know, this can be noise protection is an interdisciplinary area, in my opinion, and it can also belong to environmental protection and construction but it primarily belongs to health protection. And I think this is a good position, here I defend the position of the Ministry of Health that it deals with the impact of noise on human health and the quality of human life. And I think it's a dominant position. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8058	Thank you. The distinguished representative Andrija Mikulić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8059	Honorable representative, so when I say something, then I stand behind every word I say. You have one concept of colloquial. Now I ask you something, what is the status of one of the four cities listed in this document called the City of Zagreb? Who has the status and unit of local administration and regional self-government. ... Wait a minute, so your experience in the Croatian Parliament that you're throwing at me is so strange to me on the experience you have. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But it's probably where you come from. So when is the questionnaire then I ask what about the City of Zagreb? We must have uniform treatment and interpretation. But for that, we need to sit down and study some of the legislation that it says. And when we talk about environmental protection and construction, then it's two concepts in the Republic of Croatia. As far as I know the structure of the body of the state administration and the ministry, so I did not say and should not defend the position of the ministry, no, but in my presentation I spoke about the need to see some of the experiences of European countries where noise is in the environmental protection system. And by the definition of a famous Einstein scientist, he defined that the environment was all that wasn't me.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8060	Yes, go ahead. The breach of the Rules of Procedure was raised by a respected representative of Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8061	Your Honor, Mr. President, in time, I have raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure because I ask you to ask the counsel to specify what it is you come from or from where you are from. What does it mean to instruct someone in regionality? Maybe we're thinking differently through U.S.A.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8062	I don't understand who's hurt by that? What was the injured article of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8063	Mr. Representative said that, maybe that's you. I'm saying, maybe it's common to you. You know you can't take life into the parameters of consciousness. Just let me know what that means where you come from.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8064	Excuse me, colleague Hrelja, you've done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. What article of the Rules of Procedure is hurt, or do you think that he is injured? [[Intruder Hrelja: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8065	2014
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8066	Article 214? He doesn't say anything about it at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8067	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8068	Therefore, I ask you once again and all those who intend to do so in the future not to abuse the institution's injury to the Rules of Procedure to express any opinion, justifiably, unwarrantedly, like this or like that. The Rules of Procedure have made certain matters very clear and precise, and please do not abuse the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. Now, a distinguished representative, Josip Boric, has come forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8069	Thank you very much. My colleague Mikulić and I, as you do, support this law as part of harmonising with EU legislation. However, what is the problem other than this law we have a rule that also solves some more detailed problems that occur in settlements, outside settlements, etc. The problem is that this rule which is more precisely called the Regulation that determines the most permissible levels of noise in the environments where people work and stay, does not recognise the specificities that we have in the area of the Republic of Croatia. One of these specificities is also ferry ports. And what's happening to us? On one side we have a country that encourages the development of the island, i.e. We have, on the other hand, the fact that the punishment of the shipowners entering ports and ships in populated ports, settlements and, of course, that the inspections are acting under that rule that I am thinking from 2004, so I would ask the ministry gentlemen here and to intervene in that rule, given that it is likely that it has been a few years, that we have five points within which noise levels are determined. I think it's also necessary to introduce a sixth where such an opportunity would be to punish the shipowners for maintaining the lines between the island and the mainland. And of course everyone who rebels or wants some kind of peace comes into a situation to complain then to the ministry, then the inspections act and punish the shipowner. Recently, a boatman was punished for doing his job. It connects the island to the mainland and enters the only possible port it has and that is the port in the populated area. I think we have to solve these absurdities, and even with the help of saying not only these changes, we took out the airports here but let's go with the ferry ports that don't happen that, and we don't have solutions for these things except move the ferry port then. But then it's a whole new investment cycle or something. We can't build walls 25 meters high or 20 meters high to protect someone from that level of noise. Here's just one example of what we're coming up with and how maybe we should work it out in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8070	Thanks will be answered by the distinguished representative Andrija Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8071	Dear Representative Boric, I absolutely agree with you. So that's why we have laws that can't solve things in detail but we have lower sublaws that have to work it out. And this is exactly the opportunity with what you said to the airport that in cooperation with local administration and self-government units, with shipowners, with all interested by the ministry ministers with their associates, they recognize this problem and integrate it into those regulations. That's a really good and quality suggestion. Well, it doesn't make sense to move the port for the noise of the ferry or to go to the construction of new locations and search, to build new ports when we can do it by means of a sublegal act very simply. It is an act brought by the head of the ministry, or signed by it. So his signature confirms it. Therefore, we have good, high - quality professionals who deal with the subject. Here in one synergy of all interested people we can come up with a common solution that will certainly be good and quality and in the interest of all.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8072	Thank you very much. We'd like to conclude a debate on this point. And before that, we will be told by the esteemed Deputy Minister of Health Ivan Bekavac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8073	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. First of all, thank you for the understanding that you have actually shown here by recognising the importance of amending and supplementing the Noise Protection Act. Also, thank you for the numerous constructive proposals that will find a safe place in the new rules that we will have to adopt in the order of adoption of this law by emergency procedure. We cannot accept the amendment of the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection, which is reportedly trying to return transparency to the accreditation and read accreditation process because, as explained and explained earlier, it has been on the health ministry's website for years and everything is completely transparent and clear. And by the way, I'll also let you know that the same procedure has not been published in the People's Journal for years either. Therefore, in order to speed up this process and reduce just red tape and give momentum to the entrepreneurial spirit in Croatia, I think it is entirely justified to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8074	Dear Deputy Minister, as far as the amendments are concerned, you can't accept that, but when you vote on it. Of course the government has to talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8075	I just wanted to clarify the Ministry's opinion on this proposal, actually meet the ladies and gentlemen of the MPs with the circumstances in which they are. Well, if we've cleared up these misunderstandings about acceptance and rejection, we're actually going to, we're going to conclude by the rules that we need to change what we need to do in cross-resor communication with other ministries and certainly with local administration bodies. We need the urgency here when the law is passed because we have until autumn to prepare the map noise. I would like to point out here another fact that is important and that, over the past period with foreign consultants, has tried to come from a solution, an article that has been presented to us, not to us but rather to the earlier period, the foreign consultant has been completely unusable and therefore we, not us, but, therefore, Croatia has not been able to prepare a noise map and in fact in the second cycle to participate in the adoption of the EU regulation, so we are obliged to implement this procedure as soon as possible in order to have a basis for making a noise map in order to get involved in the third cycle of implementation that I was talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8076	Thank you very much. And with that, I'm fully concluding the debate on this point. We'll vote when we get the conditions for her. The following is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Noise Protection, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 24. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. During the debate, the proposing representative did not accept the amendment of the Committee. We move to a vote on an amendment of the Committee that the Government does not accept. Please engage and let's vote. What's the score? 28 votes for, 3 abstentions, 69 against. Therefore, I find that the proposed amendment has not received the required number of votes. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Noise Protection Act. Please vote. Who's up for the proposal? The vote is over. 93 votes for, seven abstentions, one against. I find that most of the votes have been passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Noise Protection Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8079	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the council. Therefore, amendments and additions to the Law on genetically modified organisms are brought into line with EU rules in such a way as to provide for the legal basis for the possible restriction or prohibition of the cultivation of genetically modified organisms at work or throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Among other things, the method of adoption as the existence of genetically modified crops and conventional integrated and organic farming of products is laid down and the rights and obligations of the competent central authorities of the state administration are defined and a clearer division of competences related to the exercise of official controls is specified. The ministry accepts the Committee's proposal to pass the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on genetically modified organisms through two readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8080	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No representative of the board wants to take a word for it. Dear Representative Jakovina, here you are as representative of the Committee on Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8081	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 7th session of the 20th April draft law amending and supplementing the laws on genetically modified organisms with the Final Proposal of the Law, which was submitted by the Government to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 6 April. That draft law has been examined by the Committee in accordance with the provisions of the Article. 179. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as an interested body. The opening statement was presented by the Assistant Minister of Health, a representative of the proposer. Following a long and constructive debate, the Committee on Agriculture unanimously proposed that the Croatian Assembly adopt the following law on the amendment law and amendments to the Law on a genetically modified organism should conduct a discussion in two readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8082	Thank you very much. So we have a proposal committee to conduct the debate in two readings. Now we're facing a little bit of a problem here, which is, in fact, it's actually decided on the occasion of the agenda. So, we decide on the urgency or urgency of the procedure on the occasion of the adoption of the agenda. As a rule, when the European law is then we generally always accept the urgency of the procedure. Of course, we may decide otherwise if we are to consider that this law is to be passed in two readings. But I'm saying again, it's usually determined by the occasion of the agenda, not by the occasion of the debate. ... But I don't have board reports. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] And I don't know, yeah. ... In two, three days or what? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Let's get on with the dot. So now we've had the committee's rapporteurs. I would now open the debate and the first on behalf of the HRID's Club of Representatives and Independent Representatives of Shandoor Juhasa, a prominent representative of Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8083	Dear President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, respected rapporteurs. It is really important here that a large part of Croatian citizens do not even know about the existence of the GMO Act in Croatia that actually exists since 2005. I have to admit, I didn't know all the details myself when I first met this problem. Since then, there have been several amendments to that law since 2005. And the amendments to this law are, in fact, a provision of harmonisation with EU directives, which is actually logical because Croatia is an EU member. However, what is important is that despite the existence of this law in Croatia we still do not have answers to the most important questions about genetically modified food or crops, and there are many issues. Why don't we have answers? According to that phrase, where the law is unarranged and where it is not stated correctly can be interpreted in several ways. And the law of 2005 is this one, including all these supplements, in fact, the simplest way, unspeakable, and we are free to say that the law is divorced. So it's not only clear to us as laymen but also to lawyers. The fact is that no one can dispute that GMOs are present on the Croatian market, but not only on the product-shaped market, but also on the soil in the form of crops. There's a lot of questions like I said. First, customers aren't really informed enough. Secondly, product labels are completely different and non-transparent. Even for many, it's confusing. You have, for example, products where a portion of GMO raw materials is used in production but is not marked. This product is still listed as being GMO free. The question is, by law it is said that 0.9% if in product 0.9% of GMOs this product is still GMO free. So the question is whether to remain at that percentage of 0.9%, or maybe some new amendment to the law will go into an even bigger percentage. But we have people who don't want that 0.9%, so they want a completely GMO free product, not to be written 0.9%, so to tell them it's GMO free, but it still has 0.9%. Then why wouldn't these people also be able to choose. So if they want a GMO product with zero percent of GMOs and not 0.9, then these people should also be given the option of choice. So, what I stand for. Citizens should be given a clear opportunity to buy a product on which they clearly and unequivocally stand on what is in this product and how much, not something that is general and what is unclear and what is more confusing than transparent to make it possible. So the rules must be clear and unequivocal. If we have a clear regulation both legal and sublaw, then there's no room for camouflage and selling something we don't know what it really is. But as clearly as products must be marked and clear rules should be marked and crops. We currently have a situation in Slavonia where, where a certain percentage of crops are actually crops that are GMOs. But are they properly marked? Are they marked as such? I'm not sure. So I also advocate transparency and unequivocality. And in this respect, if a producer wants to use cereals, soybean or any other GMO seed, then it must clearly indicate that it uses that raw material as this raw material must be clearly marked on the crop that it is GMO raw material. So the problem is the import. We have countries in the EU that have different legislation. And what about when Croatia imports from such a country? This country, for example, we have an example, is not obliged to state and there are a lot of such countries whether or not it is a product of GMOs and to what extent it is. And it may happen, therefore, that the use of such raw materials allows this law to be produced, but then on our product in Croatia it is placed that it is GMO free considering that percentage of 0.9. It says in the law that there's a competent inspection, but that part isn't finished either. We have an example that one country is the largest food producer in Europe and it is interesting that imports from that country in Croatia increased by 17% last year. The question is, is food imports from such countries particularly controlled? I don't think so, and I don't think so, but I'm sure, because in that sense, the law isn't fixed, and that's also a very important question. Another example, let's say we import seeds from BiH where 67% of GMOs were found from the 2013 and 2014 analysis, which is very surprising, for example, by a high percentage. Every year, analysis of the presence of GMOs in food is carried out, thus increasing numbers. It's clear that the border controls imports, and that's fine, that's how it should be. And since you've already found some GMO product, why is it just an oral warning? Why is the public not familiar with the open and transparent GMO product and from which country? And then what will be done further in that sense? It's also unspeakable. Another example, a public call for selecting legal persons for risk assessment for the purpose of deliberately releasing GMOs into the environment was recently published on the health ministry pages. Here's literally the title. And now the citizens are wondering what that even means? It's so general, it's almost some kind of floscula, it's a man who's graduated from college and even can't understand from this title anymore what it means and actually there's no further explanation or can be interpreted in various ways. I have, of course, learned the answer but that answer is not very clear and I am not happy with it. And to conclude, we need what's most important here is what it is, it's been passed in 2005, we have changes, we have alignments, and that's all right. However, it remains unclear, it remains ambiguous and citizens still do not know what they are buying and do not know what they are eating. And now I hope that the changes to the laws next that will go exactly this way because we can't now in this sense when we've come to where we've come to ban GMOs. I don't think any government would be able to do that right now. My personal opinion is my personal opinion, but citizens are the most important here. So if GMOs are already present then only openness and transparency. Let the citizens decide, therefore, a clear label on the product and the question of what matters is whether these 0.9% will still be considered if the product has 0.9% that it is GMO free or will God not give the next amendments to the law go in this direction? I hope not. And I don't think that's the way to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8084	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas. The first one is the distinguished representative of Gordana Rusak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8085	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable President of the Parliament. The fact that in Slavonia there are fields planted with corn that are actually GMOs should certainly be checked, and if that fact is correct then it is an extremely alarming situation. Why is it alarming? I will present it in my discussion, or in my presentation as a university professor in biology. And I will add the fact that the introduction of GMOs into the environment is approved by the committee or committee that exists, which makes its recommendation to the council responsible for this problem. According to my knowledge, this committee did not give permission to bring GMOs into the environment in the Republic of Croatia. If that's what I'm saying, it needs to be checked, and then the situation is really worrying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8086	Thank you. The distinguished representative Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic will respond, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8087	I thank you for the replica. In my presentation, I didn't make any unverified facts. So all I've said including this crop information in Slavonia is information that's been verified. Why aren't those authorities familiar with it, why they didn't do something, etc., I wouldn't go into it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8088	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Davor Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8089	Thank you very much, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's my replica is similar to that of Mrs. Irene, since I have here an official response from the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the citizens who have also expressed their suspicion that crops exist in Croatia with GMO plants the official response is that in Croatia there is no import of GMO reproductive material, that it cannot be bought GMO seeds, cannot be sown for experimental purposes and no radiation or planting of GMO plants is tolerated. In addition, all Slavonian counties have decided at their county assemblies that they want to be a GMO free county. Therefore, I see no reason to know that such crops exist in certain fields and that they do not report to the competent inspection and the competent Ministry of Agriculture and require the immediate destruction of them. And those who did it were sanctioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8090	Thank you. The distinguished representative Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic will respond. He won't? Thank you. Dear Representative Franjo Lucic is next in line.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8091	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, esteemed colleagues of Irena agree with your debate, and I was just talking to the board this morning about no matter what the position of the Croatian Parliament and the Committee and the Government is against GMO products, we are not even aware of it, or simply do not approve of it, that first of all I will not tell us such products come directly but through food and through what we import is safely coming because our imports are not controlled today. Today, at Croatian borders, we have no control over both those veterinary and each other, and simply through the products that come to us in Croatia, we certainly get through the production of modified food produced in the EU. I am therefore both a representative and a man who is on the Committee in Agriculture and who comes from Slavonia and Baranja, and I believe that we are all Slavons and Baranians so as not to allow the products that have been modified in Croatia because we are so rich that we can produce so much healthy food for the Croatian population and for our people. And we today are free to say with this cream opera that has been going on for years we allow ourselves to enter in Croatia really products in which the content of GMOs is. So we really have to deal with it, and I'm also concerned with the statement by the assistant lady who said that we only control 4 times a year on the entry products of GMO content because there is no money ministry. Well it's really for worry, we have to do everything to make it different and not like today.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8092	Thank you. The distinguished representative Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8093	I agree with you fellow, especially this word schlemperaj describes the situation well. When we say who's in charge of what we've got, it hasn't been worked out yet. So as long as there's room that everything is ambiguous and unspeakable, it's actually going to be that schlamper you mentioned. We as one small country have such potentials, and for organic agriculture we have great potentials. And now that we've come all the way here where we've come from, it's hard now it's all from the beginning. But what to fix I've already listed in my presentation and it should go in that direction. I hope that there will be hearing in that direction, that there will be understanding, that you will listen to Croatian citizens because citizens should not be underestimated, they certainly know what GMO food is. But this question of crops, so it's a little something that we're not discussing enough so far. We're all talking about GMO food, GMO products, and we're not talking about GMO crops. So I'm glad that this issue came as a problem too, and I hope that some measures will be taken on this issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8094	Thank you very much. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative of Ladislav Ilčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8095	Thank you, Mr. President, I've answered the line for the same reason as my colleagues, so I'll just keep on doing it. So not only has not received any culture, GMO culture has not been granted a license to set up in the Republic of Croatia, but no multinational agro company has submitted a single request for any GMO culture. So I really think, the thing is, if you know about any culture that grows in Slavonia, GMO culture that it's a thing then repressive, so obviously illegal shops and repressive apparatus. So from the inspection to the police who need to investigate it and I don't think it should be a problem at least in agriculture where you can clearly see through the grantshop whose field is, who planted it, and therefore to trace who's breaking the law. Because as Mrs. Rusak said, it's alarming if you get something like that... because we know how much it is, the danger of GMOs is, in fact, the fundamental negativeity of GMOs is precisely in its adverse effect on biodiversity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It means how much it's spreading to other fields, to insects, etc. who can then really have an adverse effect on our total agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8096	Thank you. The distinguished representative Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8097	I agree with you, as far as I know, Croatia has submitted 8 exemptions for the areas, I do not know exactly the date. What is worrying here, I will take what is within my capabilities as a representative in the Croatian Parliament. However, if this initiative comes from me, it's not a problem, but then I ask you what the authorities are doing. One thing is what's written on paper and the other is what's in practice. So we have a theory and practice of how it usually happens in Croatia, what the competent authorities do, what the ministry does, what the government does, and so on, when you're all doing research over what I said. I'm not, by nature, the kind of person who brings out unverified facts. So I call really responsible bodies to do their jobs and what's in my power as an agent I'll make sure you take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8098	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8099	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, I must say I didn't get what you wanted from your debate well enough. In fact, when we talk about GMO products, we are talking about cultivation and cultivation of GMO products and crops, and on the other hand we are talking about trade, i.e. the release of GMO products. You say that you have a personal view of this and that the Government is unable to end up establishing a ban on the marketing or trading of GMOs. For years, there has been an initiative for the Republic of Croatia to declare itself a GMO free zone and I think that there should be no different reflections in that part of the government and neither in the Assembly on whether Croatia can really be when it comes to cultivation and cultivation of the GMO free zone. And I think that on the trail of decisions made by certain county congregations, Croatia could indeed be defined as part of the Alps of the Adria region. The second thing is, and here I agree with you the part relating to trade or the placing on the market of GMO products, there is already a slightly more complicated situation and in that part is not the Government simply or necessary to reach a consensus. Or what is important is that certain products are fully known whether or not GMOs are products and not to be left as counterpart Lucic said just before in the part where he traffics and trades with GMOs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8100	Thank you. The distinguished representative Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8101	Thanks for the line. Which means GMO free country. You have one Belgium where part of Belgium, one region is completely free for all GMOs, another region is GMOs free. Who says that tomorrow's new amendment to the law or this indetermination won't do it in Croatia, so we'll now have a colloquial say one part of Croatia will be GMO free, the other part won't. What does this eight exceptions mean for the country? That means something's gonna shine there, which we don't actually know. I have my own personal position, but I'm more concerned with Croatian citizens. Therefore, citizens should be clearly given the opportunity. Whoever wants to eat GMO cereal will buy it and to whom it says it's GMOs, the one who won't, he won't. So I repeat, it's not fixed and there's room for finishing but it's done in that sense that I've already said twice.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8102	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Lovrinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8103	Dear Representatives of Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, I noticed in your presentation of two things. One is that you claim that some areas in Slavonia are sown, meaning cultivation of GMO products and another that it cannot be prohibited to use GMO products in Croatia. So the first question is whose responsibility is to sow and grow something that is forbidden, so it can't be grown because we're not here to let the citizens watch us talk, but to solve problems. In your opinion, whose address is who we'd have to deal with. And do you think it's necessary to disable both the production and trade of GMO products or just the production and trade that allows, let's say. We don't produce GMO products but we can import them. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8104	The distinguished representative Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8105	So, I advocate a transparent and clear labelling on the products either imported, or domestic. It's a question at the store. The question of crops is still unsaid. You say, I claim to sow, but it sows, if the government knows, that's already a question. So we can't go back five steps now that we have some kind of law. If the law is going to change completely, then we can say nothing now. But we are a member of the EU, we are bound by some directives, and we have made these directives, we have actually gone through the amendments to this law to adhere to those directives. Now to what extent will we fight for our sovereignty in the EU, and we will say, we will be sovereign in this regard. We will not know to be completely GMO free, we will stop at 09% and we will not go further, it is a matter of lobbying, it is a matter of government, it is a matter of executive authority and it is the position and foreign minister in the EU. So these are all the things that are being negotiated because Croatia is an EU member and Croatia has the right to seek certain things, whether for fisheries, whether for GMOs, or for any relevant item. To what extent this will go, I have no answer to that question. I know how it should be, but I'm saying to some extent we've come. Now that we've come to that extent, let's get things straight, let's go fix what we can fix. Let's take care of what we can do. If there's no will, there's no way.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8106	Thank you. The next club will be representative of the SDSS Reformist and will speak on his behalf the distinguished representative of Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8107	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Health, colleagues and colleagues. I will say, on behalf of the SDSS and Reformers, our position on the problem and GMO food and GMO seeds. As we have said in the last term when the first text, the basics and text of this law were adopted and our opinion will not change much compared to those times. We think this is a very serious matter. GMOs are a very serious topic, everywhere in the world especially in EU countries, as is the TitiP Transatlantic Treaty a very serious topic and unfortunately there is no impression that these serious topics are being discussed in our political space, in public, media space. I don't feel like we're ready to explain to people the basics, the basic benefits and the basic dangers that both the GMO model and the TITIP bring. We are more inclined to discuss some ideological differences daily than to discuss these specific problems, and that is not good. If we followed, we saw that in both France and Germany people were going out to the squares, hundreds of thousands of people came out, publicly saying what the citizens of these countries thought about these topics and were not affirmative in these expressions on these topics. In addition, we see that the Proposer has proposed that these amendments to the law be adopted by emergency procedure. I don't see why it couldn't go into two readings and then you'd get some sense of serious access to such serious debates. As far as the law itself is concerned, I'll say a few things. First, it was determined by the European Commission's new view that countries are autonomous in the implementation of GMO policy and have shifted practical responsibility to domicile states to create that policy. Given the general coverage of the state, given the regional coverage of the state, and I think that's good, that's a good step. In the law itself, this is well defined because we have strengthened the legal standards of responsibility of certain inspection services. Of course, this control mechanism remains to be done better in a way that is better accompanied by material resources. Because as we heard today on the board and fellow Lucic said well, the problem arises naturally with money. And unless we seriously prepare serious money to put this control mechanism into operation, let's not expect to have quality market surveillance and our import components. Then if we do it the way we were once said in one quarter, then three, four times a year, import controls of GMO products are done. What is not good in this law is the fact that we have left GMO politics to the government. This law makes it clear that a government that today has a very tough zero tolerance attitude towards GMOs tomorrow may change that by its decision. Of course, the government is running politics, but I think this is too serious and this should be discussed at Parliament level. So that's what the Parliament should say its last word. So if we create a state policy in such a turbulent sphere, then that's where the Parliament should say the last word, not the Government. The second thing that is not good here is in the transitional and final provisions of Article 17. I don't know if you noticed. All that through the law was installed as a mechanism for controlling the GMO system and even a laboratory to control was left to the ministry to handle it through two years. Right? I think it's an inappropriately long deadline. The question arises how will the control system, so de facto lab work in the next two years if we wait for the government to settle the acts in two years, over 24 months. What's going to happen during this 24-month interregnum? So we're not going to control this import of GMO components. And that's the point. So the concept of the law is pretty good, it's reinforced compared to the previous solution. However, because of these two shortcomings, I believe these are shortcomings, firstly that the Government cannot implement this kind of policy alone and finally without the consent of the debate, without the consent of the Croatian Parliament. And secondly, these deadlines must be more appropriate in order to put the entire control mechanism into operation as soon as possible. Now I'm going to say the reasons why we're very skeptical at the SDSS club towards GMO components, because there are certain analyses that have been conducted on our domestic market. I think it's good to know how to have a certain relationship with it and, of course, some experiences from the world. In our analysis carried out in our premises last year, only 7% of our people, our respondents, would consume GMO food. 58 would never consume them. The greatest reluctance towards GMO food is shown in the area of Dalmatia and in northern Croatia. That might be one topic to think about. As for market studies in the world, world market studies say from the point of view the benefits can be read and opinions that genetically modified crops do not benefit farmers in the world. This is important to say, because problems such as increased use of herbicides, unequal performance, poor economic gain for farmers have been identified. But it is also indicated that the strengthening of the corporate monopoly on food has a consequence of the poverty of family farms around the world. It is also known that the example of Brazilian producers, somewhere around 5 million Brazilian producers, has become bankrupt because they have become dependent on monsanto seeds that have been increasingly expensive and expensive each year, and it is bound, therefore, as drugs are related to this type of production. That's what you don't publicly say. Medical studies say that the use of GMOs, however, increases the risk of allergies in humans and domestic animals. Specially, such experiences are in the United States, Ireland and England that we must respect. They say the increase in allergic reactions is 50% higher after the start of the use of GMOs in Great Britain, Ireland and the United States. A prominent English scientist, Sir William Marshel, even declared it a phantom food. So these are some things that should be for us like this in the small brain when we talk about the real dangers that bring about the trend of genetically modified food. A similar situation and similar studies were conducted at French scientific institutes. She showed a special study that monsanto corn in the class NK 603 is the most used hybrid corn in the world, and next to it is a herbicide called Round Up and it creates one dependence on the market. And that's exactly why monsanto's unwanted, because that way through that herbicide and through that hybrid binds everything, the whole market binds to its production. And that's the goal of the monopoly of these great producers. The balance sheet says, in view of the impact on the ecology of GMO seeds around 40 GMO seed models on 160 million hectares as represented in the world, more than 40,000 varieties, hybrids created for generations created by science over time were destroyed. Practically, one scientific gain from this area has been reduced, destroyed and reduced to only 40 GMO food models that control the matter to be bigger than only 3 corporations in the world. And that's all the logic of this job. How it works in the European Parliament, I will just say and I will call on an interesting article, I will withdraw the parallel, which was published by our Europarliamentary representative in Parliament, Mrs Biljana Borzana, who said that the whole story works at Brussels level. So he says the controversy over Montsant's product spread when the International Cancer Research Agency announced last year that it probably causes human cancer. The European Food Safety Authority subsequently announced that it disagreed and allowed imports, production of such seeds for a period of 15 years. The Commission therefore disagrees, and the Commission considers that the 15-year period is too long and has set a 7-year deadline. Therefore, the whole story revolves around some interesting spheres, about the influence of corporate capital both here and in Brussels, and the whole thing ends in a way that GMO product will still come where it should come from. And in some ways this seems to me to be a certain cynicism of the Brussels policy towards the issue of GMO food. We are of course fully aware that GMO food is everywhere, that GMO elements are everywhere. There is one to be absolutely clear today on the shelves in our products, there are them in ketchups, sauces, soup bags, dice in spices, there are some GMOs in drinks, all kinds of beer, coffees, peps, etc., there are them in bakery products. So we can't avoid this thing anymore today. The question is how much we as a society will be able to control this thing and control it in a way that is as little harmful to consumer health as possible. Therefore, as a club, we believe that this legal text that is this reinforced in relation to the first solution could be acceptable provided it is defined, that the competence of the implementation of the GMO policy is transferred to the Croatian Parliament rather than to be a general government policy and that you amend this Article 17, which is very important if we want the entire system to be functioning in a short time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8108	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. The first one is the distinguished representative of Ante Mayor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8109	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's what's come out of this already, and as far as we know, GMOs are actually getting the impression that it's all there, that it's showing up as some phantom phenomenon. I agree with my colleague Horvat that the Croatian Parliament should actually take a more precise role in this matter. I don't know what it would look like or if any body, committees already exist, commission or I don't know what kind of question would be constantly or occasionally followed. And you should follow the import of seeds, seeds as permitted and as far as it's not allowed, I don't know it yet, but in any case it appears legally or illegally. Furthermore, it should monitor what crops are beyond the control they're talking about, and then they won't exist at all. It's this phantom phenomenon about that question. Then we have imports of finished products. What's going on? It happens that our people who have a chance to put GMOs on the market don't have any competition just because they're cheaper than those who are GMOs, and they're not fully specified or sanctioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8110	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Mile Horvat will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8111	Thank you, dear colleague. I have been quite clear there and I remain with this claim that the Croatian Parliament should be the one to determine which direction GMO politics will go in the Republic of Croatia. The government should discuss this, of course we should discuss the profession, the government should make a measurement decision, the proposal to the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Parliament through the debate should say that Croatia will be free or will not be a free GMO country. Either a region will be that way or it won't be that way. Of course, when I say the region, then I think that through a debate in this House, we should respect the opinion of the representatives of the region to which this would apply. It's the essence of things. And then we can kind of calmerly look at the whole GMO project. Inspectorates play an extremely responsible role because they are expected to control and prevent exactly what has been suggested to be happening on our food market. We can ban the production of GMO seeds from us if we are food that has GMO elements imported as said on the board today and it is food to our meat producers. So we directly eat meat that has GMO components in it. And it's a vicious circle. That is why this profession needs to be taken seriously and, of course, inspections should do their job seriously, not a way to make it known through quarterly controls during the year.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8112	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Lucian Vukelic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8113	Thank you. Dear fellow Horvat, I just wanted to say a few things that already seem to be here that aren't quite understood. This law is adopted in order to enable the Republic of Croatia to determine the areas in which it will be grown or not and whether it will be complete by the Republic of Croatia but only because our euro-parliamentaries could also be manifested and take part in discussions on committees and in the European Parliament, and that such decisions could be taken at all. So what we're saying right now seems to me to be lar pur lar. And the other thing I wanted to mention is that the problem here is also extremely important and present because of the imports of that same food. But it is not just a matter of importing food, importing from the EU, importing animal and plant origin, genetically modified organisms for which the border veterinary inspection of the central authority of the state administration is responsible. Then non-animal origin is the competent border inspection of the central part of the state administration, animal and non-animal origin is the border veterinary inspection of the central part of the public administration responsible for affairs, etc. I believe that here with point 11 above the labelling of food and genetically modified food from a quality aspect is carried out in accordance with the prescribed regulation laying down the implementation of official control of food and feed of animals according to the division of jurisdiction from point 6 to point 9 of this paragraph in accordance with the prescribed law. So that's all there is to it, it's just about spending it the same thing, that's all. inspection services, sanitary, veterinary, fitness and, of course, we did not mention that there is also a pharmaceutical industry, that medicines, that are creams for, etc., etc. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8114	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Mile Horvat will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8115	I agree with you in many things, but I do not agree with the conclusion that this debate should have the character of the debate lar lar, so it is not good if that is the case. Here should be a basic debate, in this House, a basic debate on GMO policy in the Republic of Croatia. And on the basis of such a debate, then Europarliamentarians can act on the subject. Therefore, basic policy needs to be implemented here, and I insisted on it. It can be, of course, that everything has a key role for the government, and our Europarliamentaries have a key role to play in this, but the last word about this whole policy must be implemented here in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8116	And the final debate, that is, is the replica of the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8117	Thank you very much. Col. Horvat, it is easy to pass the law, it is easy to legislate the directives and the EU acquis, but the question arises whether we have put instruments to control all this together. So only if you remember the headlines last year from some media veterinary institute swallowed up the Food Agency. Second, a constant conflict regardless of what political option was in power between the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health who was responsible for which inspection. Now, if these inspections and agencies and institutes were to control what was happening on the ground, they would cooperate and that everyone was really doing what was in his jurisdiction, then we wouldn't be afraid of much. But since they're like horns in a bag and it's like you're sticking a grilled stake into the ground, then we can pass a great law here today. And the ministry can send a clear message with that law that it wants to achieve. However, just remember the abolition of the state inspectorate, so that the ministers would strengthen themselves, because, with the law passed, that they had control and control of the implementation of these laws, the foreign inspectorate was abolished. Instead of fighting on independent institutions that should even submit reports to this House of Highs, how the practical application of the laws we adopt is implemented. And here this law is good, it regulates a lot but I repeat to you just remember last year somewhere at this time a great story has started for you that the Food Agency is not working, that it should be here and there and eventually the Veterinary Institute will swallow up the Food Agency. Not to mention a series of other inspections. Just start with the sanitary inspection. Whose jurisdiction she's under and what she's doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8118	Thank you very much. Now we would move on to the next Club of Representatives and that's the SDP on whose behalf the distinguished representative Sinisha Varga will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8119	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the honorary representatives of the Ministry of Health, colleagues and colleagues. The GMO law regulates the handling of GMOs and thus, in order to limit the use of GMOs, the intentional introduction of GMOs into the environment. The placing of GMOs and products containing or consisting of GMOs on the market, in handling, transport, packaging, waste management, responsibility for the damage caused by the illicit use of GMOs, shall be prescribed by the authorities responsible for the implementation of the law as well as the manner in which the reporting of the central coordinating body and in the European Commission is handled. The methods and techniques of official control shall be described in order to protect human and animal health and to preserve the environment to the impact of GMOs in the area of the Republic of Croatia as well as a number of infringements. That law contains provisions which are in line with the EU set of directives and regulations, however, at EU level on 13 March 2015, Directive EU/2015/412 of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2001/18/EC as regards the possibility of a Member State to restrict or prohibit GMO cultivation in its national territory and that is the novelty that adopts these amendments and supplemental laws. These Member States will, on the principle of subsidiarity, allow for more flexibility in deciding whether or not they want to raise GMOs in their territory without affecting the risk assessment provided for in the EU system for the approval of GMOs, either during or after approval. It is clear that the right to decide on GMO cultivation in the work or whole area of the Member State as well as the freedom to choose consumers, farmers and economic operators, all participants in the area of GMO cultivation will be allowed. EU Member States, as well as the Republic of Croatia, are also required by the directive to limit or fully prohibit GMO cultivation in the work or in the entire territory of the EU Member State. On 17 September 2015, the Republic of Croatia sent 9 letters of exemption to the Directive in accordance with this Directive requiring the adaptation of the geographical area for 9 genetically modified plant cultures. This law further provides for legal persons to restrict or prohibit GMO cultivation in part or throughout the Republic of Croatia and defines measures to restrict or prohibit GMO cultivation in the work or in the entire territory of Croatia depending on the type and type of GMOs. The legislative proposal also lays down the basis for the development, procedure, restriction or prohibition of GMO cultivation in the work or the entire area of the Republic of Croatia, which has so far not been possible because of the lack of legal framework. Finally, given that this law extends the scope of the law on the restriction or prohibition of GMOs in the work or whole of the Republic of Croatia and the legislative proposal complements the current legislative framework for transposition into national law of Council Directive 2015/412, which will continue to bring national legislation in line with the new acquis governing the area of prohibition, cultivation of GMOs in part or in the whole of the territory of the country. The SDP Club will support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on genetically modified organisms, noting that the Government bears a high level of responsibility for strict application of the law. Namely, the method of co-existence of genetically modified crops and conventional, integrated and eco-bred agricultural products in the Republic of Croatia with particular emphasis on border areas with the aim of avoiding possible cross-border contamination in neighbouring countries will be established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Ministry of Agriculture in cooperation with the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. The previous government has declared on the international agenda how familiar I am at a conference in Berlin that RH GMO is a free country and we expect the current government to continue this policy without raising large multinational GMO producers who are constantly at our door. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8120	Thank you. Next on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers- Party of Labour, the next will be taken by the distinguished representative Nancy Tyreli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8121	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the health ministry, colleagues and colleagues. What I would like to point out at first is, in particular, the urgency of this procedure. I am pleased that today the Committee on Agriculture has reached a conclusion that it is going into another reading, and I think that this practice where we are harmonising our legislation with EU laws is not good under the urgent procedure because we have already made sure that because of the urgency of the EU Directive, we are passing it on to our legislation as we should not, so I will only mention one example to you, and these are our unfortunate divisions where the directive writes one thing and we, in our laws, another. And here I am, hoping this law will be passed in two readings. We in Croatia have long been talking about the GMO free country, that we want to seriously deal with organic agricultural production, that we want to be a recognizable tourist destination that offers guests a healthy and environmentally acceptable environment and because of everything we advocate and what we want, if we really want, it is necessary that any changes to the laws regarding GMOs approach very consciously and seriously. This law, as it stands, is made by an urgent procedure. For the purposes of voting with the working bodies and committees of the European Commission on proposals submitted, implementing decisions concerning the placing on the market of EU GMOs and GM plant cultures intended for use, for cultivation. The Member State may vote against only if it has previously come from the European Commission to exempt the territory of the state for GMO cultivation. Therefore, if, as a country, we want to limit the cultivation of certain GMs of plant cultures in order to develop indigenous plant, organic and conventional species, domestic hybrids and domestic production, we must have the basis for that vote, which we define by the provisions of this law. But let us not forget that Croatia has done so so far and that we have already stated whether or not we want GMOs in Croatia. The Republic of Croatia is proud of the European Commission's request to exclude the work of the geographical area or the entire area of the Republic of Croatia for the cultivation of GMOs, but what concerns me personally is what my colleagues were stressing before me. And this is that the decision to ban GMO cultivation will be made by the Government on a proposal from the central government responsible for agriculture and forestry affairs. We are a state in which so far many of them have had to decide and we have witnessed that these people have made decisions to the harm of the citizens and only for their own benefit. Knowing how profitable GMO production would have to be to think exactly in a way that such a decision was made not by a few individuals, so it was by the government, but by the majority of citizens. Shall we call a referendum? Should we protect Croatia from GMOs by constitutional provision, it remains up to us to decide, but the fact is that we have to do something. The fact is also that all counties in the Republic of Croatia have long declared themselves a GMO free county which the Government, regardless of the opinion of the relevant body, should have taken into account. And when we put all this together, then we ask ourselves why we are still discussing whether Croatia is or is not a GMO free country. The other thing that concerns me is an article in this 10th law that mentions experimental fields with GMO cultures. We should seriously consider whether this law introduces GMOs into crops through the view of experimental fields in Croatian fields. Today, I have been asked why and why experimental fields on the Environment Committee have been answered by the promoters that these fields are introduced into the bill of this law as some kind of prevention, so that we have when we need them. If someone ever submits a request for approval of such an experimental field. But why? As far as I know, the Republic of Croatia does not produce GMO seeds and I do not see any sense in the trial crops of GMO culture. If we give this bill such a possibility at all, I have no doubt that the request will be immediately and not in a small number. Then who's going to decide? One of the only senior expert advisors to be hired by the Ministry of Agriculture, and his employment in this bill is justified by the fact that no one has mentioned today that GMOs are particularly important to the problem of economic but also political issues. It is also said that the area of genetically modified agricultural plant reproductive material is very complex and requires years of continuous work and improvement with the goal of allowing the Republic of Croatia to work on this issue in quality and professional terms. And precisely because it is all so complex, so serious and so wide we have decided to hire one of the only senior expert associates in the Ministry of Agriculture based on whose initiatives, I am going back to the beginning of my debate the Government or its opinion will make a decision on whether in Croatia GMOs yes or GMOs do not. And that's what might be the biggest problem of this bill. We heard today that it is good to adopt it because it is better than the one we had, because some things are defined in perhaps a more favourable way for the Republic of Croatia. But when we read all of this that's written inside of that one consultant who advises the government what and how it will do, if we also take into account these test fields that I mentioned, then we are really asking what kind of winds are blowing in Croatia and whether this is the kind of approach and this kind of cover-up and to bring Croatia's legislation into line with EU legislation in essence to the large corporations and producers of GMOs. We now have a board, we have a council, but it's obviously not enough for us, so I'm asking myself how one man, so he was also a senior expert associate at the Ministry of Agriculture can know more, quality of the GMO problem than any of those experts who are now sitting in the GMO Council. I think that by stalling, not defining, by not expressing the government's public stance on whether Croatia is or is not a country that GMOs do not want. We are entering a dangerous area of lobbyists and giving in under pressure from chemical industries such as monsants, duponts and some of their co-operatives that will allow the flow of risk technologies to produce GM crops and food for humans and animals. Labourists will be against this law precisely because of the ambiguity and this provision that the Government can and has the right to decide on behalf of all in one such way and on the basis of advice, suggestion or suggestion of a single senior expert. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8122	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8123	Thank you very much. Here from the previous debate is a question that no one has yet asked. So, they're looking for these test fields in Croatia, but they're not saying it's not defined where the test fields are going to be. Whether these test fields will be scattered throughout Croatia, whether to choose one region and say there are these test fields. So it's not the same definition, so we're going to have means here hypothetically in one region of experimental fields, and in other regions, illegal fields. Or, therefore, it is the same question that is very important and that needs to be defined and not defined.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8124	Thank you. The distinguished representative, Nancy Tyrelli, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8125	I thank my colleagues for the replica. Yeah, that's why I updated that particular test field. Because we're asking the first question we don't have them defined, the second question is, if these test fields are assigned to someone that we're going to the other region that isn't those test fields... What are we going to put in some kind of balloon or what are we going to do about it? [[You don't understand.]] And that's why I'm warning you right now. But what saddened me the most today is the answer of the proposing who says so we will put it into law as some kind of prevention, so if someone asks us for some test field that we still have this legal provision and that we can assign this test field immediately. Because I guess that goes to our development of production, opening new jobs, or I don't know what we're putting this kind of rhetoric and this kind of behavior into. But the fact is that we must seriously approach this and that we must not allow the decision to be made either by the experimental fields or by anything else and only by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And what no one has mentioned, too, because there is no law in it but there is an explanation of this law that we are hiring a new expert associate who will deal with the serious problem of GMOs. So, the contradiction that the larger one can't be, on the one hand, we're all aware of how much the introduction of GMOs anywhere is very, very dangerous, very, very risky and for the health and health of both people and animals and the environment and everything else, and on the other hand it will be decided and decided by one single person. His opinion and his views will be heard and heard by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and then the Government of the Republic of Croatia will make such decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8126	Thank you very much. Next on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists will speak the esteemed representative Josip Katalinić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8127	Thank you very much, esteemed President, esteemed representatives of the Ministry of Health, colleagues and fellow MPs. If we look back in history at the first significant commercial use of GMOs began large chemical multinational companies more than 20 years ago. These are companies that until then produced various synthetic herbicides but planned to create a smart hybrid in the treated fields to destroy anything but the basic agricultural culture. Such a herbicide was of course not easy to make, so they thought they'd create a super plant next to it. One that will be resistant to their herbicide, and preferably unattractive to insects. The solution was found in a known method of changing the genome of the plant using genetic engineering techniques. Along with soy and corn, they inserted an enzyme of bacteria that produces amino acids that allowed plants to become resistant to these precisely their herbicides. The process allowed the crop to remain alive after spraying its herbicide. This finding allowed multinational companies to now sell large amounts of GMO seeds in addition to herbicides, and thus, of course, increase their profits. However, since profits are never enough companies have protected GMO seeds and as intellectual property or patented their product. So today our farmers are not allowed to store seeds of such plants but must repurchase new seeds every year. It is no longer their seed, but the seeds of multinational companies, regardless of what they have grown. In some countries, the so-called so-called state is even formed. A genetic police who controls whether you have preserved their GMO seed without permission. Today, there are always fields of conventional cultures in the world because some villagers do not want to use this GMO seed. Yet the user of GMO culture is increasingly and their fields are located near the field of conventional cultures and these are two incompatible models that cannot exist together and the seeds will eventually certainly mix. This is unfortunately impossible to prevent, and one product will ultimately go too far. However, as a superior plant, GMOs seem to be in vain and that GMOs will rule the world. Already now in South America you can find examples of where conventional culture is infected with this particular GMO seed. The same ones that multinational companies patented and that you can no longer keep in the form of seeds. The rapid spread of GMO seeds and the limited possibilities of keeping that patented seed is a very promising future in which several multinational companies possess the entire reserve of food seeds and we all become directly dependent on them. So multinational companies control the seed and thus control food production. And that's gonna agree to one of the most powerful weapons in the world today. In America already 70% of the products you can find on the shelves store contain GMO products. We can all ask ourselves, can Croatia or can Europe resist it? I'm afraid the answer is negative, it can't. Because this EU directive that we are harmonising with also confirms this. We have before us a document of the harmonisation of the GMO Act with Directive 2015/412 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March 2015 giving EU Member States the possibility of restricting and prohibiting GMO cultivation in their national territory. We will all agree that this first reading looks good so that we can ban the cultivation of GMO seeds. Yes, we can certainly limit cultivation but unfortunately, in this same European document, in several places, it is stressed that the restriction applies exclusively to cultivation, and not to the restriction of free traffic and trade in GMOs within all EU member states. So we can ban the production but no trading of GMO products within the Republic of Croatia. Obviously, this clear guideline is to prepare the ground for a transatlantic trade agreement between America and the EU. This document takes a step further and introduces a concept, a new concept, so on. clinical trials using GMOs for the transport of genes for medical purposes. By adopting a new document, we will open the door to the use of modified micro-organisms to produce GMO vaccines and transport gene therapy into animals or humans using genetically modified viruses for transport. What we're looking at as a question is whether we're going to have a new animal madness that we're going to need just that magical GMO vaccine soon, along with all those flus. Such a question is certainly not illogical if we refer to the development of GMO products in 1996 when the first GMO product was placed on the market. This is almost exclusively about the business of large multinational companies. Someone will say that this attitude is paranoid because the example of insulin produced by entering the genome into escherichia coli shows that this does not necessarily mean something bad. However, if we look at various researches, we will realize that the consequences of the use of GMOs to human health are still quite unknown to us and this requires extra caution. We must be careful when introducing GMOs to our market. A prominent journal of Food and Chemical Toxicology in September 2012 published the work of a team of scientists headed by Prof. Síralini from the French University... which proves that GM food is extremely dangerous. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The study conducted on rats lasted 2 years, unlike so far, on the basis of which GMOs were declared harmless and which lasted only 3 months. Research results show that GM corn can cause tumors and shorten lifespan. In rodents, mortality was twice as high and renal and hepatic impairment was 5 times the average. 93% of female tumours were found to occur only in 2 years of life, which would correspond to approximately 35 to 40 years of age in humans. Russian scientists headed by Dr. Crucially, two years ago, they published sensational results, if we could use that word sensationally and after two years of research, during which it was found that hamsters were fed GM food in the third generation were completely lost to capable reproduction. Perhaps such articles, which you can easily get a look at online, serve to scare people, but we still have to agree that the area of GMO food production is still under-examination. And the legislator of this amendment of the law is somewhat cautious, so this amendment of the law introduces the concepts of an official laboratory for GMOs, a reference laboratory for GMOs, a national reference laboratory for GMOs, probably to make sure that for these powerful laboratories it is not possible for something to go wrong in the health of people and the environment. However, we are now obviously ready to accept a small danger to human, animal and environmental health because in Article 9 of this Act, which before the change in the use of GMOs was carried out in a way that prevented dangers, it is now enough to minimise this risk to biodiversity, human health, animals and the environment. I wonder who's going to determine what's a little danger to people's health. I hope that we should not be comforted by the fact that the applicant must make an accident plan before obtaining permission. In this amendment of the law, I would say under the radar that word is very often used here in the Assembly to enable the opening of the Croatian market with free flow of GMO products. Although at first glance we seem to be improving the law because we're introducing production control, we're actually losing even a little market control over this change. So in several articles of the existing law, I quote: "...for a different purpose than placing on the market.". In order to be unequivocal, this law does not in any way want to limit the free European market for GMO products, but only to give members the possibility to partially ban products in their territory. As I was at the beginning and said, GMOs are only business. And above all, big corporations need a market where they place their products. As a labour force, I mean now all over Europe we are not too interesting to them, but as good consumers we certainly are. They have enough large fields of GMO soybeans and corn in America that are genetically perfected and yielding increasing yields that need to be placed somewhere. Confirmation that the main objective is the free flow of GMO products in and through Croatia can be found in one of the previous amendments to this law which removes the obligation of the manufacturer and the introduction to place on their products a genetically modified organism, this product contains GMOs, i.e. this product comes from GMOs. We removed all those obligations from putting those, exactly those sentences. This article is now Article 51. The law reshapes into a much lighter variant. The question is how much we ourselves can do here because we have been a full member of the EU since 1 July 2013 and we are obliged to comply with European directives and thus this one on the regulation of the introduction of GMO products into the market of the Republic of Croatia. GMO crops in the world today cover 100 million hectares of agricultural land. So this possibility of banning production in Croatia will not have much effect on our diet unless we also prohibit the import of GMO products and unfortunately, as a member of the EU at the moment, we cannot. Finally, I would reluctantly conclude that by joining the EU, we have lost some of our sovereignty to making individual decisions, and we must encourage this amendment as legalists because it falls within the scope of administrative harmonisation with the EU directives. However, within the EU institution, of course and within the Republic of Croatia, we should, especially in the European Parliament, engage ourselves in stopping any imports of GM products until their integrity is proved for people and the environment. As representatives of a country that inherits the tradition of numerous vegetable and fruit cultures in the long tradition of a healthy peasant economy that forms part of our identity of that country, which boasts the title of one of the biodiversity of the richest land, we bear the historical responsibility to oppose the use of GMO seeds. Let us ask ourselves if the trade agreements we are forced to sign are such that we must pay with the health of our environment and people, if they are worth it. Let us maintain our sovereignty, respect Croatian national laws, preserve a healthy environment, protect the Croatian people, because it is our role as people's representatives, and reject the pressures to introduce a very discriminatory seed that many peoples, after difficult experiences, are literally burning their fields trying to eradicate. Let me conclude, let's not repeat the mistakes of our recent history, and let's not gush like geese into chemical biological fog. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8128	Thank you very much. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Ivan Sincic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8129	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Here I wanted to relate to Mr. Catalinic's thesis when he talked about the past that these agrochemical companies had to deal with before they moved on to this agrobinis. So it's mostly about Monsanto, SYNGENTI, who's likely to buy Monsanto, Basfu, Dupont and some others soon. It should be said that two of these, Bass and Bayer were one of the founders of a company that was called at its own time... I.G. The paint industry, the infamous... in Germany that produced therefore chemical substances that killed millions in concentration camps used by the slave war in its plants, these two companies and others were the founders of I.G. Farbena and after the Nazi Germany fell, when I.G. was disbanded. Farben, these two companies are heirs to I.G. Farbena, so we have a long chronology of that thesis that has been going through means from before World War II to today, and we can clearly conclude that something in these companies is constantly working against life in all forms of violence against life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8130	Thank you. The next one will speak on behalf of the HSLS MP, the distinguished representative Gordana Rusak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8131	President-in-Office of the Parliament, respected ministry representatives, respected colleagues and colleagues. The club of representatives of HSLS, BUZ and independent representatives of Gordana Rusak welcomes the fact that this law will go through two readings because it requires serious improvement. Without these serious advances, our club will not support this law. Let me address you as a biologist, as a university professor in biology, science that has had a great swing in the last ten years and a little bit more, and that's why we swing today, and we have these organisms that we're talking about today. As a representative of the profession, I'm going to say that we need to look at this issue with two aspects. The first refers to the use of such organisms in a diet that weighs genetically modified soybeans, corn, to a slightly smaller extent rice. Although for the sake of true and objective information, I must say that there is also a proponent of their use in nutrition within the biological profession, the majority of those scientists who, because of the still great unknown, can have an impact on human health, I think they should be completely excluded from their diet. This is where Croatia should stay with legislation so that we can decide whether or not to grow for example. Genetically modified maize, or if such plants are allowed, for example. In Spain, it must not mean that it is automatically approved in Croatia. The danger that newly embedded genes spread in nature is the importance of GMOs that they actually carry some of the new genes in themselves from some other organisms. So, to spread such genes by nature from one field of corn to another in Croatia are large because our agricultural areas are small and can't provide enough large buffer zones to prevent this spread of new genes by pollination, which actually means that we could genetically contaminate and not modify the corn plantation and that could spread like an epidemic. I share Mrs. Nancy Tyrell's fear here, which highlighted this danger and I am also giving my answer to a colleague, Vuksanovic-Petrijevcan, who asked if they could possibly if we approved the test fields it would be scattered or it would be in one piece. The waist says that they can't be scattered, we're too small a country, we need that buffer zone to even be able to establish them if we want it to be very discreet. These genetically modified plants most often contain genes that give them resistance to the cause of the disease and research has shown that these resistance genes are then accumulated in the weeds, so they need an increasing amount of herbicide to contain weeds. Thus, from the biological problem, foreign genes are transferred from one plant to another and their introduction into a human organism with insufficiently explored consequences resulting in chemical problems, the introduction of large amounts of pesticides into a human organism with a number of well-examined consequences. Another example of danger is presented in the following example. In order to achieve the resilience of a plant to insects in that plant, GM can be installed from a bacteria responsible for protein synthesis, which is actually a dangerous toxin, or poison from that bacteria that kills insects. The plant will thus find small amounts of that toxin protein that will not be lethal to humans. But what is its impact on the human organism on the long term? How's it going? How long has it been decomposing in the system? What metabolic pathways in the human organism can be affected by are questions we don't have an answer to. From biological problems, I would also mention that Croatia is rich in endemic plants and that the spread of new genes can theoretically affect these plants as well as the plant world in general, so it can have an impact on biodiversity. We must be proud of our biodiversity. Croatia has far more plant and animal species to its surface than some countries that are several times larger than Croatia. So enough trouble to be careful when it comes to eating GMOs. But there's another aspect that's being ignored, and that's the aspect of GMOs in horticulture. So, genetically modified decoration plants, where we have to redistribute those plants that are sold cut by those that could be grown for horticultural purposes. Of all the others, we are threatened with the spread of new genes into plants that are not genetically modified by pollination, and I mentioned above what problems this can cause. There is a council in Croatia as well as a Committee for the introduction of GMOs into an environment whose reports can be found on the Internet. The name is not happily concluded because it suggests that these bodies promote the introduction of GMOs into the environment, and the fact is that they have not granted any request of that type. .../Intruder President: Fellows if you are not very interested in the discussion I would ask that you at least do not interfere with others. I see I don't touch you at all. If you're not interested in the discussion. Go outside and then you've got your circles. It's not rightly higher than a senior colleague. Thank you. Here you go. Thank you very much. A more appropriate name would be the Risk Assessment Committee for the introduction of GMOs into the environment. The Committee shall deliver its opinion to the Council, i.e. its recommendation. Each case must be observed and considered separately. Why if we are generally against GMOs in Croatia? For the reason that only scientists and this will apostrophe, only scientists can tell if it's really about GMOs hiding potential dangers. Outside by looking at the plant, the seed, some plant part you can never claim and say this is GMO or not. Only serious laboratory analysis at molecular level can tell if it's a GMO organism, seed, part of a plant or anything else. So the truth is in the hands of scientists. Sometimes, for example, we can't have some decorative plants, we can have some decorative plants of different unusual flower colors and not at all about GMOs, but certain manipulations have forced the plant to change the biosynthetic pathway of pigments. And another example from scientific literature is very interesting. Scientists were able to detect the gene in a wild apple and install it into a variety of cultured apples. That is why they did nothing more than happen in nature, that genes in reproduction are recombined and they form individuals of the same species with more favourable properties. They did with their experiment what could happen in nature and themselves through the cross-breeding process. So we have to distinguish this from those standard creations of GMOs. So this sensitive area should remain within the domain of experts and scientists who will be able to assess each case separately. On the other hand, the general public is not sufficiently familiar with this area, and what we do not know further strengthens and such a great fear, which means that we should also work on education in the wider public. It's hard to do that in a country that shuts down the school program. So last year in October, the school program was shut down, and now we're reintroducing it. Finally, on the basis of everything said, I would appeal to my colleague, Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, who, according to his presentations, is certainly available to those molecular biological analyses or the results of these analyses that confirm that there are GMO corn plantings in Slavonia. I believe that this is a very serious matter, that this evidence must be made public, and that the relevant institutions must take urgent steps today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8132	Thank you. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Ivica Music. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8133	Dear colleague Rusak, you said in your speech that you were completely shutting down, it is necessary to exclude GMO products from your diet. Well, I believe that GMOs must be damaging our organism. But I'd like to ask you whether or not one of your experts actually asked you from you scientists to ask someone from the ministry or someone from the government that when you give your opinion as experts as far as I can see, they put only one counselor in the government and to solve the problem of GMO food. Whether this GMO food will be, we know that it is imported and that there are also in our shops and that it will come and I think that this law should be waited, we should be well considered not to be in our fields, here is what you mention to Slavonia, so that GMO food does not come through the wind or through seeds spread throughout Croatia. We're a small country. Good thing we're still a healthy country and I'd like to hear your opinions about what's going to happen in the future and how you think it's going to work out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8134	Thank you. The distinguished representative Gordana Rusak will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8135	Thank you very much for asking. I am also a member of a single body, a working body at the PMF related to GMOs, but there are people from our university who are members of this mentioned committee and who take their job very seriously. But what problems do they face? Now I'm going to give you an example of how they do it. They at the last minute, say a day or two before they are asked to be shown, receive a request from the resolution ministries to show themselves about this and that problem. They fail to do so in such a way that the commission can meet, or the committee, because they simply cannot gather from different parts of Croatia, and then the president herself responds to these enquiries by consulting with his colleagues and then being told that they have not held a session and that they cannot be paid for it. And someone deliberately manipulates, deliberately or intentionally, they can't claim, but really, it's true that several times or more times they repeat the same thing that they're put into a pinch to answer a question. But I must say that they are also very critical of my information as I also told my colleague Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic they did not approve any GMOs in Croatia. So everything, if it were to be found, is illegal and illegal. I believe that this committee has the strength but I also believe that politics has the strength to accept their suggestions because they give their conclusions to the GMO Council, and it is again in contact with the ministry. Someone in that chain can give in and there may be problems but I believe they're not experts and scientists in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8136	Thank you. Now we'll continue with the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the honourable representative Lucian Vukelić will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8137	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. In the last 7th session of this Assembly, two discussions were held on this law at 7th and 12th session. And for the last time in this House of Commons was April 3, 2014 and today it is again in front of it. This time, too, it is exclusively about the compliance of the final proposal with the EU acquis resulting in the full compliance of this law with the provisions of the primary and partly secondary sources of EU law. I would just refer to that last session of April 3rd, where the fundamental basis of the whole story was the proposal to, in short, read from the phonogram here, of course, amend the provisions which mention the competences of the State Inspectorate, align according to the newly created division or in the part of the conduct of official controls on the designation of GMOs, the jurisdiction shall be taken over by the Ministry of Agriculture or Quality Inspection. So that's what we're talking about here is that it's the only problem that's transferred from the State Inspectorate to the Quality Inspectorate. And that, of course, is where our Mr. Shucker replicated and spoke very much about it. For the last time, the proposed amendments have been amended by the provisions mentioned in the jurisdiction of the State Inspectorate and the alignment towards the newly created division, i.e. in the part of the implementation of official controls on the designation of GMOs. So I repeat once again that was transferred, I'm sorry there's no Mr. Yakovina here to explain to us what they've done in the last year on this matter. So they took over, the Ministry of Agriculture, or the Quality Inspectorate. I think maybe now it's a little clearer for colleagues as to what this is all about. Also, this bill states how we can see what directives and regulations the EU is harmonising with, and this time already existing law in the Republic of Croatia. That I do not now list all these numbers and the names of regulations and directives that are in force but this law may be ungrateful and, of course, as we see here in this now High House can draw great negative features and connotations. Because it's generally known that when we talk about GMOs, so genetically modified organisms, we have a mostly negative view. Especially if it's food like that. In short, GMOs can therefore be defined as organisms in which their genetic material has been changed in a way that does not occur in nature. This technology is also called genetic technology or recombinant DNA technology. Or, of course, genetic engineering as we're used to listening. It allows the transfer of certain genes from one organism to another even among very different kinds of organisms. We know we have a fly gene in our tomatoes. Such methods in the world are used to produce GMOs that are then grown naturally for human consumption. And now there's the catch that we've been discussing here all along, and it needs to be defined, and that's what's being imported, what's being grown, what's being controlled and their jurisdiction. Right here, as we've been talking about all along, we're talking about plants. It is, of course, in the law of this which is before you, not of animal origin, but of plants. And now I'm going to explain a little bit to you, because in this part of the law, it says in an explanation that sufficient financial resources are needed. Namely, the area of genetically modified reproductive material of the agricultural plant is very complex and requires continuous work and improvement for the Republic of Croatia to be able to handle this problem in quality and professional terms. That's what we've been talking about now on several occasions, but there's one thing that's been nagging me all along, and when I was preparing this, I don't know if my colleagues have even read what's going on here from genetically modified plants. Because we're talking not only about food production, we're talking about industrial herbs, too. So maybe in short, we have 16 GMO cultures, which are corn, soybeans, cotton, oily rape, tomatoes, potatoes, sugar beet, rice, wheat, pumpkins, chicory, tobacco, melon, of course, papaya is not interested in us much, but we have a flax and what I particularly enjoy and carnation. Are we going to throw the carnation out like GMOs? Is carnation as such not good or are we going to restrict the import of carnation into Croatia? Now let's do it, of course it would be in all the newspapers because we're shutting down the production and import of carnation. But in any case, let's just go back to this kind of joke, maybe it's good to mention, I can see that a colleague from Dubrovnik County here is also an explanation given by the Dubrovnik-Neretva County Public Health Station where they say they explain. It should be said that GMO food has its advantages over conventional organic food. First of all, it is a lower price, a longer period of product duration or a higher nutritional value. However, the basic reason why GMOs began to produce food was, as counterpart Katalinic had said, greater resistance than intruders and plant diseases. Of course, the issue of GMOs is leading to various questions and misunderstandings. Possible hazards affecting GMOs are the possibility of the escape of modified gene in nature, survival of modified gene after sowing, sensitivity of useful insects to gene products and the reduction of biodiversity. That is why the problem in the Republic of GMOs is regulated by several legislative and sublegal acts. As for me and how many of these are available to me in the Republic of Croatia, there are two authorised laboratories, a laboratory for the detection of GMOs at the Croatian Institute of Public Health in Zagreb and a laboratory for the examination of seeds at the seminary and waste management office in Osijek. That's why I think in the Republic of Croatia that thing that works well, and I don't think there should be any particular concern, because I think that colleagues from Slavonia will contact Osijek safely as their reference centre for GMO crops that would eventually come here. It's good to talk about GMOs, to follow these problems. And here is this document in front of us that we see that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is very concerned about this area, and I don't think there's anything special and repeat it at all at all, because of course that we as the Republic of Croatia have been explaining for many years that this is a GMO free country, although of course I say here, we'll see later that it's not quite like that. This law allows flexible adaptation of domestic legislation to EU legislation and ensuring timely transposition and application of the 2015 Council Directive as well as to EU Member States only... The Directive provides for the possibility of restricting or prohibiting GMO cultivation in part or in the entire territory of the EU Member State. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So on 17 September 2015, Croatia referred to what a colleague of Varga was and said 9 letters of exemption in accordance with the EU Directive, i.e. in 2015, Directive 412, which requested the adjustment of the geographical area for 9 genetically modified plant cultures. It is certainly commendable that this law extends the scope of the law concerning the restriction or prohibition of GMO cultivation in part or throughout the Republic of Croatia. Of course, when it comes to GMOs, there will always be arguments of course for and against, but we will never stand up for them, nor agree on questions and problems. So it can be read that some arguments for GMOs are better resistance to pests, greater tolerance to stress, the ability to produce medicines and vaccines, better taste etc. The arguments against everyone are so clear and it is unexpected side effects because following up using these, I don't know if it's at all expressed, I haven't studied it at all, but probably a colleague of Gordana Rusak will know it better since she's dealing with it. It is certainly necessary to make a follow-up to see if what happens in people in the long-term consumption of such products and GMOs. Of course, there comes a reduced variety of species, ecological damage, excessive use of herbicides, etc.. But why is this whole story taking so long? We talk about it all, we give it up for first reading, we give it up for second reading, twice in my mind... a session that was in the last session. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is a proposal for the adoption of an emergency law and I may repeat to you once again for the purposes of voting with the working bodies and committees of the European Commission on proposals submitted to implement decisions on the placing on the EU GMO and GM of plant cultures intended for use, for the cultivation of Member States, only it can vote against if it has previously come out of the European Commission of exemptions from the national territory for GMOs. So our Europarliamentaries can participate in the debate, I can say that they are against or only for if we agree with this law and the directives that have been adopted. We can now discuss this for a long and wide time but if we do not agree we will not give our colleagues the opportunity to vote on it at all. It will not be able to discuss this, it will not be able to participate in the work of the Committee, so I think that this law, as such, allows the Republic of Croatia autonomy, decisions relating to the restriction or prohibition of GMO cultivation, in accordance with the provisions of Article 26c, of the EU Council Directive and, therefore, on behalf of the HDZ Club, we support this proposal and, of course, we will decide tomorrow whether to go to another reading or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8138	Thank you. We have one replica, the distinguished representative of Gordana Rusak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8139	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm going to answer this question, my research colleague. In one sentence, they're insufficient. Those GMO supporters will find some of their arguments in the literature that will say this is harmless while the other side that's talking about having potential dangers to human health means the same thing and I would say even more arguments. But in any case, we should wait for time to pass and for these researches to become unambiguous and for that to say is the only relevant time, the period during which these research is conducted. We are witnessing that a number of drugs were placed on the market that seemed harmless at first moment and then after a number of years, harmful consequences were revealed. And I'd just like to add up to that carnation story when the gentleman says what we're going to do with them, if we're going to throw them out, so the carnations have to be watched, one of the carnations that's been cut, that's going to be in a bouquet, we're going to be dead, and the other are the carnations that we're going to grow in a field, and then our carnations are going to become GMOs and we're not going to be aware of that because there's going to be a crossover. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8140	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Lucian Vukelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8141	Thank you very much, colleagues, for this, but it's not just a carnation, you'd say, now it can remain a carnation but not a red one, but a white one. Not only that story, but there's flax in it, textileally, there's cotton, there's oil tail, so we're not just limiting ourselves to consumption, we're wearing it. We also don't have... nor can we predict what can happen to GM plants that are worn. So we can, there are a lot of segments, but I don't think at this point it's at all about this esteemed High House, but here we are simply talking about compliance with the EU, i.e. the possibility that we can discuss this in the European Parliament, and so that Croatia draws conclusions, laws and regulations on the restriction of imports, use and shine of GMOs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8142	Thank you. We come to the next presentation on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS, HDS, the esteemed representative Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8143	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HSS Club, HDS, we will support the proposal of the Committee on Agriculture that this topic be discussed in two readings as they themselves said in their conclusion because of the complexity of the legislative proposal proposed to this Croatian Parliament but more importantly because this is what our residents, our consumers and our OPGs are asking us to do, based on the decisions of the County Assembly. It has already been said here that 20 counties except the city of Zagreb have all made decisions on their bodies, the county parliaments that they want their area without GMOs. And it's not any modernity or any kind of whim, but it's simply a desire to preserve a healthy environment, to preserve healthy food production for generations that come behind us. Of course, we must, I welcome and propose that we comply with the European Directives and that this proposal, amending and supplementing the GMO law, is a tool in the Republic of Croatia and protecting ourselves in a certain way from GMOs, from cultivation, reproduction, transport and use in food and animals. Of course we will support the amendments and additions of the law but that certain elements should be completed. Big chemical houses 30 years ago, someone said here 20 years ago, 30 years ago, and more big companies went into this research with a view to making a bigger profit, most of the time it was soy and corn. When it comes to soybeans, they have introduced a soybean gene, the possibility of it being resistant to one total herbicide, glyphosad, and thus all other varieties being kicked off the market, America and South America, and which is also the largest soybean producer and 90% soybean and soybeans coming to our European market coming from these parts. The problem is that it then appeared revolutionary and will increase food production and thus ultimately increase the profits of these companies. However, they forgot about humans and people’s health. What's going on in the meantime? So these days you're following that big debate about whether or not the glyphosad is carcinogenic? It was determined that he himself, that active substance was not. However, fillers and carriers that contain elements in this Herbicide, which are carcinogenic and require a ban on glyphosate. What happened in the meantime to people who consumed in the food chain products derived from such soybeans, the best say research in America. Well, you can track it yourself, and you can see that there's a large number of people out there with cardiovascular problems, with increased allergies, etc. It's similar to corn where the corn gene infiltrated itself that the plant itself produces insecticide based on... where corn moth and corn gold are thus prevented from harming that plant's production cycle. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this way, it provides companies with stable yields and higher profits, and somewhere around twenty or more corn products are used in human nutrition, and as a result, what I have already mentioned through research in America is that such food has affected this citizens' improvement. Do we want to do this in Croatia? Our citizens, our counties said no. The European Directive asks us to coordinate and to set out in a certain way the measures and activities to be initiated by that institute, the measure of exemption. We can do it, but we have to explain it well. The request was filed on time last year, announced. However, we must explain well. We will not be able to rely solely on environmental measures, but we must prove that the introduction of GMOs in Croatia can cause certain problems to human health, animal health, biodiversity etc. The fact is that the final decision is made by the European Food Safety Authority. So, we have to prepare well here and therefore it is good to do this in two readings, to see how this Parliament will help the Government and the Resolute Ministry to make a regulation that will prescribe Croatia through measures of exceptions and measures in implementation, how it will implement them, how we will be partners in that part in a certain way, to see how we will make quality preparations for our request and to protect our market from genetically modified organisms. And also in that part of the regulation where we are talking about areas where genetically modified organisms should not be grown when it comes to organic agriculture, eco zones, protected areas, eco tourism, etc., it is not clear to the end what this refers to. Because we know that our family farms report part of their production as ecological, not all. We know that we have certain protected areas from national level, national parks, etc., that we have some protected areas that the county congregations have made in their decision and that we need to be more specific about whether it's a Natura 2000 area or something else. But what is my thinking and us from the club, that the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia should be protected from production, reproduction, transport and use and should be banned in experimental fields. Because that's just the environment. Similar requirements were made by Hungary and Slovenia, Italy, and therefore I support the initiative to include Croatia in the Alpe Adria GMO initiative free of charge. We support the initiative to increase the production of soybeans in this zone from some 600,000 hectares per million and 500 to two million hectares through that group of Danube soys signed by both Hungary and Germany and Austria and Croatia and thus help our producers. And measures should also be designed through the policies of the Ministry of Agriculture in order to increase the production of such food, soybeans, corn in the Republic of Croatia as well. And, of course, through these control measures, we need to be quality-set and give more authority and more resources and competent inspections and state bodies. Because we have the same limit as Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia. Bosnia and Herzegovina is in the process of bringing in such acts. Serbia does not have such a law yet, and our citizens go daily to buy seed goods and other fruit materials across the border, unfortunately because the standard of living is such that because of their lack of property and low standards they have to go there because it is cheaper because of the tax policies of these countries and because of the general situation on the market of these countries. It is necessary to see this small-border traffic protected from the transport and introduction of contaminated material into the Republic of Croatia, and this suspicion which Mrs Irene had in the first exhibition must have referred to the fact that there was a input of such material, but we did not record it. And there is a certain danger that through natural cross-section, gene recombination in nature may already be found certain genes in our environment. Today, this technology has gone so far that it is possible, for example, to install the scents and tastes of cuisine into the apple gene. So would you like to eat? And he says yes, it's healthy to eat an apple, so eat an apple, eat an apple right away and cook it. I'm not up for it. I worked for us in Slavonia to produce our apples from our range and our Slavonic domestic tower. And surely we need to find ways to protect domestic production, give us a chance and let the waist say so. This is followed by the board and the National Council. I propose that representatives of ministries and scientific professions join the National Council as well as representatives of the Croatian Parliament, which has not been a practice so far. And in other national councils in other areas are members of these bodies and representatives of the Croatian Parliament at least of the parent committees who are already discussing all these proposals. I think it would be useful for the flow of information and to be a partner in the adoption of such acts, with the aim of protecting domestic production, protecting domestic biodiversity and leaving for generations of countries where all generations will develop healthy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8144	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. The first has a distinguished representative, Gordan Rusak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8145	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I believe that one of the very strong reasons for Croatia to remain a GMO free country could be the fact that we are actually a small country, that we have very narrowed agricultural surfaces and that, in such conditions, the introduction of GMOs would also mean the spread of these organisms because we cannot provide a sufficiently large buffer zone between some experimental field and those fields that will not be planted with GMOs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8146	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8147	Thank you very much. Mr. Vlaovic, I absolutely support most of your debate, especially in order to support the counties that have, for the past 10 years and over, brought and expressed their views that they do not want to raise GMOs in their counties. On that side, I also think it would be a good idea to discuss the law in two readings. However, in the event that this law is not going to work and that this law is adopted in the form of Article 52c of the proposed law, which defines that the Government of the Republic of Croatia can make a decision on a proposal from the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry so that GMOs cannot be bred throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia or that this subsidiarity from the EU can be applied to the territory of the Republic of Croatia. That is why, since the materials had not been available to MPs before, because they copied the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature had just reached such a conclusion, if this law was adopted in this way that the Ministry of Agriculture proposed this to the Croatian Government. And another thing that is very important here is not only growing but also trading GMOs in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. We want a very clear view from the government within 30 days to be delivered to us to make one thematic debate about what we will do about it. So the absolute support for this should be from the Croatian Parliament that our counties get too I would say wind in the back and that we finally define and resolve this issue forever and that we do not eat the towers or eat the towers through the apple, if you said this is possible. And anything is probably possible today. So here I would like you to study these conclusions of the Environment and Nature Protection Committee and in some ways have a common view on this matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8148	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8149	Thank you very much. Mr Maras, I agree with you that we have a common interest in implementing European directives in the legislation of the Republic of Croatia but certainly also in the common interest of protecting domestic producers and consumers and of course supporting our local and regional self-governments which have clearly shown interest that they do not want in their area of GMOs. And the debate itself in the European Council and in the European Parliament was, there were different opinions, and the European Commission did not clearly distinguish what conditions could be put forward by EU member states with its request and explanation why they do not want their GMOs. That's why we want to look at as many views as possible through this debate as possible and make as many quality suggestions as possible so that our government and our respective ministries have quality tools to protect our area from GMOs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8150	Thank you. And the last replica, the esteemed representative Josip Katalinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8151	Thank you, Vice President. You told your colleague Vlaović in your presentation that we must prove that GMO products are harmful. I suppose what you're saying is that GMO seed producers have to prove that they're not harmful to human health, of course, and the animals we feed on these products.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8152	Thank you. Replication response, Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8153	My dear colleague, I've said that there is research that GMO products are harmful to human health and I mentioned research in America and the state of it. So we probably didn't get along. And what is important, as regards what you said, is that the Republic of Croatia and all EU members, if they want this measure of exceptions, must explain it in quality and give arguments why they do not want to produce and import GMO material into their area. That's what this is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8154	Thank you. We're moving on to individual debates. The word has a esteemed representative Ivan Vilibor Sinčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8155	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here is the first thing to be said that today we are facing a new occupation of Croatia but this time not by military occupation as we had 25 years ago, at this time globalisation wars are not being fought by weapons, at least here let's say in the Western world, but rather by conquering other countries through various political-economic procedures. And the Croats otherwise known through their history as great fighters are too naive for this kind of defense and this kind of war. In Croatia we have a large door for GMO seeds and products as well as toxic pesticides produced by GMO companies. And the government does not know or refuse to oppose the destruction that is in sight. I won't go too far if I claim it's a mass attempted murder. And I'm not just talking about people here. Here's the biggest example from Canada. In Canada, for example, GMO grains killed not only tens of millions of bees but also butterflies and even birds. The soil microorganisms are completely destroyed while the company... From the U.S. government, she was able to trick into banning seed collection. [[You don't understand.]] So fellow representatives and representatives farmer no longer has the right to buy seed from his land for next year. He became addicted, and the ultimate goal was to achieve a monopoly on seed production as if the whole world was one field and all the seeds was controlled from one source. If we allow the spread of GMOs our beautiful country Croatia will be sucked and turned into a wasteland without people, similar to the forests in Brazil. It is not surprising, therefore, that Brazil today is the world’s main GMO, which has already been discussed in today’s debate. And the same soybean, our government, by regulation of 1 July 2013, has allowed the import as livestock food, even retroactively since 2008 so that illegal importers would not be punishable until that time. Should we also wait for some kind of zip virus or some third product of a game of genes whose outcome cannot be predicted as a consequence of the horror in Brazil and Croatia? We don't want to be involved in an experiment with a questionable outcome. Do we know that in Brazil, parliament has passed a ban on GMOs, yet it did not flag... in his mind. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yes, Brazil is an example of an illegal spread of GMO seeds. How can we know today that there isn't a tow truck I don't know from Bosnia and that someone isn't paid, at the salary to spread it around Croatia, and then in a few years we'll determine the situation and we're already on the verge of an act. This is a war of colleagues and colleagues and the enemy is much smarter than we are. If you see the revenues of these companies, so they eat Croatia for breakfast as they say, so that's tens of billions of dollars, euros annually. This is all comparable to the Croatian budget, they exceed the Croatian budget. Not to say they infiltrated the lobbys of some strong states that are there and additional pressure on all of us. As we have already heard, although all Croatian counties have declared themselves free of GMOs, although the entire public is against GMOs, people do not want it, in Croatia today increasingly important GMOs such as Monsanto, Bas, Syngenta, Pioneer, Bayer and I have said earlier that Bas and Bayer and the founders and heirs of the infamous Nazi... In addition, Monsanto openly argues that 35% of the Croatian market will be spread and slowly occupied, that nothing will stop them because they have billions previously mentioned and also ties in the highest political circles, moreover that they have already agreed with them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They clearly advise that they are not interested in the interests of small farmers, of indigenous varieties, of small farmers' interests or of environmental issues. They're only interested in the profits they're looking to get out of the country. The question is therefore why Article 7. The GMO law allows for the import of GMOs into Croatia and even the secrecy of importing data. What's the secret to food information about a military intelligence issue? I think it is, in a special war. And that, that certain circles from Croatia want to protect the identity of the enemy. Is that how I intend to defend Croatia against GMOs? Here's a question to think about. Furthermore, the question arises as Croatia is overseeing GMOs in Croatia and what is in fact meant to be achieved by today's amendments to the law. Why are we... Mon 810, mon 863 and t25 banned in Austria, France, Germany, Hungary, Italy, Belgium, Poland, Romania and Spain, but not in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition to why the list of 4 authorised authorities for the supervision of GMOs, some of which we have already mentioned today in Croatia, is on the pages of the Ministry of Culture instead of on the pages of the Ministry of Health or the Ministry of Agriculture. How much control has been carried out so far, how much food is marked by GMO declarations, i.e. appropriate GMO declarations. Do we know that even Serbia means GMO food, or do we really naively believe that we don't have such food? Of course, that's not true again. It is also a very interesting question why Monsanton runs Agrokor Ivica Todorovic as the main partner in Croatia. I believe some MPs here know something about these topics, so they might as well mention it. Why the Article 10 of these announced amendments reduces the time allowed by the GMO control laboratory to only two years. To put pressure on the supervisors or something? Why does Article 27 not define protection against the introduction of GMOs into protected and ecological areas? I think that's the first thing I'd like to say about schlemper. What kind of consistency between GMOs and natural agriculture is referred to in Article 55 in the proposal to amend the law... The co-existence of these two types of crops is a myth without a professional background. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have heard earlier Croatia is too small a country to create a buffer zone. In the battle between organic and conventional crops, pollution spreads very quickly, even mentioning the term of contamination in the law, so only GMO crops would remain in the long term. The idea of co-existence co-existence is impossible but here it continues to slip through and impose. These are all methods of failure under constant pressure from the United States and corporations such as Monsant and those previously mentioned. Monsant's herbicide cidocor is also used in Croatia. That the cidocor is the name of one of the total herbicides based on glyphosate, is not called roundup but is called the cidocor, which the World Health Organization has declared carcinogenic, which we have also heard about, or some of its parts, but has allowed Croatia to use until 2023. Do we know that, according to recent analysis, Croatians are the most poisoned people of Europe to glyphosati, millions of questions can be asked, in fact, one thematic session should only be held on various aspects of GMO technology? Do we know that, after a recent analysis, the Croats are the most poisoned people in Europe to glypophosates? Do we know that tumors and allergies to gluten, infertility, liver and kidney damage, bowel diseases are often indicators of food consumption? Why does the Ministry of Health not say that Croatia is 6th in the world by percentage of cancer mortality with a tendency to further increase in patients. So ladies and gentlemen, we don't have control of our space and what's worse is we don't have enough resources, we've heard before that we're doing tests to determine the right state and then to arrange some further action. The enemy is much stronger and much richer and much faster not to say smarter. And the perspective isn't good for now. In short, the debate on this law has been completely missed, such a text of the law only subjectively executes the orders of corporations may not be suddenly but step by step, capitalisation is signed instead of taking care of strategic national interests. The only thing in the interest of the people is to completely ban GMO seeds and introduce declarations on all import products containing GMOs such a law I want to apply in our Croatia and I am finally reminding the Russians that planting GMO crops because of the mass endangerment of human life has decided in the same way as terrorism. This means that one who uses GMOs on purpose can also be sentenced to life imprisonment. The Hungarians combined all GMO fields and banned the entire GMO seed. Hungary and Russian agriculture will certainly not fail and neither will Hungary nor the Russian state, nation or society fail. Croatia still has a chance to follow the example of brave peoples who do not want to sell their freedom, health, existence for money, so we have a historic chance here in time to pass the law as it is in the service and at the will of most of our people, out of the great majority, 99% I would say, it is known from public change, so I call for a boycott of GMOs in full and we will not support this law in this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8156	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Josip Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8157	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to make it very clear that as a representative of this House, I will firmly support the government's position that the entire Republic of Croatia be a GMO free. However, I would also like to point out that our farmers and cattlemen are discriminated against by this law. Why? The inputs in the production of GMOs are much smaller than in the production of... for example, in the livestock production of GMOs or soybeans that are placed in livestock food in countries that do not have a ban on GMOs is 30-50% cheaper than non-GMOs. So it is known that the countries of South America use GMO food in animal nutrition. That's the kind of meat we import, and that's where two problems arise. First, such human food is much cheaper in the input than domestic NON GMO food and thus unfair competition with domestic production which is being choked and destroyed in this way. And for a long time, meat comes to the Croatian market from animals fed in the country of origin, GMOs with food that we do not want. Furthermore, most EU member states that are with the Republic of Croatia are the single market, Inter trades are so called and therefore there is no border control within the EU countries and there is free flow of products of animal origin. They also have, most of them politics GMO free. However, when a ship of GMOs comes to port in our environment, then I wonder who it's meant for when all the countries are in the area of GMOs free. Therefore, this law does not only matter to regulate the supervision and cultivation of GM plant organisms in the Republic of Croatia but also to control the import of GMOs intended for the production of livestock. Because, of course, we don't care if we grow or feed cattle imported from cattle, both of which are dubious or suspicious, or even worse, animal food marked GMO free that isn't. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, we must not be hypocritical and look through our fingers on the one hand, this government and we, as a council and state, raise both our hands to make our country a GMO free and, on the other hand, uninterruptedly enters meat from South America from animals fed by GMO feed. Not only am I to be specifically marked as the origin of the importing country but I am to pass the law to prohibit the import of food from countries that do not have GMO status free because otherwise this law does not make any sense and we must regulate it by law rather than give the will to carry out inspection services that have done a bad job all these years. I'd like to say that during food surveillance for humans, the animal competent authority of the Ministry of Agriculture is carrying out official controls. The frequency of these official controls shall be prescribed by the competent authority in accordance with the risk level assessment. This frequency is increasing due to pressure from the import lobby, due to trade chains, and under the exception of lack of money in the budget. I would like to say clearly and responsibly that the criterion for reducing frequency is not as should be better self-control and less non-compliance in uncontrolled food production entities but again mentions the lack of money in the budget. Assistant Minister of Health says four official controls. I'm asking you colleagues and colleagues, is it possible that because of a few million kunas more in the budget of inspection services, we're playing with the health of the nation and we have four instead of four thousand controls. We have to change that, that's our job. This topic is about which we have a broad consensus of public and politics but we seem to have been staring at one eye all these years and that GMO food for humans and animals has been constantly and constantly entering the country. I believe that no institution in this country should at all be able to decide on the topic of putting GMO food on the territory of the Republic of Croatia except the Croatian Parliament, with prior opinion of the profession and broad public debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8158	Thank you. Replica has distinguished representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8159	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague, since we're both on the Agriculture Committee, and that's exactly what I was talking about this morning. I am also very unhappy that on one side we are talking about against GMOs and on the other side we do nothing and we enter GMOs silently because we have not been here in the past four years of the last Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Agriculture have done anything about it. But it's not just for the past four years. So, a longer series is constantly not doing anything about it, and we know, in particular, that these products are really coming to us, and the retailers assure us that this is the right product. But we just got rid of it and we said no. What are we going to do if we are four times a year and it is under a large questionnaire, we are four times in control of GMOs, at the entrance of goods to the Republic of Croatia. Nothing. That's too small. I'm not talking about other surveillance over the entrance of frozen meat, so it's no secret that we're importing meat for 20 and 30 years frozen that's maybe more. What are we doing? We have to do just as this Government has the task of doing everything in a short time period to prevent such food supply, but above all we also have far more priority jobs, which is how and how to save the Croatian village, and how to save Croatian peasants, how to save the dairy industry. We don't have time here. It's about days, maybe hours. We as well as the Republic of Croatia have so far not recognized what Slovenia, Austria, Hungary recognized. We can't have bans, but we didn't come up with anything to preserve the Croatian peasant.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8160	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Josip Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8161	Well, we are a respected colleague as a member of the EU, and that is, we know that this is a single European market and that this single European market is a regulation in which certain goods are examined at borders. However, no one in this world or in the EU forbids us to take a certain step or step beyond the standard of how our neighbouring countries do it. And that's exactly how they defend themselves against unfair competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8162	Thank you. The next replica is Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8163	Thank you, Vice President. Recently, in a specialized show for agriculture, I think "The Fruits of the Country" of Croatian Radio Television hosted one of the leading to say so to the head of import control and in general this problem that we are talking about. And he said as a major problem that I quote: "Import and transit of seeds especially from neighbouring countries." And it's roughly like this: "A thousand bags of seeds are stamped, 500 bags are not, and it's the same contingent." Therefore, if people in charge of doing these jobs themselves say that there are holes in doing these jobs, then what are we talking about here. It's not a problem in that peasant or should I tell a farmer who'll go across the border and buy cheaper seeds because he's forced to buy cheaper seeds because he looks at every kuna. Here, however, is the problem of larger manufacturers working on the same principle, and then those seeds that bought cheaper even sows on the land that they had been leased. Why aren't the institutions doing their job? That famous phrase can be applied here. I repeat, as we discuss the experimental fields we will, we will not already have those experimental fields. And just let the authorities do their job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8164	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Josip Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8165	I keep saying it, and I'm gonna keep saying it, never enough control. And I'm sure we need to turn that up. However, it is certain that what you said is not normal for certain products of Croatian origin to be in Austria or Hungary cheaper. On the other hand, the products of manufacturers of neighbouring countries, such as milk or meat, are more expensive in their shops in Sparta or Lidl in Austria or Slovenia 30 or 40 or 50% more expensive than with us. I'm sure it's not normal. And those inspections don't do their job, we say it all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8166	Thank you. We move on to the next individual debate, the distinguished representative Branko Bačić. I'm sorry we didn't spot you, I'm sorry. Another replica of the esteemed representative of Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8167	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Križanić, today we had a very constructive and strong discussion on this subject on the board. We unanimously have actually brought that because of the importance of the conclusion, because of the importance of this law he must pass two minimum readings in the Croatian Parliament. Since some colleagues cannot take the habit of calling for four years, in the last four years I will only mention that in September of last year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted a request to the Commission on the exemption, i.e. to protect the territory of the Republic of Croatia for some GMO cultures for which permission to grow or not was requested. But unrelated to that, actually my replica is to you in two questions. One of us gets along as much as possible. Controls are never enough, and as far as food and food are concerned, it is necessary, it needs to be strengthened. But what it is like to do when we had a budget of the Republic of Croatia just over a month ago for 2016, and at that time I pointed out that inspection services were significantly deprived, i.e. reduced resources for the work of inspection services especially in the Ministry of Agriculture. Another thing I'm asking you. You said in your debate that you are giving maximum support to the government in making the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia free from GMO crops. I can't read it from this law. In fact, I'll do more in the time I'll have for an individual discussion. But it is very obvious here, in fact, that the Ministry of Agriculture, or the Ministry of Agriculture, can allow the cultivation of GMOs for the purpose of placing on the market, and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia can but also does not have to impose restrictions or exceptions on the Government of the Republic of Croatia. There's no here, I repeat again what I said on the board, there's not really a general ban, there's no general rule that we want to be a country that's free of GMOs. The fact that we can and believe that the government has good intentions is not translated into this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8168	Dear Representative Josip Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8169	At the end of my debate, I said very clearly and unequivocally that I believe and believe that, and now, I must not get the possibility of deciding on the topic of putting GMO food on the territory of the Republic of Croatia except for the Croatian Parliament, any other body. And I think I'm very clear on that part. The law is in the process. I'm discussing the law now. Therefore, I remain in the view that no one but the Croatian Parliament can be given the opportunity, not to the counties, not to the ministries, not to the government to decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8170	Thank you. And the next individual debate, the distinguished representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8171	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister with an associate. I would also get involved in the debate about this law in the first place to say that for many years now in this House of Commons, I hear about the same, similar debate when we talk about GMOs or the possibility of restricting or prohibiting the use of GMOs in the Republic of Croatia. But what I can conclude is that on the one hand and on the other side of this assembly, we always speak the same way about the need to establish the Republic of Croatia's GMO free region but there is no simple political will to move into this business in a way that truly the Republic of Croatia on the trail of what all Croatian counties have declared a GMO free zone. In all these discussions not only here in the House but also on the parliamentary committees, in particular those committees as clear as for agriculture, environmental protection has been the impression that all those who decide and in whose resolutions it is in a certain way the possibility of a stronger implementation of such a policy towards GMOs is actually trying to find and be opportunised, expecting that the European Directive will lay down uniform criteria for Europe as a whole, and then we will hide ourselves so opportunistically behind that directive. But what Europe, also of different interests when it comes to GMOs, is doing, Pilateovski has washed her hands, I would say in a way that has reduced the responsibility of the subsidiarity model to define the behaviour of a Member State towards GMOs on state administrations or national administrations. And in this regard, it seems to me the main problem is that by laying down that responsibility for the regulation of the conduct of a Member State towards GMOs, it has not established clear criteria and set out clear criteria that Member States can establish an entire space or individual areas of GMOs free zones, so that they are protected areas of nature, whether they are the ecological network or whether they are the Natura 2000. So, it is not Europe by bringing down this subsidiarity model to the Member States that the decision to declare an entire state or a certain area of GMO free zone has defined strict criteria already left it to the Member State that, in unclear criteria, it can prescribe it, and we must recognise that neither our government nor this or the previous government have seriously affected the wish of the county, and it seems to me that a large part of the Croatian public that the entire space of the Republic of Croatia is declared a GMO free zone. I have to say that we don't have to ask much that there is a declaration in the archives of this House that has been made, and what declaration has been made for the entire area of the Alpe-Adria region to be declared a GMO free zone. And this document was made and sent to both Austria and Italy and Hungary and Slovenia where at the level of their committees, whether for sustainable development or for environmental protection, either the Committee on Agriculture of those parliaments discussed it and a large number of those countries contacted in the previous meeting of me personally and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection in order to make this declaration alive and in order for the Croatian Parliament to bring that declaration. In this regard, we had several discussions, thematic discussions at the level not only of the Environment and Nature Protection Committee, but of other committees, and I must say that among the resolution ministries in whose jurisdiction is this issue, whether it is the Ministry of Agriculture and the economy, and also of health and environmental and nature protection, dissonant tones or different approaches came. Not to mention, in particular, that among the scientific institutions that participated in such discussions were conflicting views on whether the Republic of Croatia should be fully declared a GMO free zone or whether certain areas or to wait for a solution which the European Directive will set up and impose on the national administration. Unfortunately, however, Europe has not responded to such an opportunistic attitude, but it has left that decision to us in a way that if we go to declare what I stand for, I really advocate that what all counties in the Republic of Croatia have done is that when it comes to cultivation, cultivation of GMO crops to be declared a GMO free zone. But for this, there should be sufficient knowledge, first of all, to be able to tear off international corporations whose interest is in the Republic of Croatia and the placement of their products here, in the form of crops, or in the form of imports of products that they produce. And we should have a unique political attitude. That's why I say that, often times here, it seems to me that we are crying more orderlyly than we really want to go into that process to declare the Republic of Croatia a GMO free zone. So, in this regard, I also suggested to the Committee that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, first of all, to implement the resolution ministries within the bodies themselves, the state bodies decide how and how this law, or directive, seems to me to be the 412 of the previous year of the European Council and Parliament to implement it in the Republic of Croatia to decide that, then, on the parliamentary committees in whose jurisdiction and this is the problem, we are making the final position. And then we really make a law that seems to me to have the absolute support of all the political parties in Croatia because I don't think we really should politicise on this, and I'm saying lately we're doing a lot of politicizing on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8172	Thank you. The Republic has a distinguished representative, Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8173	Thank you, dear Vice President. A fellow respected cannot fully agree with your debate. Yes, there is political readiness in this assembly as well as in the public that we want to be a GMO free country but it should be carried out in action. This law in this way where no clear exemption of the Republic of Croatia or a clear position has been made. We should know that the common agricultural policy, the reform package that was made in 2014-2020 and one of the last to be negotiated and prepared and aligned with Parliament that certain directives and regulations were made as documents that came out of this adopted reform package and, as a general rule, it may be an excuse that we had not been able to determine ourselves in general on this issue before and before. In fact, I cannot agree with you when you say that the failure of the commission or Parliament is why they did not set out in detail the directive by which they should behave but brought it down to the Member States. There is our advantage because if we had a directive that obliges all Member States, trust me that with our 7 votes, we would be slightly overvoted in the interest of those big ones who fit the production of GMOs and crops. This way, however, we here in this Parliament as a Government, as an executive body can also be determined to implement and protect the territory of the Republic of Croatia from breeding, or to control the transport of such food and food to the Republic of Croatia. So we have instruments, we have the ability to control it, we have the opportunity to determine ourselves and choose what we want to be, what we want to be, and in what direction we want to be... Croatian agriculture. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For this we do not need a commission, we now have the possibility of only illustrating this letter, i.e. the position of the Republic of Croatia in September which we referred to the Commission and which is respected because we are on this list where these certain crop cultivators are forbidden to sow in the Republic of Croatia only 19 Member States. There's still... growing in their territories. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why it's good that as a Member State we can... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8174	You still have an individual exposure for 10 minutes so you can say what you're not now. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8175	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You can agree with me or not, I'm saying what I've been listening to for the past four years, and I've been leading, in part, as chairman of the Environmental Protection Committee, that, for example, the different administrations of your ministry have not had a clear and same attitude when dealing with GMOs. So not only at the government level, but at your ministry level, there was no single position. The second thing I have to tell you is that the European Commission has left, on the principle of subsidiarity, the decision of national states to declare a particular area of GMO free zone, has not given clear, precise, legal guidance, criteria and reasons that would put the national administration in a position where such decisions can, in the case of complaints that can be addressed, indeed, survive at European Union level. So the fact that Europe has left to the Member States is not only the reason that Europe is complex in both geographical and other terms, but it seems to me first of all that... She washed her hands because she had problems when she was making the directive, she had problems when she was making the directive, when there were different interests of large world companies that were not in the interest of the world's largest market being declared a GMO free zone, so she left it to, to the hard national administrations which, in such a state, are very difficult to resist such influence and we will see, here we are 3 years ahead of us if there is an entire mandate and we will see how difficult we will both be at the level of this Assembly and at the level of all political parties indeed respecting what I think is the majority position of the Croats, it is that Croatia is indeed to be in order to encourage the eco-agricultural production of the GMO free region. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8176	Thank you. And we move on to the next individual debate, the distinguished representative of Ladislav Ilcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8177	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. There is no doubt that enough food can be produced on the globe, and that quality food for all humans and without GMOs, and the reason for food problems is the interests of different groups. Like Mr. Cathal's business said. I think it's just gonna get stronger with GMOs. So it's not a problem that we couldn't feed the human race, it's a problem of lack of will. One of the main scientific principles is caution, when moving into a particular experiment and all of this with GMOs I believe that one experiment should always be watched that if there is a danger of such an experiment or the implementation of that scientific discovery that it simply does not go into it until it is established that there are certainly no dangers. That is why I fully agree with Mr Sincic and would sign there, and that is my goal of freeing Croatia from GMOs not only in this sense that it is not sown and not growing GMO products, but freeing it from GMOs. Now we need to look at how this comes about, given the circumstances and some of our forces. As far as this law is concerned, Mrs Nancy Tyrelli has put those experimental fields in the context of the market which this law directly speaks against in Article 10, so they should not have any market option under the law. It should just be a test so that if I get it right, we don't have to depend on the research that someone's doing outside, but on being here. Is that possible to limit? How much would these fields have an impact on the surrounding fields? Can it be isolated from the environment, that's what experts should say, and at all whether we need to do some kind of experiment or we already have enough scientific indicators that we don't need to do experiments but simply say we don't want to. The other thing, Mrs. Tyrelli was talking about one counselor. I must say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has its own GMO council, which is its advisory body, so the government will certainly consult with that council. I read this law especially about this key, I would say Article 13 which actually introduces art into this law. 52.c according to what Mr. Maras said. That, in fact, the Member States, or in this case, Croatia, according to this directive, can say whether they want something or not. So if the European Commission tells me we don't want this corn in the area of Europe, okay, we don't want it, but if the European Commission says this corn can go to the EU area, we get an additional opportunity to say we don't want it. If that's the case, if this law contributes to the restrictions, then I wouldn't want us to say no now, no, we don't want that law because we want a complete ban on GMOs and we want to miss out on this possibility that goes towards restrictions. On the other hand, I wouldn't want this argument that I just said not to take advantage of all the opportunities to make this law restrictive. So, in conclusion, my goal coincides with what Mr. Sincic said, we just need to see now a way that we don't miss this law that, in my opinion, goes in the direction of restrictions because of excessive ambitions that may not be realistic. And on the other hand, we mustn't miss some ambition over some excessive zimmer in terms of it can't go away. So we need to find a good measure, and that is why I am pleased with the second reading and these suggestions that the MPs made, to see if this law can be made more restrictive and there needs a little imagination. I know that when Bulgarians negotiated with the EU to enter, they had this... That, within a 7km radius of the hive, GMO crops should not be grown, so they pissed these hives across the country to expand as many areas in which these GMO crops should not be grown. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Whether there is such a leap in this area of food imports, which is GMOs or perhaps someone, something, might find, should in any case be the profession and ministry to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8178	Thank you. We're moving on to the next individual debate. Honorable representative Davor. No, there won't be a break, we'll work till the end of this point and then we'll have a break. So, distinguished representative Davor Penic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8179	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. This is a very important topic and I'm glad it goes in two readings. Therefore, the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on genetically modified organisms does not go through an urgent procedure. Today, plants are genetically engineered to be resistant to viruses, bacteria, insects, herbicides. Content changes, nutrient content in plants, improves the taste of plants, and enhances resistance to storage conditions. When in such altered laboratory conditions it is created as a plant that will have good yields and be resistant it is then going to be tested in fields. And that's now a question that is plagued by the Republic of Croatia. Should we introduce a test country in which we will allow these seeds that have been grown in laboratories to be tested in these test areas? That's where I see the problem. We have conventional agriculture and in the environment of these conventional agricultural products and cultures plant and GMO cultures there is always that pollen from these GMOs will populate areas of conventional. So they'll contaminate them, contaminate them. That's where I see the problem. The role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the instruments in the implementation of the law, as set out in this proposal of the law, comes down to the fact that a senior professional advisor who will control everything will be employed in the Ministry of Agriculture. Secondly, it is said that in two years, a regulation will be adopted to prescribe what individual laboratories will investigate this GMO food, which will prove that GMO food exists, have two years to form. So what do we do in the meantime? And what are we going to do in the meantime? It is good that, according to the principle of subsidiarity, Croatia can individually exclude any culture with the EU's above-mentioned explanation to the Commission why we are restricting something, so it is not the true thesis of colleagues, Vukelic. We, Croatia asked for 8 exceptions in last year for some cultures and gave clear restrictions. However, I also find Article 34(a) controversial. EU directives do not prohibit trade in GMOs so that I lack this article. This law changes the approach to assessing and managing risks associated with the use of genetic engineering in agricultural production for human consumption. One of the key questions is whether or not to mark GMO products. The marking can be valid, so that each box or product writes how many GMOs have zero or zero content or zero zeros or may be at will. A second issue other than these potential advantages that these GMO technology advocates say will increase production, make it a more tasty diet, increase plant resistance. I am more, and we should be more concerned about the harmfulness, potential harmfulness than the use of this genetic engineering in food production, human food. According to research by people who consume food, GMOs in the United States have been researched where we have a greater increase in tumors, allergies, infertility in women. These are the unexpected short-term effects that have been proven. And what about those long-term effects that haven't been investigated yet? What's going to happen to that? So it's a good thing we can declare the whole area according to this article, which my colleague Maras said on behalf of the Environment Protection Committee that all of Croatia can be declared a GMO free zone, means that no such culture is planted anywhere. GMO technology advocates say it's a solution to hunger in humanity. But for me, I'm a doctor. There's a dilemma for me when we bring that food into the organism that's already modified the DNA ingredients of the plants that we ate what these modified DNA ingredients are doing in the human organism, which the damages are doing. And I wouldn't want us to experiment on a human organism. Because we know that, and some research has been done in America to even go through the placenta and to act on the fruit and to act on pregnancy. Let me get this straight. GMOs contaminating land and nature forever. So once you go into that GMO production, everything around you will be pollinated, everything will be GMOs, there will be no more conventional organic farming. That's one thing. Consequences can be more devastating to some scientists than to crack Krško in our neighborhood. It's not a GMO problem, it's a GMO itself. It's also the use of new herbicides. Because when you dust some area with GMOs, then you pollinate those plants too, so on. wild plants produced by weeds. So you're going to need to use new types of poison, herbicide, pesticides to treat these plants that have been modulated, which will grow again faster. So all this genetic question on health and economics I think health is ahead of the economy. That's my conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8180	Thank you. The Republic has a distinguished representative Ivan Vilibor Sinčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8181	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, Mr. Penic, you were talking about the long-term consequences. Yeah, we can on, so in some experiments we heard about it today on rats or I don't know what happens after one or two generations. Because it takes much less time for them to grow up, to reach sexual maturity. And what happens to people with long-term consequences we'll know that in the third generation in 50 years, but we can't wait 50 years to see but simply stop doing a huge experiment from the whole nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8182	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Davor Penic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8183	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Sincic and I have the same bet on GMOs. ... No one has explored the long-term effects on human health and better not to investigate them, because in these short-term cases where we have a incidence, an increase in cancer, infertility, various types of allergies, that's enough for us to see that in the future the long-term consequences will be more difficult. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8184	Thank you. And we move on to the last individual debate, the distinguished representative of Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8185	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, first of all, I must show satisfaction with today's work on the Committee and a unique position, but also with the support of most clubs or individual debates on the importance of discussing this important law in two readings, that between the first and second readings there can be a debate and some good proposals, and on the basis of the almost concesual attitude here that we want the Republic of Croatia to be a state where there will be no breeding, in which there will be a ban on the cultivation of genetically modified organisms. Perhaps at the beginning of the debate, only two, three sentences about what we have in the past four years represented on all working bodies in Brussels, in the Councils of Ministers, at all those points where we had to take a stand and where we had to say and clearly show ourselves about what the Croatian Government wants, and this is the view that Croatian agriculture must remain out of the possibility of cultivation of GMOs as the first and most important thing. And the other thing is that control of all products, all food and food for animals must be priority and we need to know, or the citizens of the Republic of Croatia must have a clear declaration and know what, how and how they have in the supermarkets, in the grocery stores. At that attitude, we will continue to insist on the maximum here from the constituency benches. As far as the law itself is concerned, I said on the board, and here in previous talks, he's quite unspeakable to me. There are things that simply have to be corrected if we want the attitude, the attitude of the public, the attitude of the MPs, the attitude of the profession clearly articulate, then we have to translate it into this bill, not leave some things undefined like this. For example, concrete remarks on the law itself have been made. Article 4 which amends Article 3 so far and speaks about the competences relating to GMOs. Some exceptions here and I can accept it, I'm talking about the closed system, the scientific experiments of the Ministry of Science. The test fields that some of the colleagues and colleagues were talking about can no longer be understood because we think that there is a very great danger of contamination or not controlling such things and getting into free space. This part of which is related to clinical trials in any case I think it can be allowed under controlled conditions, but what I find problematic are items related to the placing on the market of food, food for animals, reproductive material, animal reproductive material, seed material or the like. Because if we're a country that doesn't want to grow, or the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia wants to be free from GMO cultivation, then I don't see why it's possible to allow whether seed material or any of this reproductive material is allowed in any form, with the approval in this case, of the Ministry of Agriculture. What is most controversial in my opinion is Article 5, which suggests that authorisation for the use of GMOs, for limited use of GMOs, for the purpose of deliberately introducing GMOs into the environment for experimental fields for clinical trials or for cultivation. There's no breeding. I think today we've all made it clear here that the expert community, that the public, that our agricultural producers have clearly taken a stand, that our counties, that our local administration has taken the view that there is no breeding. Here, the law sets out specifics and it is therefore quite contradictory, or contrary to Article 13 of the Law, which speaks of the restriction or prohibition of the cultivation of GMOs in the Republic of Croatia, it speaks of a competent body that can allow and issue a solution, and then speaks of a government that will determine by decision which areas or entire Republic of Croatia are. Once again, I say there will be and hopefully there will be debates and opportunities to make concrete proposals, if not otherwise, in the form of amendments. We will insist that this law is corrected because, in such an unspecified form, in the form in which we are actually giving the possibility on the one hand to the authority responsible for agricultural affairs to allow farming to be allowed once again to grow GMO cultures for the purpose of placing on the market, and on the other hand, it defines that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will by decision, undermining and stressing the decision, determine the restriction or prohibition of breeding on the part and the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia for certain GMOs or groups of GMOs of products is not good enough. It is not high enough to be precise enough and leaves a terrible amount of room for manipulation and irregularities. Once again related and colleague for your discussion, yes, it is necessary to strengthen the maximum possible inspection services in the control system. I do not understand how we will do this if we have provided for significantly less resources in the budget for the work of inspection services, but I am sure that the heads of the body will find the possibility to carry out these controls in a quality way and that the results of the inspection services will be transparently controlled by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. But this way, if we leave the bill in this form, I think it leaves a lot of space with all the good will, with the trust of both the promoters and the Government of the Republic of Croatia that it wants to protect the Republic from producing such organisms will not bring anything good to Croatian agriculture. In conclusion, I will not repeat myself in the debate of colleagues and colleagues outside because much has been said. Specific proposals will be made between these two readings to the motionor or the Government of the Republic of Croatia. If they are not incorporated, we will go with the amendments but I repeat once again the proposal for this law in this unspecified form is not good. Perhaps, here is a hypothetical assumption or possibility if we leave such an unspecified form that some real estate agent and for this debate let's call it Tihomir find 10 thousand hectares of agricultural land for one large investor or player the opposite and some other laws that the Government in this country assigned to that player and then accidentally forgets to or exclude it or not be covered by a ban on cultivation that will be passed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We will pass the law in this House, this law speaks of the rules of the game and in this way we can have production at 10 thousand hectares, of a great player who certainly won't have organic production or organic production, but something we don't want in the Republic. Once again, I appeal and ask all of us to fix this law as much as possible in these two readings, bring it into line with the interests of Croatian agriculture, with the interests of the Republic of Croatia and in the most qualitative way we have a legal act that will protect the Republic of Croatia from GMOs, from growing that we do not want, which we do not need and which is not good for Croatian agriculture in the long term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8186	Thank you. The Republic has a distinguished representative Davor Penic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8187	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Jakovina, apparently that GMOs are trying to enter through a small door on the big stage of Croatia in a way that first places the products that we have to buy, because the EU is asking us not to block the traffic of these products, or trade, so first they will teach us how nice and tasty it is and we will start producing ourselves. There is a danger of these fields that will actually be a test field or test and a lot of people starting with MP Tyrelli noticed the problem. So we, with our regulation, need to build into the objectives of our policies, starting with agricultural policy, health, environment, urban planning that such types of experiments do not come to Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8188	Thank you. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8189	In any case, a respected colleague agrees with you in this bill cannot read the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the position of the applicant on the general ban on GMO cultivation. Article 5 is extremely problematic for Croatian agriculture, harmful to the Croatian state and leaves the possibility of a small door, i.e. bypassing the conduct in the spirit of positive legal provisions and protecting Croatian interests. We will not allow it here, we will respect and we will work in the interest of both our counties and the views of all Croatian producers that GMOs in production, in crops must not and should not and will not be on Croatian territory but we must present it to a law that will be very clear, which will be transparent and which will not leave the possibility of small doors, large investors, intermediaries for finding large land particles and new cultures, new... new productions we do not need in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8190	Thank you. And we have here after individual debates of the government's representatives, Minister of Health Mr. Bekavac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8191	Mr. Vice-President, Deputy Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Following everything said in this highly constructive and quality debate, and by accepting the Committee's proposal, I express the opinion of the Ministry of Health that we will accept the debate on the bill in two readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8192	Thank you. Here's the conclusion of the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. The session continues at 3:30 with the Final Proposal for a Law implementing the Parliament and Council Regulation on the placing on the market and use of explosives precursors. Here's a thank you. It's a party in 13.52 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8193	The next proposal is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on genetically modified organisms, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 26. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The Committee on Agriculture proposed the adoption of the following conclusion: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on genetically modified organisms will be discussed in two readings. During the debate, the proposing representative agreed to discuss this legislative proposal in the first reading. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Agriculture, I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on genetically modified organisms will be held in the first reading. And two. Any comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be forwarded to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please engage. Who's to say that? The vote is over. 100 votes in, two abstentions. I find that most of the votes have come to the conclusion that I've formulated it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8194	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15:30 A.M.]] It is on the agenda - THE FINAL PROGRAMME OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF REGULATION (EU) No. 98/2013 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF 15. January 2013 ON THE MARKETING AND USE OF THE EXPLOSIVE PRECURES, THE EMERGENCY PROCEDURE, FIRST AND OTHER READING, P.Z.E. No. 27 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204 and 206 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You received the material by delivery. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an emergency procedure in accordance with Article. 206 Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received reports from those working bodies at the session. Here is a representative of the proposing, Deputy Interior Minister Davor Blažević. Would you like to further explain the proposal? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8195	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The law implementing EU Regulation 9872013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 January 2013 on the placing on the market and use of explosives precursors shall address the following issues. National authorities are designated to be responsible for the implementation of EU Regulation 98/2013 and their obligations. A way of accessing individuals on limited explosives precursors has been prescribed. A national contact point for the notification of suspected transactions or significant disappearances or theft of substances or mixtures or substances containing them and the means of reporting shall be designated to monitor the implementation of the provisions of EU Regulation 98/2013 and this law of an infringement provision to act contrary to the provisions of Regulation 98/2013. The competent authorities for the implementation of the EU 98/2013 and this law are the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Interior. This proposal prohibits an individual from accessing limited explosives precursors listed in Annex 1 to the Regulation and, exceptionally, through the registration system, allows for access to the introduction, possession and use of only three limited explosives precursors and that hydrogen peroxide at a concentration higher than the limit value set out in the Annex to the Regulation or less than 35/, mitrots at concentrations greater than the limit value set out in Annex 1 to the Regulation or below 40 %, nitric acid at concentrations greater than the limit value set out in Annex 1 to the Regulation or less than 10%. Only if the economic operators making them available register each transaction in the manner provided for in Article 8. Regulations. National contact point for the reporting of suspected transactions or significant disappearances or theft of substances or mixtures or substances contained in the MIP establishment unit in charge of international police cooperation. The supervision of the implementation of the provisions of this Regulation shall be carried out by the inspectors of the competent authorities. Infringement provisions prescribe fines ranging from 30-50 thousand kuna for individual offenders and 40-100 thousand for legal persons or crafts. Also for incorrect keeping of prescribed records are penalties for legal persons and trades ranging from 10-30 thousand kuna. Since it is a law governing the implementation of EU Regulation No. The European Parliament and the Council of 15 January 2013 concerning the placing on the market and use of explosives precursors in force from 2 September 2014 and have not taken appropriate measures in the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of its implementation. In order to avoid the initiation of an infringement of EU law, it is proposed to adopt this law by an urgent procedure. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional resources in the State budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8196	Thank you. We are moving on to the committee's rapporteurs, but as far as I can tell, there are no colleagues from Bošnjakovic and no colleagues from Ostojić. So we don't have any reports from the board. We're opening a debate. And on behalf of the HDZ Club, there's an esteemed representative, Angelko Strick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8197	Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. The proposed law implementing EU Regulation No. As from 15 January 2013, the European Parliament and the Council on the placing on the market and use of explosives precursors, the HDZ Representatives Club will accept, in addition to compliance with EU legislation, the law aims to improve the security situation in EU countries in a way that restricts the access of individuals to certain explosive precursors above a certain concentration limit. To make it impossible to produce explosives at home both for terrorist and any purpose and to improve the safety and consciousness throughout the chain of purchase of the precursors. Given that the threat of terrorism has been growing around the world, only in the last 14 years the number of people killed worldwide has increased almost 10 times. According to current data in 2000, 3329 people were killed in terrorist attacks and in 2014. 32658. Only last year, i.e. By September, there were 14 crisis hotspots in the world, with a thousand deaths most in Ukraine, Turkey, Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Libya, Egypt, Nigeria, Chad, Cameron, Niger, Sudan and Yemen, Somalia, South Sudan, Mexico. Some NGOs in the world are also trying to portray terrorist threats in numbers, saying that at global level, the total terrorist incidents in 2014 cost us about 53 billion US dollars. It is not surprising, therefore, that new concepts such as the global index of terrorism, the global index of peace, the economic value of peace and the like are introduced into everyday life. Analysts involved in the study of terrorism thus states that the direct costs of the victims include all those costs that... financial losses. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For example, the cost of treatment, lost previous regular incomes and all material goods on private property that a person loses as a result of the terrorist act itself. While indirect costs are hard to translate into money and most often involve pain, psychological suffering, loss of trust in the legal system or local police. As far as trust in local police is concerned, unfortunately, it was mildly lashed because of recent events involving the disappearance of gold, the disappearance of money from police buildings, then the disappearance of weapons from police warehouses and so forth. In fact, it's not known after a year or four months whether and how many weapons have disappeared from a police warehouse in Varazdin. That weapon probably ended up in the hands of criminal groups and perhaps the hands of terrorists. The only thing Mr Ostojic had to say today on this issue is that criminal research is under way. So after a year and 4 months, the public still has no answer to that question today. The only thing, therefore, is to appeal again from this place to the Minister of the Interior today, namely in this case to the Deputy to investigate the case until the end. Although today, more or less any object can serve as a weapon and the ingenuity of terrorists has no limit on all of us is that we contribute to the threat of peace and security as little as possible and I call upon the honourable advocates and MPs to accept the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8198	Thank you. Is there anything you'd like to say to the Deputy Minister at all? There's no need. In that case, I'll conclude the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. I'm closing this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8199	Now Final Proposal for a Law implementing EU Regulation No. 98/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 January 2013 on the placing on the market and use of explosives precursors, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 27. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law implementing EU Regulation No. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. The European Parliament and the Council of 15 January 2013 on the placing on the market and use of explosives precursors. Please vote. Who's in? The vote is over. I'm finding 101 votes in, two abstentions. Therefore, most votes were passed by the Law implementing the EU Regulation. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. The European Parliament and the Council of 15 January 2013 on the placing on the market and use of explosives precursors.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8200	And today we will still be doing the following point: - Report on the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals for 2014 Proposer: Committee on Presentations and Appeals on the basis of Article 107. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The materials were sent to the Parliament. Whether the applicant wishes to further explain that on behalf of Obera, the esteemed representative Zdravko Ronko, the chairman of the Committee, please make your choice.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8201	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We therefore have before us the Annual Report of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals for 2014 which, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee is obliged to report to the Croatian Assembly on the irregularities observed, the violations of the rules and the rights of citizens in the proceedings before public authorities. The Institute of Presentations and Appeals allows citizens to warn of possible failures, errors, irregularities and violations of constitutional rights by the state authorities, bodies of the local self-government unit and areas of legal persons with public authority and professional services. In accordance with its work cycle, the Committee received 306 written performances in 2014 and 79 repeated performances and complaints of citizens and their additions from 2011, 2012, and in 2013 there were a total of 385 subjects. It should be said when it comes to repeated notions and complaints that, in most of these cases, citizens are dissatisfied with the outcome of the resolution and the actions taken and the answers of the competent authorities and consider this also a reason for the submission of these repeated statements and complaints. ... Thus, it should be said that, even in these cases, the expectations of citizens by this Committee are high and the business powers are limited, the possibilities of concrete assistance are low. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] During the reported period, the most performances and complaints of citizens were received from the work of the judiciary and administration and represent most of all cases. In total, 193 from the work and treatment of courts, long-term court proceedings, decision-making within a reasonable, or unreasonable time-limit, complaints of possible injuries by the prison system, the conduct of police officers, the exercise of the status of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, their employment, housing care as well as the difficult and material situation and poverty, until complaints over the activities of citizens and their property, as well as shown dissatisfaction with the work and conduct of local and regional self-government and administration units. In addition to these 64 cases, they also referred to the concepts and complaints of the exercise of pension and health insurance rights, social care, the protection of the family and the recognition of the rights of pension and health insurance, the exercise of the right to family and disability pensions, the compensation for physical damage and the like. As regards the exercise of rights in the field of social care and family protection, most of the performances concerned the inability to exercise the right of that domain. Therefore, low amounts of minimum fees, especially one-time financial assistance to older people and singles, assistance to settle housing costs, while in a slightly smaller number there were performances and complaints from parents, children with developmental difficulties and persons with disabilities, as well as the address of homeless people without regulated residence or residence. A total of 56 items were related to residential, municipal, property-legal issues. Special complaints about the housing of persons who have returned or come to the area of special state care, ownership rights of the assignment of city, municipal dwellings, purchase of state dwellings, problem of protected tenants, rebuilding houses, protection of rights in the process of realising spatial plans, obstruction of property and others. 16 items were received from the Domain of Work and Working Relations and all performances and complaints were related to infringements of labour rights, invitations to enter into employment, chicing, mobbing, non-payment of salaries, termination of employment relations and methods of termination of employment, etc. Other concepts and complaints were related to various areas of application of the property compensation law seized during the Yugoslav communist rule, the fixed assets and the slowness in resolving these cases, and to complaints against HRT, banks as well as the conduct of individual lawyers and public notaries. In addition, it should be said that, in order to provide quality information and to respond to requests through the Committee, there was also a constant communication with citizens on the phone, fax and e-mail or personal contacts. All submissions and complaints sent to the Committee shall be processed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, shall be recorded, examined, verified and based on the content referred to the competent authorities for the treatment of which the submissions and complaints shall be notified to the applicants within 30 days. It should be said that the board solved 95.5% and cases in 2014. In the event of silence from the administration, inactivity and dispute in resolution following the expiry of the resolution deadlines, the emergency institute was used to protect citizens from harm and further unnecessary waste of time. And in the end, maybe there's something to be commended for. The best co-operation in 2014 in relation to the delivery of responses to the presentations and complaints of citizens was achieved with the Ministry of the Interior. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8202	Thank you. We're opening a debate. The word came out on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community MP Stjepan Pintaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8203	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Unfortunately, I must begin my presentation with the conclusion that today we are discussing the Report of the Committee for 2014 even though it was delivered on 11 May 2015 in the procedure, and it was necessary to discuss it in the same year. I don't know why the Parliament's last meeting didn't discuss it in time. However, as we have so far done a number of 2014 reports, and as I see in the next agenda points, we still have a lot to look forward to. I can only conclude that the last set of furniture in power with everything else, so neither would this one. I'd say the easy part of the job didn't work out. But let's go back to the 2014 report on the Committee's work. Here is the introduction we heard from Mr. President of the new board which has now been formed during this term of office detailing the structure of all performances and complaints as they are classified. I'll have a little more general and a little shorter on the structure itself. Therefore, as stated in the 2014 report, a total of 385 submissions and complaints were processed in the Committee. Of which 306 new and 79 transferred from the previous period from 2011, 12 and 13 years. Here should also be added a circus of three hundred phone conversations that are recorded and many unannounced party arrivals. So it's visible that almost 80 percent of objects per structure are from three areas. This is the judiciary and administration 193, pension and health insurance, social care and protection of family 64 and residential, municipal and property and legal issues, property and legal issues 56. If we compare the number of processed items from 2012 when there were 429 from 2013 when there were 491 with the number from 2014 of 385 we see that there are fewer in the reporting year for the circus 30 percent. In the very structure of the case, the biggest drop in these two other areas, meaning pension and health insurance, social care and housing and property-legal issues, while from the first area, means from the area of justice and administration, the number of processed cases is approximately the same throughout all these years. Therefore, during 2014 as well as in the last years about 50% of the performances and complaints refer to the area of justice and administration. The report is visible, and the chairman of the Committee has explained in more detail what areas are involved. This is the length of individual court proceedings, violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, etc. They then warned of corruption, abuse of positions and powers, the quality and efficiency of the work of the State Attorney's Office and the same tape of citizens complained about the work of all ministries and individual bodies of local self-government. The reports also show that despite the agility and, in my view, relatively good time-limits for solving the case are being resolved within approximately 30 days, the citizens continued to wait very long for answers during 2014. I am stressing here not because of the committee itself but because of the competent authorities who have received the presentations and complaints. In spite of the repeated sending of rushes, the competent authorities did not respond. Among them, I stress mostly the ministries, state offices, Croatian Pension Insurance and the State's Attorney's Office. As I am a new member of the Croatian Parliament, and for the first time I am involved in the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals, I will present several of my thoughts on the possible future work of the Committee and possible measures to eliminate such an inadmissible situation, which is already normally continuing in 2014 and almost the same or similar in 2012 and 2013. Article 107 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have also been established in the work of the Committee where, among other things, it is said that the Committee is considering the presentations, complaints and proposals addressed to the Assembly and points to competent authorities to infringements of the laws and rights of citizens in the proceedings before the authorities of the state administration and legal persons with public authority. This part of the committee's work is done in my opinion properly. However, the same Article defines that the Committee points to the Assembly to violations of the law and other harmful phenomena of broader importance, and what is important proposes to take the necessary measures to eliminate them. Here, for reasons of correctness to the new chairman of committees and committees, I note that so far we have held a constitutional session of the committee and have only defined the general guidelines of future work. So I haven't had a chance to discuss this on the board yet, which we will certainly do, certainly before the 2015 Report. Therefore, the 2014 report and, compared to the 2012 reports, 2013 reports, it is apparent that there were no shifts in the transparency of work primarily in the area of justice and administration in terms of the communication of the state administration body and the units of local self-government with the committee, i.e. that it was largely involved in the work. The silence of the administration to the board. And we can imagine what that just looked like on the citizens' direct enquiries. We also see a significant drop in the number of performances and complaints in 2014, and according to the data from the committee that we received at the constitutive session, the same trend continues in 2015 when there were 349 performances and complaints. What we can interpret as a growing loss of citizens' confidence in the institutions of the state and in this segment. Here I propose that, as part of the reforms that this government will implement in these areas, and in others, with other major changes and much more serious approaches to this problem, that through the amendment of the legislation, the possibilities for improvement and this segment of the state administration to the benefit of citizens are found. It is also evident from the available data that the Committee's previous meeting of the initial 5 sessions in 2012 held 4 sessions in 2014. 2a in 2015 One session. No matter what the presentations and complaints are dealing with the expert services of the board, and only in characteristic cases, or difficult cases, can we conclude that the Committee itself, in its last term, has contributed to this, in my opinion, inadequate, state. I will therefore propose to the Committee that a quarterly meeting be made and analyses the situation and, if necessary, react regardless of what the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament is intended to submit once a year a report to the Croatian Parliament on its work. As far as the report itself is concerned, it is also correct and gives an objective or good picture to say about the poor condition and this segment of the functioning of the former government during 2014. And finally, I am sure that in this segment of the work of the state administration, we will make significant steps in this mandate, and all for the benefit of our citizens. The HDZ Club will support the adoption of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8204	I appreciate the exposure. This concludes the debate. We'll vote on the report when the conditions are met. That concludes today's session. Tomorrow we begin work at 9.30 p.m. and agenda item Report on implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2015. Thank you very much and see you tomorrow! Session interrupted at 15.58 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-20-0.u8205	The following is the 2014 report on the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals. The report shall be submitted by the Committee on Presentations and Appeals. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. A report on the work of the 2014 Committee on Presentations and Appeals is hereby adopted. Please vote. Who's in? The vote is over. 103 votes in favour, none against nor abstention. I find that the conclusion has been reached unanimously. Good morning, colleagues and colleagues. Can we start with today's work? Here I see the esteemed representative, Dragica Zgrebec, raising her hand. Here you go.
