ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3065	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed MPs and MPs. The State Audit Office provided the Croatian Assembly with a report on the audit of efficiency, prevention and detection of fraud in companies owned by units of local and regional (regional) self-government. The audit includes 106 companies in the City of Zagreb and 20 counties. The objectives of the review were to determine whether companies had established appropriate policies, procedures and controls to prevent fraud, to determine whether they were taking the necessary activities to increase the awareness of managers and other employees of the possibility of fraud. To assess the effectiveness of the internal control system in view of the risks of fraud and to determine which activities companies have established to detect fraud as soon as possible. The audit covers business for 214 and, depending on the risk assessment for certain areas of audit, the earlier periods are also covered. As criteria for the assessment of effectiveness, prevention and detection of fraud, the requirements discussed were contained in the documents adopted by the International Organisation of the Supreme Audit Institutions in the last few years to contribute to a more successful prevention and detection of fraud. The rating is expressed separately for each individual company. Attention is paid to specific circumstances in view of the size of the companies and the number of employees. It is thus estimated that in societies with fewer employees it is not expected to have regulated policies and procedures in writing to prevent and detect fraud. In such societies, the focus of the study was on direct evidence procedures. On the basis of the audit of the facts identified, taking into account the objectives set by the audit, the State Audit Office estimated that out of 106 companies covered by the audit, 7 companies had taken the necessary action to prevent and detect fraud. 84 companies have taken action to prevent and detect fraud in which certain improvements are needed and 15 companies have not taken the necessary action to prevent and detect fraud and significant improvements are needed. The audit identified irregularities and failures affecting the assessment of effectiveness, prevention and detection of fraud concerns policies and procedures to prevent fraud, the responsibility of managers and other employees to prevent fraud, the internal control system in view of the occurrence of fraud and of analytical and other fraud detection procedures. In addition, other irregularities have been assessed separately by direct evidence procedures and relate to irregularities in the field of cash registering, payment and compensation, public procurement, use of vehicles, mobile phones, employment and promotion, borrowing and publication of data and information on websites. For identified failures, the State Audit Office has made recommendations and opinions to contribute to the establishment of a standard of conduct whose application would reduce the possibility of fraud, increase the awareness of managers and other employees of the possibility of fraud and their obligation to report suspicion of fraud and improve the system of disclosure of irregularities and reporting of fraud. Finally, this will contribute to the prevention and early detection of fraud and better management of public funds, greater transparency and, of course, greater accountability. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3066	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take the floor maybe? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The debate will be held first on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club by the distinguished representative Blaženko Boban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3067	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you and wish you a good morning with the beginning of today's work of this week's Parliament. There is another report ahead of us in a series of reports, and then I must remember the sentence of the respected representative Goran Marić when we discussed the General Report on the work of the State Audit which made it clear that it is necessary to discuss the work of institutions that are surrounded by individual audits and not the audit itself. Now let me say, as far as this revision is concerned, it's really great, and I really thank you from your heart, because given your job and your previous actual audit, it's a big step towards preventing it, I would say indifference in any segment of work and activity of any institution, company or anything else. So the person who takes the review seriously will realize that the revision means a lot. However, here in this case as regards the revision I will only say this that I think it is necessary after these reports to make and audit the effectiveness of us here in this assembly. Because this fellow gentlemen has been sitting with us for 7.8 days and will be sitting maybe 4, 5 more points we have, sitting with us here and all the squads saying that the review report is good, beautiful and great, but the problem is what it says in the revision. And then we charge them here, their precious time and they could have done so much effective work in these 7.8 days and this next 2, 3 days. Therefore, I will ask the President-in-Office to continue to try to find a solution not to discuss certain reports of the audit but through the State Audit General's report to cover everything necessary and necessary for their report, and the work of the institutions covered by the audit must be specific points, not through the State Audit report. Here's so much about it, and I hope that this observation of mys should also be to us here on efficiency over the past 7, 8 days and the next 2, 3 days will really fall to fertile soil so that this report reviewing for the next period will change as far as the agenda is concerned. Indeed I have already said the HDZ Club will support this report auditably and with a small indication. This may be one of the worst reports on the score. Because when you have 106 of the subjects on which audit surveillance is carried out 7 of them is good, 84 mediocre and when I'm at this 84 just one small remark but let it be personal, and that's if we take these 7 as a school grade as they do, those 15 as negative then these 84 fall into the category from -2 to +4. Maybe it would be good to draw a line somewhere, maybe one of these 84 barely slipped through and got a negative 2 and entered this category, and maybe someone just lacks the shade to be a character, or to get this report plus 4 grade. So it would be very good if we didn't put these 84 in one category, but to draw the upper home somewhere, the lower home of this middle category. But as we have the only chance to look back through these reports, we also look back at those entities that are involved in this audit. I have to say again that I think this is one of the worst reports. Because when you have out of 106 subjects only 7 who have no objections, then the question is, who is the culprit? And I think the HDZ club also thinks it's a double culprit. Because legislation obviously doesn't work with legislation if you have this kind of audit result for utility companies. Because if in one class after one control class, the whole class gets 2 or 1 then it's that teacher or that teacher. So here I think it's legislation about this action, the work of utility companies and companies, maybe the reason why we're changing laws, we change regulations almost from week to week, and then people on the ground don't get along. Maybe they're working under some previous laws and regulations and then there's a revision and then he says you shouldn't have done things like this. But I'm just going to concentrate for a little while on what's the issue, and that's leadership within these companies that are leaning on local administrations. I do not see anywhere what responsibility it may be to say so to the person who is at the head of that local administration, the mayor, the mayor or the mayor and should be because ultimately they are the ones who in some way under their control have both utility companies and companies within their local administrations. And when I talk about it, I've analyzed these 106, and really there's no room here for politics or anything because when you analyze them then you'll see that almost equally from all spheres of action, either left or right, the center comes to companies that really haven't met the basics of these 15 last ones that really are going to say I'm going to school again they've got a negative grade. There you have, and you can't share regionally, because you have from Istria, Slavonia, Međimurje, Dalmatia companies, you have left, you have right, when I don't talk to companies, then I mean the local community leaders from which these companies come. And then the question is, what do you do to make it not so? We have already concluded that there is a need for a good review of the legislation that requires the work and operation of these companies under certain laws and regulations and regulations, which is not, at national level, a question, that is a question of this home, that is a question of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which must indeed be clearly precise and once put to a longer period of legal norm and regulations on which to act. But as far as local administration is concerned, it really is necessary, in my humble opinion, to introduce the treasury as is the obligation but not yet so far, so we are going back to that legislative part of the municipal and commercial societies within the local administration. I think it takes the introduction of a treasure, that it takes the adoption of an ethical code in order not to happen like this, don't let God cheat within this system. The internal control systems certainly do not work effectively or do not work at all. Public procurement procedures, today according to the new Public Procurement Act, are well known and are available for works and services, for works you have 500 thousand kuna limit public publication and 300 thousand kuna for services. Now, of these companies here 106, believe me, there are over 50% of them whose annual budget may be 2 or 3 or 4 million kunas. There is a very possible malfeasance, there is a very possible fraud because it is in accordance with the Public Procurement Act almost for any purchase it works during the year is not obliged to carry out the public procurement of over 500 and 300 thousand kuna respectively. And then the potential possibility is that this Public Procurement Act, when it comes to these companies, communal and commercial companies within the local administration, should also be broken down, or restricted to a lower limit so as not to have someone from the utility company, any order-based order order 490,000 kuna works or 290,000 kuna services. And that may be his biggest order over the years or the biggest segment of public procurement. Furthermore, it really is necessary and I'd like to spend it like that, I've already spoken to the treasurer, but I'll repeat why the treasurer. Because under the glass of the public and under the glass and audits and the public are indeed, much under greater increase are local administrations, mayors, mayors, mayors of local administrations. And when networked into one treasure shop, inside that local administration you have utility companies and utility companies, then it will be much easier to control these utility companies and these companies within the local administration. And for the very end, I'll just say this yes, the revision is really necessary. Perhaps a broader revision is needed, not only on this segment but on almost every segment of action, because it is in some way a body that, for all people of good will deliberately, warns us about the well-intentioned, which works on irregularities and negativity, which occur within the system, whether public companies, were local administrations. Because every segment that comes back with the review report, if it is corrected and it would have to be corrected next year, that company will cross between these 7 or at least those of 15 in this 84. Indeed, I hope that we will all understand that these audits are needed now and must be in order for this system to finally be free from corruption, fraud and all that is happening through this review report. Unfortunately, here are almost 84% of the companies this audit has visited. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3068	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3069	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Boban, you've done well, you've commended the audit. Local Self-Government, i.e. companies owned by local self-government, all the frauds that take place and which the state audit now describes for 2014, you have asked one question as to what to do. That's the key question. In all the previous audit reports and especially now around companies, it is evident how you have said from 106 audits made by companies only 7 received a positive opinion. Now let's imagine, if we're going to take just one item, we're not going to public procurement, we're not going to hire, we're not going to use funds who knows how much of it is with those local sheriffs just to use the vehicle on the weekends. How many million kunas for fuel, who controls it? Is that key on a locker or is it in their pocket so they drive their children to rest, to tourist destinations? So the revision is doing its job neatly, the legislation needs to be arranged and which, through the fingers of the girls of billions of kuna, tells us how much our deficit is only on these items are billions of kunas can be reduced, which I said on the use of the local sheriff's vehicle and these companies. So until it moves, the revision does its job, the legislation should be clear, but the control mechanisms in the Croatian society are not working and that is the basic problem and therefore we have no sanctions and the DORH is doing it selectively. That's the basic problem as in all the reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3070	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Blaženko Boban will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3071	Dear Representative Miro Bulj, in your replica I agree with this part that unfortunately the girls millions but I can't, I really can't, and I'm going to be constantly at this point and any other point that comes to this honorary Parliament of Croatia, which is that you call such a dictionary person who many or many large majority really work hard within their local communities. And enough of that calling local sheriffs. It's really enough of that. I ask you people that 80% of people work honestly and honestly in the field in their municipalities, their cities and their counties. That one, two or three percent of the people who do malfeasance or this or that you can't generalize as local sheriffs. Don't do that, because in this way trust me with the sincere will to work your local community for the benefit of Croatia you kill in those over 95% of honest people who work in the field within their local administrations and this term local sheriffs and I sincerely ask you all to stop already. Let's get out of this. By name and last name, let's say Ante Antić, Stipe Stipic or I don't know who did it, but generalising that someone local sheriff through these malversions is really funny. I'm honestly telling you that this audit report is excellent and I agree with you here, but the tragedy I must say is probably also legislation. I'll repeat, if in one class, one of the 25 students gets one and one gets two, then something's wrong with the teacher's team who set up that control team or something else. So in this audit report, we must also start with legislation within this segment and work, not all of it on people and still call them local sheriffs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3072	Thank you. We will now continue with the clubs of MPs and the next will be respected Damir Tomic on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3073	Thank you, Mr. President, respected auditors. I would just refer to a few words that Mr. Boban said at the beginning that he would have the impression that he thinks we're wasting time discussing these reports and that we could discuss important things for 7 days maybe we could discuss them that the HDZ government and the Most has something to say. But let's start with this report. The SDP Club will propose that this report be accepted. The report well defined the subjects and objectives of the audit, the area and the method of revision, the precise criteria for the assessment of effectiveness, the results of the audit, the assessment of the effectiveness of the detection and prevention of fraud in companies owned by units of local and regional self-government, and so the State Audit Office carried out how we had already heard the review of the effectiveness of the prevention and detection of fraud in 106 companies. These procedures cover business for 2014 and, depending on the risk assessment for certain areas of audit, earlier periods are also covered. On the basis of the fact that the State Audit Office has assessed that 7 companies have taken the necessary action to prevent and detect fraud, 84 companies have undertaken activities to prevent and detect fraud, requiring certain improvements and 15 companies have not taken the necessary activities to prevent fraud detection and significant improvements are needed. The State Audit Office has made recommendations to be made in order to establish standards that will reduce and eliminate fraud. It was found that the general acts did not regulate the giving and receiving of gifts, the use of the company's funds exclusively for business purposes, no procedures for reporting and reporting of a possible conflict of interest as well as the obligations of managers and other employees in the event of suspected fraud. It has also been established that the functioning of internal controls, i.e. the written procedures of the regulated control activities, procedures and the manner in which they are applied and which stages of the process, and who is authorised and responsible for their implementation, are not regulated. It can be concluded that there is a need for continued activity by state institutions, but also by the institution of local and regional self-government to establish legal frameworks and standards of conduct whose application would lead to more responsible management of companies and would increase transparency and accountability in the use of public funds. The question arises, however, what is with responsibility for infringements of the legal rules in the management of companies. Furthermore, the question is how to follow the implementation of the recommendations made. The non-transparentity in a large number of cases in terms of material costs, fuel consumption, use of official mobile phones, etc. is evident. There is no employment plan for some units of local and regional self-government that has become commonplace. In some cases donations are also granted on an arbitrary basis. There are these examples even more, but more important than them and that is also the essence of possible problems in companies is a possible conflict of interest. As I have already said, and the revision has not established the procedures for reporting and reporting of a possible conflict of interest. The question also arises who should determine these procedures. For example, in a commercial company, it is possible to do so. It is therefore possible for the president of the city council to also be president of the Supervisory Board of Trade Society owned by units of local self-government, nothing disputed, to move on. The same chairman of the Supervisory Board shall appoint the owner of a private company to the director of the company. It's nothing controversial again. The director of the same Supervisory Board shall then appoint the Director's adviser 10 days after the appointment of the Director. And then the two of them invoice the accounts to the private company director. Is there an audit of the answers to these questions and can be said here who needs to determine the procedures for reporting a possible conflict of interest when those who are in this conflict want and remain in it. Unfortunately, this example is not fiction. The company is covered by this revision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3074	Thank you. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Blazenko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3075	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Tomic, you said the president of the City Council could also be the chairman of the Supervisory Board. Here's exactly the example I'm talking about. We can't transfer everything to the local administration. We can transfer it to the local administration. We can transfer everything to the local administration. So, at national level, such things should be excluded, not here and here and in the government, in some way sitting under a policy coat and just judging people on the ground where every day or once a week we change regulations and laws. Here is one example that you have now pointed out that the legislator must prescribe that the president of the City Council in this case that you pointed out cannot be any councilman on the control boards of municipal companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3076	Thank you. The honourable representative Tomic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3077	Thank you very much. I don't think the problem is that the president of the City Council is also the chairman of the company's Supervisory Board. So I don't come from that ruling majority, so I'm not defending it for that. The problem is this second dimension I said. So, as chairman of the company's Supervisory Board, he hires the director of his best man who also owns a radio in Djakov. Ten days later, that man, the director, appointed him as a consultant to the director. For a nice salary with a contract where he's protected more than we advocates here. And then what happens? They happen to invoice the accounts of this private radio, and despite the requests made by the Commissioners for Information to obtain contracts and the amount of financing of these media, and they are monopolies and they have to advertise on the radio non-stop, we can't get that. Now these problems are real, that's the conflict of interest I'm talking about, that's the essence of the problem in managing companies. I agree once again and on what you said should not be generalized but precisely because we will not generalise, we need to set examples with specific names, names and company names.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3078	Thank you very much. The next one, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, will be taken by the distinguished representative Ljubica Ambrusec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3079	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Vice-Presidents, representatives of the State Audit Office, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The report of the State Audit Office shows that it has carried out an audit of the effectiveness, prevention and detection of fraud in 106 companies owned by units of local and regional (regional) self-government in 20 counties and the City of Zagreb. The audit procedures cover operations for 2014, and depending on the risk assessment for certain areas of the audit are also covered earlier periods. The subject of the audit was policies and procedures to prevent and detect fraud and the activities that companies undertake to prevent and detect fraud. On the basis of the review of the established facts, the State Audit Office assessed that 7 companies had undertaken the necessary activities to prevent and detect fraud. 84 companies have taken action to prevent and detect fraud in which certain improvements are needed and 15 companies have not taken the necessary action to prevent and detect fraud and significant improvements are needed. Therefore, the State Audit Office has made the following recommendations which the MOST Club considers to be extremely correct and above all acceptable and applicable as follows. To regulate the ethical values, business principles and obligations to stakeholders and to conduct them in the event of implementation. To regulate the giving and receiving of gifts and the hosting process or how the team is used, as considered under the representation and method of using the team, the use of funds for the organisation exclusively for business purposes. Set the allowed level of mobile phone costs depending on the actual business needs of the workplace and monitor the costs of mobile phones and the use of official vehicles. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: Establish the standard fuel consumption and monitor fuel consumption, control and verify fuel purchase accounts, establish fuel consumption records individually per vehicle. Compare the quantities of fuel delivered, fuel consumption according to manufacturer norms, actual consumption and justification of deviations. Bring in written procedures on cash registering and oversee the cashier's business. Take appropriate care of the access of the company's assets outside of working hours. To regulate decision-making procedures to ensure the highest level of accountability and transparency. General acts shall arrange procedures for the reporting and reporting of potential conflicts of interest and obligations of managers and other employees in the event of suspected fraud. Maintaining the education of fraud employees, which is considered a fraud, in which way fraud harms society and how suspicious activities should be reported. General acts shall regulate physical independent controls and checks, regularly evaluate functional internal control systems and specific areas of business with a higher risk of fraud. Develop appropriate countermeasures and action plans to manage the risks of fraud, establish the approval of financial transactions above certain amounts. Explore suspicious transactions, hidden relations between individuals, organisations and events. Procedures and techniques to detect fraud include all levels of responsibility. Regularly monitor data relating to the area subject to fraud. Set up anonymous and confidential notification channels for employees of service users, suppliers and other stakeholders through which they can point to suspicious activities and ensure the protection of persons who report suspected fraud. Keep track of applicable complaints that may point to fraud and inactivity, adopt annual employment plans which would determine the actual state of filling of jobs identified by the systematisation and the number of employees required, regulate procedures and procedures of employment, establish criteria for the evaluation and ranking of candidates on the basis of tenders published in public votes and on the websites, keep records of the selection procedure and make written decisions on the selection of candidates, control the accuracy and completeness of certificates, diplomas and other employment documents, establish criteria and criteria for the progress of employees. General acts shall determine the way in which the salaries and the rights, obligations and responsibilities of the managers and other employees in the employment relationship are accounted in accordance with the general acts. To pay a fee for coming and going from work to employees on the basis of a certificate from the carrier on the level of actual costs and in accordance with the general acts. Review the justification and frequency of the approval of the stimulated part of the salary and determine the criteria and criteria for its calculation. All the necessary elements shall be indicated by the members of the administration to contract salaries of gross amount and on the accounts of salaries. The procurement plan comes before the start of the business year. To assess the risks involved in the implementation of procurement procedures, to apply the prescribed procurement procedures, to adopt written procedures for the initiation and implementation of procurement procedures which establish the business processes and that the responsibilities of the employees involved in the preparation and implementation of the procedure. By means of an internal act, prescribe the obligation to collect bids for higher value purchases. From appointed authorised representatives for the implementation of the procurement procedure, obtain a written declaration of the absence of a conflict of interest. Implementing public procurement procedures for the conclusion of framework agreements, decisions preceding the conclusion of the procurement contract to be previously recorded in documents. Establish special control of public procurement procedures, maintain a register of public procurement contracts and framework agreements. Follow the purchase of goods, works and services according to completed contracts, monitor and evaluate the way the purchase of selected suppliers has been published, and assess whether the supplies, works and services are really necessary and optimally used? Making public procurement reports. Provide assistance to competent employees in the public procurement system in the prevention of corruption and fraud. On the website, publish public procurement procedures and whether there are economic operators with which the client is in conflict of interest. By means of a general act, arrange the accounting, control and collection of income and take the collection measures. To carry out the full annual list of assets and liabilities and to coordinate accounting with the real situation. To establish the criteria for the award of grants, and to take into account their justification in view of the company's activity. To monitor the purpose of using donations, to publish on the web pages a list of donations paid or the recipient of donations and amounts. On the website, publish annual plans, investment plans, programmes, work reports strategies and financial reports. General acts, internal structures and minutes and conclusions from official meetings. Information on the donations and sponsorships awarded, public procurement plans, the rules on the implementation of the bagatile procurement, information in public procurement procedures and documentation for the imposition of a public procurement contract register and other information affecting the interests of users under the Law on the right to access information. Based on all these legal recommendations of the State Audit Office in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, I consider that report positive and we propose to adopt it with a recommendation on the application of all of the above improvements recommended by the State Audit Office, which I thank the esteemed superiors. I also mention my own personal finding, as it were, if everyone followed those recommendations and we applied them thoroughly, I think our country would be much more orderly and not all of us would be where we are unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3080	Thank you very much. Your presentation has caused a replica, and it is the esteemed representative of Željko Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3081	Your Honor, when I see these people here trying to do their job at that tactical level, I wonder what they can do when at the state level, we don't have effective, crystal clear laws and a mechanism to implement them. How can we talk to them about the rule of law and revision when we have at the state level, we see that we have 1.2 million unsolved cases, 40,000 companies without one employee, etc. We've had populations in the suburbs of London and for 20 years we've been dealing with how to create an effective state? What are these government agencies doing? Well, first of all, why don't we ask ourselves why there's no anti-corruption center at the state level? Why don't night courts work like in other states? It doesn't take this judge, it needs a legal person who can come with a warrant and it works, it grinds 24 hours a day. But if that's the issue of ethics in schools, in colleges, the first law in the former state was socializing and we have it today. We crucify a man for one stoner in Samobor and there sit the heads that are worthy, which owe the state millions of kuna. It's just a farce from the rule of law for me. People who now have 4.5 companies under lockdown and we are now discussing a local audit. Without these changes at the top we won't go far, and I hope this government will establish a rule of law because when morality goes away then the law comes into force and I hope so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3082	Thank you. The distinguished representative Ljubica Ambrusec will respond. Nothing. Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Representatives' Club, the next one will be taken by the distinguished representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3083	I would like to thank Mr. President, the respected state's chief auditors with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I must honestly admit that from day to day everything we hear more and more about the state audit reports I am becoming more depressed and I believe our citizens when these reports speak about what kind of society we live in and what's happening to us. So we can say that all reports of state audits are given unconditional opinion in this House. They are good, the fact that they show well, however, what we can change here and what these reports are essentially saying. The subject of this revision was therefore policies and procedures to prevent and detect fraud and activities taken by companies to prevent and detect fraud. A fraud is usually characterized by deception, deception, concealment, or breach of trust with the aim of obtaining or obtaining an unwarranted or unfair advantage. Citizens are extremely sensitive to any fraud, concealment, alienation of property, fraud in financial reporting, corruption, especially when it comes to social property or more precisely when fraud is done by those who manage the property on behalf of and on behalf of citizens who have shown confidence. But the fact is also that citizens are most and most often accusing the most of the structures of government, from prime ministers to parliamentary deputies. And this particular state audit report shows that the sole culprits of bad are not always the ones most called. So today we are talking about companies owned by municipalities, cities and counties, companies engaged in municipal activities, activities of production and distribution of water, collection and purification of water, draining, transport of passengers, design and management of business zones, waste management, gas supply, maintenance and construction of sports facilities, parking management and construction, development agencies and others. Citizens each month receive shipping tickets for garbage, for water consumption, for graves, for rainwater, for spent gas, pay bus tickets and parking tickets for every hour of parking in their municipality or city. And precisely because of these tickets and these tickets, this report is important for all of us to see how and how our goods are managed and whether the mayors, the mayors and the mayors have justified their trust. So, all these companies we're talking about in this report, there are 106, as we said, receiving subsidies from municipalities, cities and counties owned or based on the ownership structure. Since citizens in these same municipalities and cities pay taxes, income taxes and all other taxes, it is very important that they know how these companies operate and what is actually happening in these companies and how. The audit has identified a series of irregularities, and a colleague before me has listed everything in the audit report. I'm going to try to maybe a little more picturesquely explain to a company that deals with passenger transport, it's owned by two cities and six municipalities in my Istria and one rural development agency. The audit found that there were no arrangements for giving and receiving gifts for hosting even though some things were defined by ethical codes. It does not say anywhere and it is not specified how much the director will spend on the team at all, what is the reason for such expenditure in most cases and when it can be done. And if we went to gather all these companies, then we would really come up with very large amounts. In most cases, general acts do not guarantee the anonymity and protection of persons who report suspicion of fraud. So to be more specific, they're not protected as we like to call them whistlers. People who would still morally want to point out some shortcomings. That would mean that an employee who sees irregularities better not tell anyone anything about them because it's easy to lose his job. But when we read this report, the question is, at all, who would and what would say, given that most likely the same employee came to work only by the director's decision without any draft minutes, without any public tender published, without any clear criteria, without a commission to evaluate a potential job candidate, and that is exactly what this report points to. But another question arises why should we even need criteria and this commission to select candidates when the directors of employment without any staffing plan. So we don't know how many employees we need in the current year or next, but we do know that the director can hire as many as he thinks he needs. We've had cases of very high-level scales for staffing, replacing ministers for similar things, but I haven't heard that any municipality or city has replaced the director of a utility company for the same things. And it's not that much of a job, it's that no owner or founder of that company has thought about whether this new employee is competent and professional and whether or not it will bring any added value to that company. The problem is much bigger when we read the report in that section relating to that bus company that I mentioned at the beginning in which the audit board is manifested in a way that the director hired bus drivers for a certain time without a competition because some drivers went into retirement, some have been on sick leave for a long time and so on. But for a year, the fact is that the driver is on probation, and how he drives the bus, whether or not he knows how to control the traffic controller and the techniques, the manager of the quality control system, the traffic controller and the controller. And that's how one year it gets a valid impression of the ability of that one candidate. No one asks how many children, for example, these same buses, that same driver drove daily and whether he can or can't. They state in the same society that they are not obliged to call a tender through the Croatian Employment Service, but show good will that they will agree with the majority owner in the way and procedures of employment. And I'm asking myself if that means that the mayor doesn't know how people are employed in commercial companies now. No official car fuel consumption norms are established, no fuel consumption records per vehicle are kept, no passenger work sheets are certified by the signature of the person using the official vehicle, no vehicle movement records are established. This same vehicle was purchased and paid for by the money of the citizens and it is only found that something was not done, but otherwise more precisely, if it were any entrepreneur who bought this vehicle with his money, the Tax Administration in Tax Control determines irregularities in the use of that vehicle and, most often, the tax control record does not just stand a warning but also stands a fine. The general act does not regulate the procedures for the control of the accounts and the payment of salaries and fees. When calculating and paying salaries and fees, no fees were made for the control of the approved changes related to the billing of salaries and fees, the payment lists do not contain all the necessary elements, the wages are agreed in a net, instead of gross, the incentives are not accounted for and paid in accordance with the general acts and there is no written justification for their payment. If this were to happen to any entrepreneur, any craftsman in the Republic of Croatia would have been terribly, terribly large, so large that the same entrepreneur would most likely have to close down the company or crafts because he would not have the means or opportunities to settle the financial penalty that the IRS cut him off. We're talking here that there's no written explanation for paying off the stimulating part of the salary, but that same director at the beginning of my exposure that employs workers in that same car transport company can therefore voluntarily determine how much and which worker gets the stimulating part on the salary. And that raises the question of who benefits, how and how we can manage human resources in a quality way. We know that one of the biggest added values of each company, especially companies owned by companies, is owned by units of local and regional self-government just the quality management of human resources, their motivation and their satisfaction. However, if the director takes the liberty of assessing who it was that deserved stimulation or didn't deserve it, the question arises, so what about those other workers. I agree with what has been said that we must not generalise things and that we should call names and last names those who do not comply with the laws and regulations. All these reports have a name and a last name because behind each company owned by municipalities, cities and counties there are people who manage these companies. And when we do, I sincerely hope that both the mayors and the mayors and the mayors will also read these reports, not only of us MPs, and that they will make concrete decisions that need to be replaced by the head of the company in the administration, and who deserves to stay. Commendation to all who have received unconditional opinion, although few, thus only seven give us hope, or they assure us that it is normal to work in accordance with the laws, rules, and quite possible. And precisely because of those seven, all the rest of them are more subject to our criticisms because they showed not that they don't know, but simply don't want to. Croatian Labourists will accept this report as well as all State Audit reports because there is no reason not to accept it, but we continue to insist that the State Audit in any case, or these State Audit reports should in any case be sanctioned in a different way by those who violate the system laws and regulations because if this happens soon I think that the State Audit will lose motivation for any further action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3084	Thank you very much. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Blazenko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3085	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Representatives, Nancy Tyrelli, I must reassess here that you, in your report, despite what you said in your last sentence, will not generalize yet generalize, so I could be so free and say flat-rate. Namely, if you have carefully studied this table here in the State Audit report, then you have 6 and 5 categories of those where the recommendation for companies in the correction are these other irregularities which we do not see here and here in this report exactly what other irregularities are but these policy irregularities and procedures to prevent fraud, the responsibility of managers and other employees, the internal control system, analytically and other procedures would be said below this category. I know that it's easy here to discuss this issue with you and all those who sit here under the coat of politics and debate on the basis of this report on a flat-rate basis and still generalise that there are some local sheriffs on the ground. That way, I remember when back in the day that I didn't call anyone here by name, a very important institution in the state came a man and said, "Now I'm going to deal with the local sheriffs." We here give such people a salary that really on the ground at 556 local administrations are putting pressure on them, not as studioically and thoroughly as the State Audit really did and thank them. The other thing, I said in my report these 84 believe me I don't know I don't have the data here but I'm convinced that over 50% of them may be in grade 3 or 4. That's why I said it might be necessary to draw a line in that category 84 and tell those who were a little short to be excellent, especially to single out those who had barely passed and got -2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3086	Thank you. The distinguished representative, Nancy Tyrelli, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3087	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague, you've been more replicating yourself than I have, but I'm going to refer to the part you mentioned. I didn't mention local sheriffs in any part because that's not what I call mayors, mayors and mayors, and I just said I shouldn't and shouldn't generalize things because every one of these reports has a name and name. I honestly believe that you have not only read this summary of the State Audit report but that you have clicked on those counties and those individual reports where exactly all companies are listed and if you have given yourself a little time I believe that you have been able to see behind each company who manages these companies and in whose company it is owned. Therefore, I am not generalising things, but I am just warning that each report is individual, and if we want to detect who it is below or above your border we are going to the analysts, let us look at every report for ourselves, let us come to the knowledge and then each of us parliamentary representatives in our county, in our municipality or in our city we insist on this same mayor, mayor or mayor to launch and perform certain actions so that the president of that administration, or the one who manages those companies that we have been convinced that he is not doing well as soon as possible and as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3088	Thank you very much. Next, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, they will take the floor of the distinguished representative Anka Mrak Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3089	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed auditors along with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is a report on the prevention and detection of fraud in companies owned by local self-government units. It is 106 companies owned by local units in 20 counties and the City of Zagreb. Each report should be seen in the context of the present, the past and the future. The present, that's what we have now, we need to see what was in the past and whether some improvements were made, and also we need to remember it and see for the future that we can compromise it. That's the meaning of the report and that's the meaning of progress. The same way when you see, I roughly divided the topics when it came to preventing and detecting fraud, grouped into 5 groups. One group is employment, a salary account. The other group is gifts and donations. Third group of vehicles and cell phones. The fourth group of public procurement. According to these five groups, an analysis was made, and these five groups were given recommendations, and now we get to someone when they're always eyes to the capital. What the capital does is clearly seen in other parts of the Republic of Croatia. Not long ago, just two, three months ago, according to the model of the city of Vienna, our capital was created by a guide to curb corruption. This anti-corruption guide was the result of a report like this and one such surveillance. You had a chance to see in our media that when it came to that guide that then the main theme was candy and flowers. So when you get a candy gift then it's not in the sense of corruption if you share with your associates and if you get flowers and if you put it on the table and put it in the hallway. However, all that is the purpose of preventing and detecting corruption and what can be done has been covered by this candy and these flowers. It was also covered by the way of official vehicles and the way the mobile billing and the way of employment and the way the diploma was checked. Not so long ago and equally found that people were employed without adequate diplomas when it comes to Zagreb's Holding. So a series of things were covered under flowers and candy. It is equally said that this guide is modeled in Vienna. Well, we had a chance to see before the other day that when it comes to the city which is pleasant for life is Vienna in the first place and Zagreb in 98. So I have a feeling when it comes to both this guide and what he needs to be is the same relationship. So the purpose of a report like this is to establish that it's not good, but it's also the point of removing what we need to remove in the future. But not in a way that we can stain the candy and the flower eyes of all of us, but in a way that is really essentially made. When it is done by holding and the capital where there are so many employees and when it is open, public and transparent asset management, when it is seen by the criteria of employment, when it is seen by which criteria are paid, when it is seen by which criteria official vehicles are used, then we will be able to say that there is a job done. So I hope that in some report that will come in a year or two of the larger lights of the auditors will be that such an enterprise with elements where we see what is detected, what is made and what is the situation now. According to the example of the city of Zagreb, it is certain that all others should make certain recommendations, certain guides, but what is the point, the point is that it is actually implemented. In parallel with this guide is only illustrations for, it says that corruption is if you issue a building permit for a residential settlement and someone offers you an apartment. In parallel with this, the city of Zagreb is open through the media and the problem of using permits and where these apartments were issued, as it was open and closed. The point is really when a review report establishes an irregularity to consistently see the result and to see the way in which this irregularity is removed. And then let's go back a little bit to these 106 companies that are being watched and see what the result of that revision is through those 106. I'm a technical person, and then it's the simplest thing for me to think about in some of the famous categories. There's a curve called Gauss's curve. This curve is used by everyone, used at school, used when you get some kind of report, used when you evaluate someone, when you're a civil servant, and then you evaluate someone, and then that Gauss curve is either a regular or a bell tower. It's in the middle, so the mean is about 68% and the left and the right is equal to the schedule. When you put this report in that curve, then you see that in the center is 79%, or 84, the ones that are medium-rated and that we discussed and that on the one hand is 7th and on the other side is 15th. Or, on the one hand, 7% and 15% on the other. What she's going to say is that we're going the right way is when she's right. That means when both sides are equal schedules. You'll always have the same as in any school that's bad, the ones that are great, but it's our idea that in the middle of those who are well rated be as good as possible. That means that on the right hand side, that's how I imagine these 15 percent curves to cut down and go into the middle. We've had opportunities to be here with our Audit Office for days to hang out. I believe it's not difficult for them because from this pay phone of all those who spoke before me and I hope that's how it's going to be behind us, we're estimating it extremely well. Therefore, the HNS club will also absolutely support this report. However, this report should not be seen dryly, it should be looked really in the context of the past, the context of the future. And what we do with this report is we need to improve that when this Gauss curve comes next, it's the way we want it to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3090	The next word will be taken by the esteemed representative, Dario Hrebak, on behalf of the Club of HSLS Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3091	Dear President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Klesic. As usual, Mr. Klesic and your team have made a great report as many times as you have so far. Therefore, we as the Club of Representatives of HSLS, Buz and the independent representative of Mrs Gordana Rusak do not have anything but to support such a concise and precise report. However, the problem is something else, the problem is that we are not satisfied with the data that are truly accurate and that we as representatives could read in this report that you have given us this revision and given us insight. They are obviously devastating and the situation is far from satisfying. You've actually opened our eyes. You opened our eyes because, as the report shows, according to the established facts, the State Audit Office estimated that only 7 companies that were subject to this state audit had undertaken the necessary activities to prevent and detect fraud. 84 companies have taken action to prevent and detect fraud in which certain improvements are needed and even 15 companies have not taken the necessary action to prevent and detect fraud and significant improvements are needed. I will mention only some of the irregularities identified by your audit although, a lot of colleagues have already discussed it, but they are really so negative that they really need to be repeated several times. For example, the use of the company’s funds exclusively for business purposes has not been established by the general acts and the provision of gifts and hospitality, that no procedures for reporting and reporting of a possible conflict of interest have been established. The functioning of internal controls is not regulated, fuel consumption norms are not defined. There's no record of fuel consumption, no use of official cell phones. No written authorisation shall be granted to employees for the purpose of accessing the company's assets outside of working hours. Internal controls aren't arranged to prevent fraud. Business areas where there is an increased risk of fraud have not been assessed. The approval of financial transactions above certain amounts has not been established. Regular surveillance of data relating to areas subject to fraud shall not be carried out. General acts shall not regulate the procedures for the control of the payment of salaries. No annual employment plans have been adopted. There is no obligation to tender and advert in employment. The procurement plan was not adopted before the start of the financial year it relates to. The procurement was carried out through a direct contract without the prescribed procurement procedure, there was no adequate concern for the risks of procurement and no control of procurement procedures was carried out for public employees, no aid was provided for the control of corruption and fraud in the public procurement system, the payment of grants granted by the Director on the basis of individual requests from the grant recipients without established criteria and procedures, grant allocations, no targeted use of paid donations and no lists of donors published on the website and amounts. I didn't want to go any further, because most colleagues here today have exhibited and transmitted everything they say in the State Audit report. However, in conclusion, as a club, we will, of course, support this report, but we must also point out what is coming out of that report and what is our view on it. So today we talk about savings, we see for ourselves what our budget is like. He's in short supply. Many good projects are unlikely to be achieved this year because the money is not available. On the other hand, this report has given us the impression that the money still has. But we're not looking for him in the right place. The solution may even be intruding. All we think is that we need political will at the local level. Already today, one of the fellow MPs spoke about mayors, mayors, the mayors of the municipalities to whom this report is essentially related, which they should take seriously and accept. We get the impression that exactly this report is an indication that the space still has, that the money is still being spent irrationally. I won't dare say a more difficult word. So, we need to introduce stronger control mechanisms, and obviously additional types of sanctions for companies owned by units of local and regional self-government in order for them to really stick to the direction that you, Mr Klesic, have given them this revision and ordered them to do. We need to focus more on not only this segment of our administration, but also on many others who are very likely to come to the agenda of this House, because what we have seen so far is devastating. So, an excellent audit with unfortunately a catastrophic state. Once again, I urge the mayors and mayors to ask each and every part of the companies to whom this report relates and to try to find a consensus solution to make a political will and how together to solve this obvious problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3092	Thank you very much. Now the rest of the time will be used by the distinguished representative Milivo Spik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3093	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. He's teaching on a colleague of the Hrebaka several observations. So, of course, the State Audit works according to a certain methodology and that her job is defined in the way that they found and presented what they did in this report. Therefore, the technical part of the audit report cannot be found in any objection and normally that this should be supported. But what's very important, and what's only here in some small hints is only a part of the people mentioned, and that's what's hidden beneath the surface and what's actually happening inside a lot of these companies that own units of local and regional (regional) self-government as well as in these efficiency public procurement systems, and that's what we all practically know here. We've all had experience, at least I guess in a certain section of the local self-government unit, we've had a chance to see what's going on and how it's happening. And it's hard to get away from that one definition that someone might have mentioned earlier, so he used the word local sheriffs. But we don't have to run from it. Much of the honorable people in their units of local self-government take great care of how the assets of that unit are available by means of these units of local self-government. But let's not forget that there's a very nice number of those that we can freely call local sheriffs who do literally whatever they want in their units, especially when it comes to unintended spending of funds, when it comes to using units of local self-government, from vehicle to what is not. And you have such situations that, of course, the revision can't cover, but which we all know more and more and we don't need to be hypocrites, pretend here that we don't know, we know that in many units of local self-government there are a number of companies and institutions that have considerable resources in which people sit on boards and boards of directors who see miracles both at the same time and co-operatives and in large businesses that are done or that they are doing for these local self-government units. Of course, that reviewing such a game can be difficult to determine because they are watching this technical side of the behavior of the local self-government unit. But we who are related to local self-government units and who have certain experiences know that's not the case. And it's not much of a definition that there's no public procurement that's not set up for someone, it's not very far. The audit cannot determine one fact, that in many of these companies and institutions that we say have huge resources, there are dozens, hundreds of procurement procedures, but they've never served anyone and they haven't served anything, so they're a variety of projects that aren't generally needed by anyone, but there are huge funds, not to mention public procurement procedures that regularly exceed that part. But he always sees the devil within the limit that the law allows. So it's not a matter of the State Review finding or not finding, it's how much this House and we all have the courage here together to say some things is enough. Because it's not too much of a mistake if we say that the largest number of malfeasances and that the maximum amount of funds disappears precisely in local self-government units. And seduce a little order here. Then I don't think the Minister of Finance is going to be much of a problem to sort out this year's budget. But I'm saying the question is if we have the courage to say some things enough, we won't let them do it anymore, or we'll still come here, and we'll absolutely support the review report, it's done professionally, professionally, a series of data, we believe that those who haven't received unconditional opinion will fix it and blah, blah, blah, blah. But do we have the will and strength to repair the situation? Because those whose job it is, here's my predecessor colleague here, he's a graduate criminal, a criminologist, as they say. So, anyway, in his work district, he knows how and what things are going on. And then I'm going to tell you something from a personal example, and I myself have worked in such an institution, and I have experience of how certain public procurement procedures are carried out, how people are employed, and how laws are respected, or I could say it even more clearly, and I know how to go around laws, how to look for holes, how all abuses are sought. Let's just say that at some point we've had enough, especially here this environment that says we want to reform, we want to change. Believe me, and I want to change, I'm one of the 76 of us who's been here for the first time. So 76 of us have an absolute majority in this House and 76 of us can realize everything we say is good for citizens, not talk and do things in a way that we don't see them. And we all see them, we all know them. So once again, of course this report in technical terms has no reason not to support but I believe that the next one will carry with it and what is most important. And what happened to these, the governing structure that allowed these things, what happened to them? We don't see it anywhere. Are they still successful managers, directors, directors of these companies, institutions? If they are, then the audit is obviously doing a wasteful job. 'Cause that's half the job, that other half somebody needs to do, somebody else. I hope warmly that this assembly will in this sense give one significant pain to resolve but also to ex antely enlighten all that is happening at local levels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3094	Thank you very much. Now, at the first presentation of Dario Hrebaka, we have one replica. It's a respected representative of Milorad Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3095	Thank you, Mr. President. In your debate, I took it as an appeal, or you invite the mayors to check what their utility companies are doing. The mayors are acting as presidents of the Assembly or are appointed presidents of the Assembly, and it is always a practice and obligation to give all these reports on the business of municipal companies annually at least once or even some other reports may also be half-yearly or quarterly depending on the statutes of municipal or city councils for consideration in the City Council. So, as far as this information is concerned, I don't think it's a dispute here. This audit report certainly is more than necessary, however it also does not mean that if they do not have certain utility companies, I do not state now or justify the reasons why they do not have, that there is fraud or abuse, etc. And also if some have prescribed it does not mean that there are no deceitful activities etc. So, first of all, it's not a guarantee that the fraud won't happen. But for that there are institutions and there are competent authorities. I would also like to replicate it in a way that it would be good, which is not simple, it is primarily an answer should be given revision, to be seen in those companies, to put one parallel in those companies means where we do not have respected procedures to see their business, their rationality, etc. And then put it on top of those companies where we have everything in place and to see their business, their final result. Then we could conclude here companies don't have complex protocols, procedures, the result is bad or vice versa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3096	Thank you. The distinguished representative Dario Hrebak will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3097	Dear fellow Batinic, I don't think we understand each other. I support what you have said, but you must also understand your work in your own city, but you must also understand that not all cities and not all cities function as yours does, and praises for the work itself, the formation of the city itself and the functioning of the city. So I'm aware and I'm not saying that if the State Audit found certain devastating data that the system obviously doesn't work, that it automatically means that there are frauds. But you know what they say? Where there's smoke and fire. I just want to, and in my report, I wanted to appeal, precisely to the fact that we need mayors and mayors who are the most responsible persons in the field of local self-government units to take advantage of their authority and influence that this is exactly the kind of negative state audits and guidelines that the State's audit has instructed companies to respect themselves, not to remain just a dead letter on paper. So, this is basically what you reminded me of, you said yourself the mayors are also members of the congregation of these societies, but also city council members if we're going to do so. So city councils and current coalitions that make up the position at local levels. And I also remembered after the report that it was basically small money, because when we look at how much the decentralised funds are at local self-government, how little they actually come from the state level. It's actually quite a relatively small amount of money, but we have to start with small things. Apparently, in this country certain parts of the system don't work. It's also an indicator of this national audit report. But we also have to start from the fact that we're trying to do something to make it crack like this in 2016, '17 and '18 come true. Therefore, I have appealed to mayors and mayors to further make an additional effort and to use their influence to implement these cracks and become an integral part of the normal functioning of companies owned by a local self-government unit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3098	Thank you very much. Now we have more replicas at the presentation of the esteemed Milivove Spica. The first one is the respected representative of Ivica Misic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3099	Dear President, dear colleague Spika. I'd like to look back on your exposure, because I'm coming from the local community and I'm following things how they're done, and I can see that a lot of local communities aren't right. It is particularly surprising that we are now discussing 2014 and I do not know when the 2015 review will take place, whether it will go to local communities and local businesses as well as private companies, private businesses and craftsmen. Which I think would be fine if we were already discussing 2015 this year. Because if people, we see, made some mistakes of 106 companies 84 were something questionable, 15 did nothing good. I think it should have been decided last year that these people might be working and working and not doing well. I personally know and we know a lot of us living somewhere in the local community that there's a lot of crime, there's a lot of problems, people leaving and getting severances in state companies, and then they get re-employed in a state company, so I don't think that's really right. Personally, when the rule of law comes, when these people who cause problems will be sanctioned. We see today that it's just us as far as I see it now, we're discussing it, of course we'll definitely give you a positive assessment for the report and I see everyone giving it and I believe that you've done it right. I'm just asking when the rule of law will start to be the same for everyone. And to solve that part of the problem, as far as I see these parliamentary deputies, they don't care much and this is a very big problem, local administrations and self-government are a very big problem for the state, money is being spent. Not to mention the vehicles driven by individuals in cities spend our money on Saturdays and Sundays and evenings. And I think we should take it seriously here and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3100	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Milivo Spik will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3101	Thank you very much, dear colleague. So here's to make no mistake, just because we support this report doesn't mean that we support these, those that are covered in a negative context in the report, that now it wouldn't happen to the public or they're interpreting it as if we don't support them. No, I don't. But we expect the next revision to answer the question of what happened to these people if it's about the same people. Because I'm saying, we have a lot of examples from these units of local self-government where it really is, it's a mild expression of harrass, but there's a lot of things going on. I also say that from personal experience. And I'll tell you, once I left town, I left one company for reasons I didn't want to participate in some of the actions described here in this report. Which is the worst of many of these reports that have been dealt with so well in their environments that neither criminal charges nor reports to competent authorities or institutions give any results in terms of correcting their behaviour, let alone sanctioning but can certainly be fatal to those who have tried to prevent such behaviour. So I'm saying, this isn't about whether we know or not, here's the review she said in 80 and some cases we have some mistakes. We're not saying if they're big, small, they're the way they are. But I'm also saying that thing stops, but the thing is here is whether we're going to try to create an amendment to the legal regulations that we're going to sanction in such a way that it's demotive for these. We all know for ourselves how many of you have an institution, a company, where your family drives official vehicles from an institution or a company and that people who work in these official vehicles can't get to that official vehicle have to use their own to keep their jobs. We have a series of examples like that. And if there's ever a match with the team, I'll be happy to be part of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3102	Thank you very much. And your presentation was attended by distinguished representative Milorad Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3103	Thank you, Mr. President. Namely, fellow Spika, in order to avoid any misunderstanding, I absolutely support this report and what the review in its focus has found both time and opportunity to make this kind of revision. But I'm replicating it in a way that I can try you through a reply to the replica to get some clarification. I mean, I have a dilemma. Most of the funds disappear in JLS, and I call on Minister Maric to look for savings. Well, now I don't understand, now I don't understand. This is a revision of the utility companies, and now you've brought local self-government units into this context. I believe you know how much of the total waste budget per unit of local self-government. You know that there have been some redundancies of employees, i.e. the citizens of the Republic of Croatia with income tax and a significant reduction of income from local self-government units, so I don't understand where you see either your coalition that Minister Maric through the budget or through savings to the budget could raise funds, or take, or as already to the units of local self-government. I also disagree with the fact that in general, there is nothing wrong with being in the environments, municipalities, cities, counties, utility companies. Here I would like to join my colleague Mrak Taritash, who said, or practically through Gauss' curve, how positive, how negative, and that will always be. And it's not good to generalize. You mentioned here both private and vehicles official on weekends etc. In fact, all of this is prescribed by the statutes or rules of procedure or protocols through public companies. So let's not take this one good report down on him hunting witches, that certainly isn't right.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3104	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Milivo Spik will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3105	Dear colleague, my exposure wasn't directed to any individual, so I don't see why you're getting so excited. It's kind of like you're defending yourself from something I said. You don't have any need for that, because it's not about generalization. I said that there are a lot of people who do their job with honor, and they're very much protecting the interests of local self-government units and taking care of it, and on the other hand, we have a nice number of those that we can call local sheriffs, who literally in their midst do what they want. And that's a fact and I can prove it. Another thing, about these savings and the mention of Minister Maric, don't take it literally. Because the budget of the local self-government unit, of course we can't, but I'm talking about the relationship when we say it's bad in Croatia, so the financial situation is bad. It's bad in the state budgets, it's bad for local self-government units, and I say it's picturesque. So you could've easily connected it. If in the units of local self-government we can find room for savings, or where those funds disappear, then the little adulation was mild and how this can be mirrored to this national level as well. And as for these regulations, various Rules of Procedures on the use of these funds are the most common vehicles. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Most often it's so beautifully written that twenty-four and three hundred sixty-five, and then it's known that the police stop the official vehicle on Sundays or Saturdays, asking who you are. But his dad or mom has 365, so... It happens often. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Either someone who doesn't have anything to do with it or the vans are on the ski resorts of the company if they have eight plus one. That's a lot of times. It's not much of a damage. I'm not saying it's some enormous number now. But there's one interesting thing. The flood occurs so that the rain begins to rain. How does it start to rain? One drop at a time, that's what matters.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3106	Thank you. The next line has a distinguished representative Tomislav Koncevski.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3107	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I don't think I can just believe what's going on here. Mr. Spica, you've already made some claims. Well, I hope you've done some things. You said you knew about malfeasance, and you certainly knew about malfeasance. Well, I hope you reported it to the D.O.R.H., that you reported it to the police. Because if you do, then you should be reported if you didn't report it. I don't think I can believe what I'm hearing. But I hope you've reported it so you know what you're saying, because if someone's talking about some malfeasance and someone's pointing to some kind of problem, they have to have some evidence and they have to go out with it, not talk nonsense. I know about this, I know about it, and it hasn't been reported. I hope you deny me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3108	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Milivo Spik will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3109	Dear colleague, it's no nonsense at all. In fact, the only one who got hurt was me. You know why? Because the one I reported was too strong to report, and the arguments that were an integral part of the application were indisputable. Because if I, as a person who worked on certain jobs, participate in the procurement process and in relation to the current prices I achieve in half the less. And then I get disfellowshipped from that follow-up, put on ice until work break-up, then you know what a person goes through in two years. You know, when they take your official cell phone, they take your official vehicle, you can't communicate with your employees, your Internet goes off. You're nobody and nothing there. And what happens to those who participate in these affairs? Nothing, they keep working on it. And you know why? They got a good background, yeah. Because some things can't be done in Croatia if no one protects you, they can't. Because if that midwife is sanctioned on a salary for three cabbage heads, then there can be a bandit who's going to manut 10, 20, 30 million kuna, and that's not happening. And why isn't that happening? You think it's the audit? No, I don't. People did their job right. And who's to blame? We do. And when we start talking about these problems in a way that we're guilty or co-founders, then we start to solve it. So, first step in solving the problem of us admitting it. Yeah, we got a problem and that's our problem. That's not the problem with some x, y, our problem. And I just through a personal example, this isn't the only example, I can help you find the best solution and there are. They're simple, they just need political will.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3110	Thank you. The next replica will be the esteemed representative of Joseph Lek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3111	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Comrade Spick, you led me to the line for two reasons. One is positive, positive because you have studied this report very critically and it is directed to the ruling ones. Behind this comes moves, measures, corrections. The second is negative because you said the state audit couldn't reveal everything. Well, of course, it's not her job to reveal everything more than possible in accordance with the standards they follow whether something is illegal or not. And you, as an agent, claim here that there are a lot of illegal things that don't fall under review. It's already dangerous. It is already dangerous to say from a constituency that in local self-government, administrations or cities and municipalities there is a lot of illegality and that the rule of law does not work. There is a discretion, international organisations commend several of our local self-governments, including the town of Ivanec, Jastrebarsko, and let's say Metkovic was a desirable example for several years. We haven't heard that they praise us at the state level, no matter who was in power. It is also one of the disrepansions that must be seen and changed by the ruling. If the rule of law doesn't work, and the representative knows about illegality, and who has more authority than the representatives of citizens in this body? And you can't complain about the SDP or the last government now, so it's not just about the pronunciation, it's about the activities. So, I'd like to see that on the next State Audit report we have no objections about the State Audit, that's good, but we have knowledge and we haven't launched anything. And nothing! So all we can do here is do it through the bill's action, measures, etc. All this other stuff we're saying sounds nice, attractive, but it's no use. This even has a bad effect on Croatia's picture, whether it's local self-government or state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3112	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Milivo Spik will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3113	You're an esteemed colleague who answers, in fact you're replicating, and you get the impression that you're not a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, as if it's happening somewhere else, as if you have absolutely no information. And somehow I feel like you have a lot more information about all this than I do and a lot of colleagues around here. To whom is the criticism now addressed, to whom am I speaking, ruling or unruly? So who was the government until yesterday? We've just arrived, the parliamentary majority has only been here a little more than a month. So it doesn't matter at all when I talk about this who the position is, who the opposition is if we're all honest here in that intention that we want a better Republic of Croatia. And if we all took that oath we took here as such and honestly, then nothing is more or less my problem than your problem. So, this is what I'm talking about. In Croatia, there are only two, three units of local self-government, several hundred of them. And again, let's not turn what I said and twist it in a way that I call it all. No, I said that the vast majority refers to social property properly but there are also those who don't do it and that the vast majority of us here know or don't know, doubt or doubt, has evidence or no evidence but we can't say we're blind or we're deaf or we're stupid so we don't see what's going on in the crowds of local self-government units. And you can see for yourself that you have a series of people who are very exposed when they're publicly called, and then it's nothing. Finally, the State Audit shall also forward each report to the competent authority. Whether they move on or not, it's not the State Audit business. It's the job of whoever it is. And that's why it happens that someone after these audits is sanctioned very quickly and someone doesn't touch. And we know why.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3114	Thank you. And the last replica is the respected representative of Andrija Mikulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3115	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's a fellow Spica. I'm a little in the middle of a dilemma right now after these questions to you. I realized that you're not generalizing but to say that there are certain cases, so please, if you're going to answer to tell me if I understood you correctly. Secondly, when we talk about the State Audit Office, I think it's too much to say that people do good and quality work. Well, I guess we figured that out on the reports they're giving us. What I'm trying to say to you is this question and give credit to your courage to determine some facts. Is it sure it wasn't easy to get somewhere and find something? I think we understand each other very well what we're talking about. I don't want to go back a year, two, three, four back, but it's safe and perhaps the question is whether you've always had the opportunity to act completely on your own. In the system I was in, we had a representative of your office who was conducting an audit. I can tell from my example that these are people who are professional, who know their job, who asked for simple communication first to get to know what's going on and then recorded and eventually made some conclusions. What worries me more is that we will probably need to start talking about your powers at some point. Why? You're finding something out, you're saying we have knowledge, and then unfortunately you don't have a measure that we're going to be seeing for a while whether or not it's been spent or not considering the facts. So when I say that, then I think you should have more power in a certain sense. When you go into certain controls, then of course people have to have some courage to achieve something. Therefore, I advocate absolutely as much as I do boredom, and I commend you on the report on transparency and fact-finding. And this other part of us will probably one day like this High House talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3116	Thank you. Now we're going to cross over to the next club of representatives and that's the HSS club, the HDS and will speak to the distinguished representative Goran Dodig. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3117	President of the Croatian Parliament, his associates, respected rapporteurs and colleagues and fellow MPs. It's been said a lot of times here today that we should do something. My first proposal would be to cut the exposure time of 30 minutes from this pay phone, because often they just read reports that we all read. It's one of the suggestions we can think about, but does it really make sense for someone to read what we've already read? If we haven't read it, then we can't even talk about all this. Secondly, it is evident that everyone here who has debated the MPs has supported this report. So we'll support it on behalf of the club. But it is also certain that almost all of them are explicit and some of the implications have made it clear that something should be done. And in order to do something first, we need to define the concepts of what we think about it, what it is, a fraud. I'm, I don't know what a scam is, but I know it's negative, at least that's perception. I don't know if these are these, whether it's a fraud being treated like a felony, a felony or just an ethical failure or an ethical one, or just an ethical dimension. Probably one and the other and the other. And what's interesting is you here make recommendations on what to do to prevent recommendations. And that's good. But it seems to me that in this absence of the activities of the institutions that might, which are in charge of persecuting that part of the fraud or the fraud that has attributes to the crime, that this is the problem. We don't talk about it. How is it that if it is delivered to competent institutions that are obliged to prosecute such individuals or if you want certain companies, then how do they not react? The recommendations are good for you and I understand them in that context. But until we solve this part that follows and if it remains only on the recommendation and the recommendation in the Croatian state obviously that something good is done does not mean anything. In this, look at the important topic we are talking about, this is a topic that talks about the arrangement of the Croatian state at local level, O.K., but about the arrangement of the Croatian state. We have heard dozens, dozens of times in recent months that the Croatian state is now a state and that it works well. But apparently, she has a terrible lot of holes. Are we going to allow in Parliament because of certain procedural frameworks in which we act to remain only at the level of a parliamentary discussion that does not oblige anyone, or are we really going to change certain laws? It is certain that there are people on local self-government and cities and municipalities who work honestly and honestly, I have no doubt about it. And he said, well, Blaženko Boban, that it should then be among these 80s that work to prove that they are also good but that they are missing some sort of little thing or how much they lack to say, so here's what can be solved through the Institute of Recommendations in a year or two days. But there are also those who have committed crimes in this and that's where we stop. The same way they treat each other, but that part is my people's government's fault. The government is also responsible for the government's institutions. That's what this is about. And we are taking part in this in a way that we support it or by putting it into a particular political side which is very bad because it is a general problem that is equally important for those who are not in the ruling majority and for those who are in the ruling majority. And now among these recommendations, I'm sorry what, I said it's a lot of 30 minutes and I think it's really a lot, amongst the recommendations... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Or 15. It's still 15 anyway. All the reports are good on behalf of the clubs, all the reports are fine, I support them. From fellow Boban as the first, so colleagues I think Tomic was, he gave great examples, Anke Mrak Taritash, to counterpart Ambrusec and so on. There's no doubt that it was all of a quality, but we should concentrate really on the essence of the problem. We also have anonymous tips among the recommendations. You know now, many who have hair on their heads will get their hair on their heads when I say it's a very difficult story. With anonymous tips you can, you can block the system. If someone doesn't have the courage to say this and that one did it and behind that we stop it all, that man has arguments than we go to the story that someone can make 200 anonymous applications. Then what? He doesn't have the guts to say I'm behind it. A fellow Spica has one negative experience but that's no reason to go to the story of anonymous reports now, you know. I constantly advocate the thesis that a man must stat, especially a parliamentary representative, a member of the government, a statue behind his words, and not anonymously muddle someone without saying what can happen in this possibility that on his pages, portals and so on he writes whoever he wants and has no responsibility for it. It's terrible things, it's killing freedom, and it's not freedom. You know, somebody can write about you now whatever they want, peel you off in the worst possible way and there's nothing you can do about it. Are we gonna talk about this? About sacred cows that can't be touched? One more thing. Someone has already said to me this fellow Batinic, it is true that local self-government but this Assembly can also bring acts to protect itself from any persecution, it is a matter of content of these acts, you know. If one unit of local self-government can change the statutes as it pleases, and often they can and are covered legally, so they will change the conditions for some kind of directorial place, so they will change the professional arrangement to catch their own man. And here I am looking at my colleague Varga here, so I have an association I didn't mean. You know very well about health problems, and I think you've really set things up and done well. But this story of paper coverage stories, we've been telling in hospitals lately we should learn to write well, but that doesn't mean we've done them well. Well, then if we're a good invoicer and we write a code that carries more money, then we're a success. There were also those bright examples that really worked very well, but why we did it. Because we saw it was the only indicator of our success, and that's not the case. Content often suffers from this prejudiciality that people usually do, regulate it in a way that they are well-educated in information, but do not know the content. I'm not saying this as a criticism. I've told you that some of the things you've done are good, and I thank you for that. But there are things that we must openly say that they are not always good. It's not too crazy, it's too crazy to cover it paper doesn't always mean that you're going to achieve the goal you want. And now we're coming back to our legislative framework. We get to this Parliament, we get to the government, we get to the relationship, we regulate the relationship between the central institutions of government and local self-government, you know. Under the story that local self-government can be absolutely free to make decisions that are in practice, we come into a paradoxical situation to pay off being more head of a small municipality with honorable, honorable people who are not, but there are such cases, the head of a small municipality and that he has a greater social reputation there than a parliamentary representative. And that's something we really need to change. If we don't change that, then I assure you that in this consistency of relationships, the relationship of the media to this house we don't stand a chance if we don't do something. I'll just give you an example. The other day, you had an example of property cards, so first it was a contribution to a woman who has 2,500 kunas of pay who wears tomatoes on her head and says that she has a hard life and president of the government who has so much property and so much. And it's a picture, it's a picture of a relationship with the Prime Minister. If we're going to accept the fact that we're responsible for everything here, then we really don't have anything to do with how it presents us. We have to have the integrity of political and human to say, is a parliamentary representative deserves so much and not to raise poor, naive, populist passions. This does not say that we must not be responsible for what this woman is doing for 2,000 kuna salaries, not at all, we must do everything to make her live, live decently, to have safe health care, to have safe legal protection and to be respected as a human. But getting into these stories that we don't know anything, and actually by our behavior, we're talking about it. Look, this is a story that applies to all of us. See how many of us are in the assembly room? With all due respect to everyone. I don't know if I'm gonna sit here behind this. For what? We're not gonna do anything, we're not gonna do anything because we're not ready to accept the fact that there are problems that are of common interest, not party interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3118	Thank you. There is one replica to your presentation, she of the distinguished representative Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3119	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, you stated in your presentation that we have read all these materials, that we welcome the findings of the review and that we all have certain objections to what to do. You said you should not read the reports for the speaker, and here I think it makes sense to read, so I will be free to read seven companies that have received unconditional opinion, which are: Ceste Sibenik, Cleanness of Zadar, Komunalac Koprivnica, Komunalije Ilok, Komunalna Zabok, Lowgradnja Pregrada, County Roads of Zagreb County d.o.o. Lower Zelena. I read for reasons to congratulate them and to invite the remaining 99 companies that were the subject of the findings to follow a positive example to see how they have succeeded in these frameworks when we all claim that we are too much, that legislation is too much to change, that this cannot be monitored, that these companies and under such circumstances have managed to comply with the legal framework in their business and to follow the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia. Of course I would have liked to, which I pointed out last time about reports like this, that we had also received a review of previous reports. I believe these companies were subject to audit findings in previous periods. Let's see if there are any who are repeating mistakes, whether they have accepted the guidance of the revision and what happened to those who are not. This is what we can do, publicly talk about problems, highlight positive examples and make mistakes. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3120	Thank you. The honourable representative Goran Dodig will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3121	Is there a sound? So I accept this. It's a good thing you pointed out these seven that are good. The right people should be commended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3122	Thank you. We would now move to an individual debate and the first individual debate was presented by the distinguished representative Maro Kristic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3123	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, the respected representatives of the Office of State Audit, I welcome you all very much and I would like to say about this report that, like all your reports, the very quality of this report has been made up. However, it has shown that in fact no system of prevention and detection of fraud in commercial societies owned by units of local and regional self-government cannot be effective and effective with existing legislation. As long as the mayors represent chambers of companies and have the exclusive authority to appoint a director until then, the business of companies owned by local self-government units will be non-transparent, the companies will be El Dorado for the employment of party arrests, and the management of them will be left to the incompetent directors who move from a company to a company depending on party obedience, or depending on any family ties with mayors, mayors or mayors. I absolutely agree with colleagues of predecessors is a large number of mayors, mayors and here amongst us in the Croatian Assembly who honor their duties, a large number of them are also outside this Croatian Assembly, but the finding is actually quite the opposite. As a consequence of this legislation, we have a decline in the quality of public services in local communities, i.e. the disproportionateness between the quality of the service provided and the money that the community invests and allocates for such services. For example, here I am going to be direct, so let's say we in Dubrovnik at our company Vodavod have a situation where the mayor's relatives have managed for years, and recently the HNS's director, who is an expert on everything. It is a man who has been the director of several trading companies owned by the city of Dubrovnik. For years, let us say that they have failedly been trying to solve the problem of water blackouts at the OMBLA source in the Dubrovnik river supplying all of Dubrovnik's drinking water. That's why citizens, when it's any bigger rain, actually have to go to shops and buy water. So, it's just an eclectic example and the situation is very similar in many of our trading societies owned by the city of Dubrovnik. In fact, the move on us, the parliamentary deputies, is to prepare an adequate legislative regulation and to adopt it, which will give priority to professional people compared to party listeners. And then the findings that you bring will actually be full of unconditional opinions, and society will move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3124	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first one is the distinguished representative of Blaženko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3125	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Representative Maro, you said in your report that the mayors, the head of the company assembly, are the mayors. Yeah, but only if they own a 100% local community. And those are very few. Believe me, a lot of companies, companies and utility companies are uniquely tied to only one local community. Example: Transport Split, the town of Split owns 65%. In these 65% other 35%, the other 14 local communities are co-owners. The city of Split, due to a problem since 1990, that we have not been paying with the already lost legal procedure, will not accept a settlement of 30 million kuna and now comes to an end at 41 million kuna. Who's responsible for that 11 million kuna? Are these 14 mayors and mayors who are co-owners of the company? Are they the local sheriffs we talk about here all the time? Come on, please! So it is not true that the mayors and mayors in the congregations and in companies where they are mostly not owned by 100% of their local community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3126	Thank you. The esteemed representative Maro Kristic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3127	I agree with you, Your Honor, it's just a matter of how unadjusted our legal regulation is, in fact, absolutely unsuitable to one normal way of working. However, I have specifically referred to one mayor and one company that is 100% owned and mentioned specific things, i.e. violations of law and incompetence, or incompetence of such people. Such cases, unfortunately, are many, and I have appealed to bring a legal framework that will make it easier for you as mayors and mayors to share these powers that are really very large in some way with the profession and to finally get professional people who will manage companies for the benefit of the community.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3128	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Šipic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3129	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to take a quick word for it if I could replicate it. I'm sure we all agree with one part together. However, it should be said that the mayors and the chiefs of the law are determined by what we have already heard here and appointed so as to represent, to be representatives, legal representatives owned in part. My colleague Boban says 100%, I would disagree that it has to be 100%. Here's our example in the Cetina region where local self-government is partly co-owned. However, we are legally representatives within these companies. However, the mayor and mayor may also appoint a specific person to represent a city or municipality in the local, therefore in the company. I would also say that every company owned by a local unit is mandatory every year and in our examples we know to report to the representative body. So representative bodies as well as audits have the right to and see what happens in certain companies where we are owners or co-owners. So for every commendation, it's a review, but I guess it also develops a picture that's been going on for a while now about some local sheriffs who certainly bend pictures of those people and those mayors and mayors who are consciously and responsibly doing their job, and there's always a majority of them. It is necessary to create an image and create a picture that positive examples should be and highlight more and more, not negative examples, because in this way we get involved in a network that is not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3130	Thank you. Dear Representative Maro Kristic will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3131	I agree with you that always, especially us parliamentary deputies, every debate should be approached in an affirmative way, however, it should also be pointed out irregularities especially when we are able to speak with the position of the parliamentary representative. And we need all of us together to participate as little as possible in the groundless debates and as much as possible when it comes to such important things that can achieve significant savings and sit down and bring consensus to such a legislative framework as I talked about earlier.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3132	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the distinguished representative of Angel Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3133	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. As far as this report is concerned, I can say that it is quality, concrete and supportive. That's the day we heard a lot of debates about how it couldn't have been done. However, I have an example of where, right in the county congregations, city and municipal councils, council members have been discussing and asking for certain questions that the state's audit is being carried out, supervised. But the state review didn't want that. I will specifically tell you last year the HDZ Council Club of the County Assembly of the Varazdin County asked for an audit of the county company Gare, the daughter of Gare secundus. In fact, in 24.10.2007, Gara purchased 76,000 one bank. The mayor claims that they were bought 140 kunas and were on the stock market at the time. worth 479 kuna and 55 limes. The Council Club is looking for answers that are of interest to the county as a public service for citizens to set up a company without any employees. What is the role and what are these companies for? Why has no county assembly been notified of the purchase of shares of the bank in 2007 and according to the statutes? If Gara bought shares on August 24, 2007 why would her daughter Gara secundus buy those shares from her? What is the cost of calling the transfer of the shares of the payment after the closure of the interest loan and the like? Who had any option under that contract? Who had the option to buy those same shares and at what price, etc.? The State Audit reply was, the State Audit Office does not carry out an audit according to the performances and requests of natural and legal persons. Signed by Branko Kristic. So from the local level someone warns that there's a possibility that something should be checked, the state's audit refuses it. Furthermore, the town of Varazdin, at the entrance to the city of Varazdin, we have a bunch of Varazdin's bales of garbage. No state institution is doing anything about it. The former environment minister claims he's right, the mayor says he's right. These bales stand, garbage stands, environment, soil, water, air is polluted, human health is poisoned, from below is an archaeological site. And from the state institutions, not even the state audit, the DORH, the inspections, no one's doing anything. Is it possible for a state audit to make one performance review to finally see who's in charge, whether the former minister or mayor, and that the problem begins to be solved? For three years, the Varazdins have suffered because of that garbage. Furthermore, last year, the 3rd month, you could read that Varazdin runs the bankruptcy coalition. Varazdin, one rich city due to the unconscious business of the city's public institution, has reached almost a blockade of accounts, as the city as the founder of the facility is responsible for all debts of the institution. It's a debt to the banks, according to APN, but that's why certain apartments, buildings were paid. situated to the third floor, and there are only built foundations. That's what's being discussed, the papers are writing, we're asking the state institutions and nobody's asking anything. So is there a possibility of reviewing the city's public housing facility? Is there a possibility of reviewing the business of Termoplina d.d. Varazdin? Apparently, he has some debts to the state budget. Is there a possibility of reviewing the City Pools of Varazdin? 31 jobs systematically, employed 33 and not counting any further. So the President's question is whether there is any possibility of us giving the recommendation to review Barkoma d.d.'s business. Varazdin, public institutions City dwellings, Termoplin d.d. Varazdin, the City Pools of Varazdin and the gentlemen of the State Audit whether you'll replace your head of review in Varazdin because he knew it all, and he didn't do anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3134	Here will be answered by the esteemed chief state auditor, Mr Ivan Klesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3135	Dear Representative Angelko Strick, here I will answer you very briefly, and I think after that you will all be clear. 226 authorised state auditors work at the State Audit Office of the Republic of Croatia, and the State Audit is responsible for up to 14000 entities. So, according to what you just said, the State Audit Office is not working on anyone's demands. All possible demands we register, and when we go to review, of course, we audit them. As regards the independence of the State Audit, this is Article 54. A constitution which therefore guarantees our independence. We're working on our annual plan. Even the Croatian Parliament can request certain audits from the State Audit Office, however, the law rightly states that the Chief State Auditor decides whether or not we will do so. So we're not working on anyone's demands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3136	Here's a replica to be given by the esteemed representative of Angelko Striker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3137	I said in the debate that I support your work and that it's okay, but I find it interesting that everything that the public is interested in, what gets headlines in the paper is when it comes to Varazdin you go around. Or if you want in 2015, I'll repeat the debate how interesting your plan is, you've done 46% revisions of HDZ-led municipalities, 17% of HSS, 9% independent, 5% IDS, 4% HNS, 4% SDP, 4% SDSS, 3% HSP, 1% HDSSB, 1% HSLS, 1% HSP, Ante Starcevic. Or in 2015, you carried out only 15% of the audits related to municipalities and cities led by officials from the then Kukuriku coalition. 85% were officials, mayors, chiefs of the opposition. So these plans of yours are really interesting.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3138	The reply to the replica, please welcome the Honorable Chief State Auditor.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3139	Reverend Uncle, another of the most important things in this whole story. Never does the State Audit Office see if anyone belongs to a political option, to a political party or not. Once again, we have our annual plan that we are working on based on our methodology of work and all of these possible knowledge that we have and possibly according to the results of the ex-audits carried out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3140	Thank you. Now we're going to move on to the next individual debate, which is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3141	Dear promoters, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, here we are again discussing the revision in this case of the prevention and detection of fraud in companies owned by units of local and regional self-government. We see that the revision among other things has established some facts and made some suggestions on what should be done, which we have heard in the debates so far. But when we look at what's been found out from the audit ourselves, then we're not talking about local sheriffs being mentioned here about all the people, but about the phenomena that happen and cost, that is. They're too expensive for both local self-government and regional and society as a whole. So let's look here means goals. So the goal here is to establish policies and control procedures so that fraud does not occur essentially in the very societies that have been happening so far. So when we look at what's been determined, and we can all see it in the report, then we see that the real and legal framework and the sanctions themselves or those who are obliged to pursue irregularities, and the irregularities are determined by this audit finding because they're as professionally and professionally as they could have been, according to their capabilities, audits have done so, which means that this audit finding ultimately shows all the irregularities that are happening, which are too expensive, and in fact there are no control mechanisms. I mentioned cars earlier, vehicles in these companies owned by local units. Now look at what that number is, and let's say how much these vehicles are used from Friday to Monday at 8 o'clock for private purposes or after hours, and that audit report says there's no control, there's no control at all. I mean, it's not the invention of local sheriffs, it's the ones with the vehicles that are our vehicles, driving all over Croatia or their children in kindergarten, or maybe I don't know where. That's the facts. But these are facts from the audit report. So, the legislation must be adapted on Friday to be the mayor, the mayor, or I don't know who, the director of some company, the firm to leave that key in the locker and drive with its vehicle and not to the detriment of local self-government and citizens. And then to speak, we're not local sheriffs. Not all, however, have terrible quality people at local level, both in companies and in the capital cities and municipalities and of course county. But there's so much in this society that we look at this level, it's leaking through our fingers that it's billions. The deficit only with this in local self-government, companies owned by local self-government that only this is in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia to control I think the deficit would be to not have it at all. There are so many amounts, and every day we talk about revisions from 2014, 2013. Since I am in a new congregation and for the first time a parliamentary representative is ultimately without a firm framework law and control mechanisms because the finding tells us that under an urgent legal framework must be changed and that it is known precisely for each of these which is stated in the audit findings to know what, when and who controls it. As a matter of fact, people have been audited, so the state paid them, people have done their job professionally, we will discuss neither sanctions nor responsibilities. And yet, under the supposed signs I speak, certain not all local sheriffs do what they want and what they can. Or who controls them, both in counties, cities, municipalities and companies. Is it pointless to talk about this if we don't change any legal frameworks? And surely over the past few years, I haven't been to the Parliament, talked the same way, and it must have been a similar finding. I don't know if Mr. Auditor could confirm that there were similar findings and what had been done by the State's Attorney's Office, did anyone do anything at all about the possible frauds you've identified mean based on facts? So in the future, the next time it's yours, it's for 2015, right, but in the coming periods, we have to change the law, and these representatives who have committed violations have to come to the Parliament and talk about what they've done, answer our questions. So we don't have to, like a colleague Boban said earlier, name some people. Well, we didn't call, and here in the audit it's been found that there are these local sheriffs, we don't call anyone. So they would be obliged to come here as well as to all the findings of the audits in other cases as well in this. There, thank you very much. Commendation means the very finding of the revision, and I hope that you will continue to do your job, and that the legislative and executive powers will be that these so far have not done either on the one hand or on the other, that these will do so in this next term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3142	Thank you very much. Your discussion caused two replicas. The first one is the Blessed Bobana, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3143	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Representative Bulj, I absolutely agree in this debate about changing the legal framework in a series of segments of the activities of municipal companies and companies based on local administration. That's where I agree with you. I also agree with you that there are a number of irregularities, but I won't call them local sheriffs. But if there are a number of irregularities, is there not knowing any legal procedures or intentions that it is not up to us to decide but certain bodies of the Republic of Croatia, but I cannot agree with you and responsibly argue, and here there are more colleagues that the mayors, mayors and good mayors have no conscience, I am talking about conscious people, have a lot of obligations and Saturdays and Sundays. So mayors and commissioners believe me on Saturdays and Sundays have a lot to do. If it is not necessary to keep records of this, I agree absolutely, it is necessary to keep records and properly fill out those travel orders in personal or official vehicles. But the conscious mayor and the mayor repeat once again so much activity has on Saturdays and Sundays, and all of them were directly elected to the local elections at the disposal of their fellow citizens 24 hours a week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3144	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Miro Bulj will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3145	I'd like to agree with you fellow Boban that the mayors, the mayors, have duties and weekends. But the report showed that it wasn't recorded, not with everyone, but that it was a weekend commitment. Not only is the mayor and the chief and directors of public companies owned by local self-government not only those who have vehicles, which operate vehicles. So now we're not just caught up with them being local sheriffs, but they're under the supposed signs, not all of them. But we have an example going to a pre-election set of his political options with the official vehicle of the city. Who's going to refund the city? I'm telling you an example, one of the examples. And so during the campaign there are one day thousands of examples of how in public vehicle companies, this is just an example of a vehicle, we're not going to go into any further audit findings. So I'm talking about control. A man, of course, if he has to go on Sundays then he has to be controlled somewhere, do his job on Saturdays and Sundays, but they can't have all the vehicles involved because it shows the finding, I'm not saying it now that we're making it up, but people have done their job and they said there's no control and there's no use of vehicles and property to whom it comes to, public property. Here's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3146	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Andrija Mikulić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3147	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Bulj, I must say, I agree with a great deal, your discussion. But I'm not into generalizing the story. Well, I think the law has given power to the mayors and the mayors. I agree with my colleague Boban, so these are people who have been elected 24 hours, 7 days, 265 days. So these are people who have their own obligations. I also agree with you in this section, what a pre-election event, which political options with such a car. But you know what the measures are. But we also need to understand that the office has the authority it has. They recorded something, they came up with information, and there's a point. But they also have other institutions that must, if so, respond to such cases. Here I will tell you in the unit of local administration and self-government from which I come, all of you are media familiar, in the city of Zagreb people were responsible for these very works, which they used something and did not have the authority, which did not fulfill the travel orders etc.. So, I think it is and I'm sure the law has told you what powers are to whom. And it just needs to be applied. I don't think it's a good idea to generalize the story in the way of the mayor or the mayor. Well, there's a lot, there's a lot of other people in companies that are potentially doing something they shouldn't. Right? Thus, at this High House, it is up to us to make changes to some legal solutions, perhaps more specifically, to determine some things more precisely. But I always advocate that we have a measure for what is prescribed. And then people, apparently in accordance with the powers of certain things, will consume within the limits they are allowed.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3148	Thank you very much. The Honorable Representative Miro Bulj will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3149	I'd agree if it weren't for the fact that the ficus here is now just for the mayor, the mayor and the mayors, the local and regional self-government leaders. Of course you got one case right, so the case is Zagreb. In such cases, the audit report says there is, whether it was selectively done, the most likely state's attorney's office. So we can do a million of these examples, we have going to various ministers, the capitalist in Dubrovnik for our own needs, later it's proven, flights to planes, flights, so we can, meaning use for private purposes. So that's where we question the selectivity of the state's attorney's office again. It means selectivity, but it's up to us here and to the legal framework. The legal framework has to be clear because I'm not saying what I invented to be a local sheriff, but the find of a state audit is saying where it describes that there are no control mechanisms for the use of public goods or vehicles or I don't know any other property. There's a problem, at least now it's what we're gonna call these people but the fact that the law made it possible for me to behave in a let's just say under the supposed signs "whatever." And that's public good, that's the property of our citizens and it's not protected by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3150	Thank you. We will now move on to the next individual debate, the distinguished representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3151	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Chief State Auditor with his associates. I will direct my debate in a slightly different direction because I believe that this report on the review of efficiency and prevention and detection of fraud among companies owned by local self-government units should provide certain answers to the questions that are heard daily in the Croatian public, which is whether the Croatian state is too expensive. So the first question is whether from these reports discussed on local self-government units on their representative bodies did they look at it all or not. However, it is clear why companies owned by local self-government units are established to provide certain services which are a monopolies character to meet certain needs of the citizens of waste disposal, water supply, draining, greening, etc., etc. Any failure in the management of these companies and any accumulation thereof, any excessive employment ultimately paid by citizens of the Republic of Croatia through, citizens of these units of local self-government through the amount of compensation they give them. Because if these companies are efficient, if they spend their resources meaningfully and efficiently, then the funds raised by citizens do not require the need to increase prices, to provide these services. It also asks a real question, each company has a management, members of the administration, secretaries, accounting, etc., the question is whether... these companies would come to a more meaningful and better functioning. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The second thing, in most cases mayors, mayors, mayors are the presidents of the congregations of these companies, in very few cases they are representative bodies. So they practically make a budget, determine what they will do, and they are the main controller of it because it is the assembly that, at the end of the year, through the review of financial reports, gives or does not resolve the management of the company. We, in principle, have one closed circle and it is that classic conflict of interest, not some conflict of interest of others spoken of in the Republic of Croatia. And if we were to get answers to these questions from these reports, then it would probably be different for local self-government units because we are here critical of some things depending on which political option is set somewhere, we are using the opportunity to attack it and not to discuss towards the ultimate goal of getting local citizens as much as possible, as possible, a better service as possible and that they pay it as little as possible. Here, take the last case of the divisor. Those divisors were forced by local self-government leaders. No one asked themselves whether it would work or not. And why am I saying that? Well, because the supply of heat in many cities is being carried out by companies owned by these units of local self-government. Well, the logical thing is if you go to some technological solution that someone technically has to design a system that gives the result that citizens no longer pay such expensive heating, that a poor and missed policy in the loss of the intense heat that goes from where they are produced, to where they benefit is not paid by citizens, but that someone else has to bear it. Unfortunately, however, you could not see it in the reports of these companies during the review discussions, but now it will be very interesting to see if the people of the ministry who passed the law at the expense of the companies that worked the divisions had certain travels. And now the question arises, what is the function of companies, which is the head of a unit of local self-government that has not, in fact, forced them to talk about how citizens will pay for less heating, which unfortunately turned into a trauma for many where it broke down. Where'd it go? So we have to answer that question because today is the main topic. The other day when we were discussing HERA, I think I was the only one who mentioned it. By the way, some of them got caught up a little later, and among other things, HERA agreed to raise prices for me in Velika Gorica and Zagreb and Samobor and some other cities. She gave consent. So we pass the law and apply this law without checking that application of this law is possible on the ground. But you finally know what the final result is? That our citizens pay for all that. And then we talk about how we have an expensive country, how it's all costing us so much. Whether we should have 101 water supply companies in water supply, or whether it can be understood in more rational forms, but with the ultimate goal of keeping the citizens’ wages as cheap as possible because it is a national treasure. Water is not the wealth of a local self-government unit. Water is the national wealth of us as a state. And it doesn't make sense that some citizen in the Republic of Croatia because he lives somewhere, pays for the cubic water that I know 15 or 16 kuna, and the other is paying him 7 or 8. Let's see how to establish a system to make it as uniform as possible, so let's not make social differences on elemental life things. Because today, if anything is elemental, it's essential that you have drinking water in your house, that you automatically have a drain and that you have... things. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is why municipal companies are being established. So you even have that decision you make when you make the city budget on municipal construction, etc. Therefore, one special document is based on the Law on the municipal economy that can be passed. And now what happens? You give that job to your public company that you started and then you walk around the construction site and you see a bunch of subcontractors there. And then you ask yourself one question? If I had called a public tender, could that local self-government unit have done the job 30, 40 percent cheaper? 'Cause look, if the city's company is gonna let somebody do it, it's got some expenses, it's gonna make some money. This one comes out as some kind of private, does this job, and makes money on it together. So isn't it more logical then to call a public tender let whoever can do that job do that job and make it 30, 40% cheaper and that money is used for something else. Because what makes sense is if you have a city company that has so many employees, it has a mechanism, then the subcontractors are doing that job for you. And so that's one of the questions, in my opinion, one of the most common issues of fraud. Because this car use, etc. It's small, but it needs to be regulated, and it's regulated by the Income Tax Act. So it has to be controlled by the IRS. Because if someone has the right car to use it for 24 hours it's a receipt in the nature to which they have to apply and have to pay income tax. And if someone didn't do it he'd committed a tax offense. He practically made tax evasion, and let the IRS handle it. But the review has to solve this problem. The purpose of the revision is to control the purpose of the functioning of something and the purpose of using the city budget, and here is both. Here these companies are founded to get better quality and cheaper service. On the other hand, most of these services are paid from the city budget and you have a closed circle. In principle, they manage and control control instruments of control determine practically one man. And that's why this State Audit report needs to answer those questions, because they're far more important to me. Well, all you remember is the story of the dump site. We spend, for example, in Zagreb County a complete project, studies, all living and then someone remembers that Zagreb County would still be attached to two counties. And the logical thing is for people in Zagreb County to rebel. And now the whole story stands, the whole project stands. Croatia is likely to pay the fine because it has not satisfied the rhythm and dynamics of the construction of the waste dump as it should have been done. But that's not what we're talking about. Well, that's the point of the story. So, does Croatia need 400, 500, 600 public companies at this time, and then some performers do some work or agree on a system that will provide every unit of local, regional self-government with the cheapest service to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And the logical thing is, if we in Velika Gorica have a huge water supply, we won't pay water as expensive as someone who transports it tens of miles. Well, that's why we're getting something else, so we're paying for expensive heat. Someone was talking about those divisors. But I'm saying he didn't ask some engineering engineer how that divisor works effectively. So it can only function effectively only if the system in which that heat is delivered is placed to function. If you apartment by apartment, the radiator per radiator didn't do anything. So, I'll support the report's findings. He's good, but I think these reports need to read a little bit between the lines and we'd get an answer to whether or not we're expensive states, but unfortunately that expensiveness and our inefficientness are paid by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3152	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. The first one is the distinguished representative of Ivica Music.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3153	Dear President, dear colleague Shucker. The question remains when did you mention to HERA whether HERA works under European laws and whether it works under Croatian laws? As far as I know, he doesn't work by European law and he can do what he does. These divisors that they have installed for citizens who are not adequate, who do not measure energy consumption. A citizen should know how much he spent something, and he doesn't know it. The second thing, I have an experience example, I can say here in front of the Parliament, where I've shut myself out of the city heating system, 95% of the citizens I've been granted. They ask me for strength, they charge me for strength. I asked you to move your radiators, your installations out of my space, say it's not ours. So I'm asking you and now I'm opening up the question of who owns it? I own the space, they don't own the installation and charge for the power. By what law do they do it, Mr. Shucker? The third thing I have to say today is car, use and stuff. The other day I read in the paper some family of Rusak, whether from Koprivnica or somewhere in that part, two old men live like they live in Africa. I'm asking the question of who these people are, they've got welfare around 350 kn. We're a European state, I ask there who runs this town, who runs that environment, do you have anything to help these people? I'd be the first to help these people, and I want us all to turn to that poor girl together and do something in this country that doesn't happen on television, in the paper because it's really terrible to look at. What you said about cars is tiny. They're not tiny, I don't think it's tiny, I think it's... Okay, come on. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I think we need to start saving at every level in the country and come here once and for once that we don't have to keep borrowing and that we don't have to go into the world all the time looking for money so we can live at all and pay the wages and everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3154	Thank you. The esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3155	My colleague and I agree with your part of the replica, but you're asking me a question, and I don't know why me? But now we're in power together, we have a joint economy minister, and I hope we'll be together, and I opened that question when it was a debate on HERA, that together we'll solve these issues. So much for that and for this question, because I've been talking about these divisors for a very long time in this House and the problem. However, when we talk about Croatian legislation, all and one Croatian law must comply with EU directives. Therefore, Croatian laws cannot be contrary to EU directives. The directive gives you frameworks not everything you have to do. So, you orderly with your specifics and things like that you pass a law that you can apply on your own ground. But it cannot, Brussels will not give you a positive opinion if the law is contrary to EU directives. So what HERA is doing, HERA is based on the EU directive as an independent regulatory agency. Someone on HERA transferred something that wasn't Hera's business to take off his responsibility. Because someone else was giving consent to heat. Well, I think we'll put that on an independent regulatory body because in Croatia, usually when something independent is regulatory then we look at it with a lot of reservations. That's how the HERA got pushed. But finally look at the story now about these divisions. But I'm saying very interesting is it going to be whether these people who wrote the law at the expense of these two companies were traveling to watch those divisions? If that was it, then it's pure crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3156	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Darko Paric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3157	Thank you, Mr. President. I must say that I have seen your debate truly positive, very constructive, and I have not called to correct you, but to try to add something else. With most of what you said, I agree more or less, except for things that are not as close to us as divisions and so when we in Split do not deal with these things. What got into my ear is that it's a State Audit job to solve some shortcomings in companies at local level or as you yourself said about whether something like a job should be done by a private company, a city firm, communal or whatever. What I think and think is that it's a job for us here in the Parliament because my personal opinion is that the solution to everything when it comes to public procurement and at the state level and especially the local level is on transparency. That's one total transparency. And total transparency can be achieved online, by opening up data. We have a law on the right to access information, we have a Commissioner for Information but we in the Assembly can pass a law that will say that absolutely everyone and any state and any company must, absolutely, publish on the Internet all contracts, purchases of bagatella, any purchase of any of the ordinary circuits via the car to any contract you want, and that it must be publicly available to any citizen of any kind. Because it's all public money at the end. And that's what we here in the Parliament can bring. And we have institutions that are actually bound by the laws that we're making, and this is the law. So let's actually make one such law in your debate, or let's expand the law that we already have to cover and in this way maybe radically but in any case definitely contributes to the transparency of the system. Because the best instrument that will lead to anyone dealing with public money being able to think fatly about how they deal with this public money is the public, or citizens, and that citizens have all the data. If the citizens have the data, here I'm ending up, believe me, anyone starting with me will think a lot more about spending the same money than if they don't have the data. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3158	Thank you. The esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3159	You know a colleague when things are taken out of context, then there goes the story in the other direction. So when I was talking about that review having to make a decision then I told you about subcontractors. So, you, if you've established and you have a company for something and it has so many employees and it gets some kind of job that's defined by both acts and budgets and those accompanying acts of the budget and then that job that some subcontractor does, then it's illogical. Why can't he already do that job because he didn't say we couldn't do it, so let's call a public tender. So I was talking in that context. And then it's that one, and that's not why we should be making new laws. The law does exist. A highly bureaucratized society is a society that won't do anything. Because you don't need to, now I don't need to tell you how you're gonna get out of your seat. Therefore, but if we do so, we will become a highly bureaucratic society and simply become a brakes in development. But it doesn't make sense if you get a direct contract job just because you own a local self-government unit and then you give that job to a subcontractor to do it. So you as the responsible man who heads this company founded by the local self-government unit or regional government to do a certain job, you should tell me we're not able to do that, in the city so in the utility department or as already as anyone has an organized, choose to call a public tender for this job so let anyone get in touch with who can work. So I was talking in that context. And no, I'll take everything, I won't do anything, and then I'll give it to the subcontractors, then the subcontractor to the subcontractor, and then the logical thing is to impose on you the story that you paid 30, 40% more. But you and I or any of our fellow citizens paid for it because we basically fill that budget. That's why I said in the case of this waste dump we can talk about both water supplies and anything. So municipal companies have gained monopoly status to provide as high quality and as cheap and better service as possible to their citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3160	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished MPs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3161	You see exactly what's true, for example, and the price of water that companies owned units of local self-government, like the plumbing, drains have drastically different prices, for example, you listed water. And that's one big problem in Croatia. However, what I want to particularly apostrophe and that is that it is not always the responsibility of these utility companies, owned by local self-government units, but also the responsibilities of their founders. municipalities and cities. For example, we have and this is seen in part from the revision when it says that it is necessary to regulate the accounting, control and collection of income and to take collection measures especially when the main debtor is the city itself which founded a particular company and which does not pay that company a service. That's why they're bigger citizens. And something else that comes as a bumblebee in a lack of funds, and then their own companies go after those who do good business. That's what we've been looking at for the last 10 years, 10 years, 7, 8 years ago, when then the government has so devastated state-owned companies. So when the funds disappear, they reach into the profits of these companies, and that is all for the sake of the citizens themselves, because these companies are founded precisely and with the aim of meeting the needs of their own citizens in further investment and costing at the end of the service. And on such cases, and not only the irresponsible directors or here when someone was talking dirty about the directors, I don't think that's what it is, regardless of what we are here as parliamentary representatives, units and leaders from all these companies that do good work should be appreciated and not disrespected. We will not gain reputation by humiliating others but by just doing our own work and by pointing out good examples at any level.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3162	Thank you. The esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3163	counterpart Anticevic would have been very convenient to see in the past 4 years how much profits from state-owned enterprises have been paid into the state budget to reduce the need for borrowing. It's not like that. We are also witnessing that for 3.5 years we have been paying 25% of the cost of electricity due to an alleged investment that will happen from HEP and we can talk about gas etc. But when we talk about state-owned enterprises, we're actually talking about local self-government units, and then we're talking about their mono-political status. So they have no competition on the market and have this monopolistic status exclusively to make their service as cheap as possible and as high-quality as possible towards the citizens. That is why these companies are in principle established. And if we do not adhere to these principles and principles, then in principle such utility companies or as we usually call them or commercial companies owned by units of local self-government do not in principle make sense. And you, if you've established a water supply and disposal company, then the logical thing is that this company needs to expand the network if it doesn't exist and that it has to rationally, as rationally as possible, do business to make that cubic water as cheap as possible for citizens when they buy it. Or she drains to be as cheap as possible. And you also need to respect certain legal regulations. However, if you have irrational business and this item of the agenda is preventing fraud or bad business in companies owned by local self-government units, all of this eventually comes to citizens. So they pay the kuna, two or three more cubic waters, so when it's summed up at the end of the year it's not even a small amount and that's it. So this is all about the efficiency of something. Or, in my opinion, the key question is the purpose of starting a company. Consistency. Because purpose basically contains all of this that we're talking about here.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3164	Thank you. The next replica will be the esteemed representative of Radiir Cacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3165	Thank you very much. So what the distinguished fellow Shucker was talking about, we can play here with the details. It's always, details are important, it's true. The devil's in the details. But I think it's much more important to look at the essence. The audit is an institution that is necessary, which has already been functioning for years, I would say even better than the average of the functioning of institutions in Croatia. Not today, so for decades. In that sense, support and what it is doing now and a team doing a job that is very demanding. Of course, the greatest support for each of us regardless of whether something hurts us at times, or whether we find it incorrect or unfair toward the person, according to the party, according to the local self-government unit, whatever. All support for the independence of the institution must be such and no different. So, all these stories you've been more controlled by Stef than by Jura or SDP than by HDZ, anyway. As soon as someone opens the subject that way, it's dangerous. It's a blow to the foundations of democracy. That way we can't talk. That's what I think we all agree on here. And that there's room of course for it to be better and better quality about it there's no dispute. Oh, no? Now, the car, not the car, if you're driving, you don't have to follow, you need to control. A colleague spoke very well of it, there are regulations, laws, some service, sanctions. Okay. But about the essence of the review is an institution that here in this point, no, includes one of the most dangerous, most harmful and long-term if we don't focus on this problem we can't get out of the irrationality of the functioning of this system. The biggest abuses are at local level in companies, hiring without criteria by grandmothers and uncles, by political line. It is absolutely certain that if we were to put into the criteria of European standards we have huge reserves, these are local companies. I'm not talking about state and state we can talk about Yeah, yeah. [[The President's intrusion: You've gone way too far now.]] Okay. So that's one task that's not just an audit task. It is the task of us all here in this House, the task of government, and the revision is one instrument that needs to be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3166	Thank you very much. They will respond to the replica of the esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3167	Thank you very much. Comrade Cacic, I don't think one thing in this House has ever been questioned, and that is whether or not she agrees with the State Audit report, which was one solid support for the independence of the State Audit. I don't think all these years since the State Audit draft, it's ever been a question. I'm saying even if someone didn't get along with it. Otherwise, the function of these independent, regulatory bodies should be precisely that professionally, in accordance with the legal regulations that we bring here. Because through legal regulations, we're directing in which direction is the State Audit. So they, if we pass the law, when they come, whom this law applies just to control whether it follows that law. And so, it's this relationship and symbiosis between the State Audit and the Parliament, and maybe more than once, so I think it's even my personal opinion, and maybe it's a little subjective that maybe sometimes from the State Audit findings we don't notice enough that it's necessary to change certain legal regulations. And that's why some things might happen again. Perhaps sometimes only one detail needs to change the provisions and it is good that today we went broadly to debate companies owned by units of local self-government, because it is all in the context of an expensive state, all in this context. And I don't need you here if you've promoted the State Audit report a little bit, you don't need to change a lot of laws here. Only here do certain institutions need to tear up some segments and go to another control and as far as the IRS and some other institutions are concerned. But I repeat, I guess the only thing that hasn't come into question all these years in this House, and who we haven't had a political fight over, is the find of the State Audit. So I'm saying, there were a lot of situations that we didn't like. But that independence is something we simply have to keep, and also if we notice certain things with the amendment of the legal proposal, we try to improve these things. It's the only way we can make something better. If we don't do it, if we're arguing here, we're arguing, just one more sentence please, we won't benefit from it unless we change the law that's bad and that's led to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3168	Thank you. We are going to the next individual debate, and it will be the distinguished representative of Davor Penic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3169	I thank the President of the Parliament. We've opened up various areas that aren't covered by this audit. I'm going to try to concentrate on the review, but I'm going to say the same thing that this audit reveals and what we didn't talk about today. This revision covers 106 companies. We said that the vast majority of them didn't get a passing grade, so 84%. From my county of Dubrovnik-Neretva, there are 4 companies owned by units of local self-government of 56, 30 are municipal, and 26 companies are engaged in some other activities covered by this audit. This report shows that the internal control system in most societies does not work to better manage the risks of fraud prevention. There is then no employment plan in many companies, no criteria or criteria for the promotion of employees have been established. The costs of transport shall not be recorded on the basis of the carrier’s confirmation of the amount of actual costs. Public procurement lacks a system of control of prescribed procurement procedures, no reports are recorded in the event of a potential conflict of interest, registers of public procurement contracts are missing and donations without criteria have also been paid. This report also shows that in our society there are structural changes, a constant and long-term growth of inequality in wealth and income of companies of individual units of local self-government, the City of Zagreb, the city of Dubrovnik, the city of Split that can easily deal with these problems. Secondly, we have a growing political impact because we do not have a employment plan and an increased inequality in income brings in itself richer power. There is no definition of the criteria for the payment of donations because directors and directors can make donations to whoever they want, so their political influence grows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3170	Thank you. The next individual debate is the distinguished representative Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3171	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Every finding of the State Audit simultaneously inspires but also affects the mood. It inspires in a way that it's interesting, meaningful, professionally made but affects the mood, but I'm not just going to say negative. Sometimes she also gets depressed and sometimes she has a positive influence. There are findings that are also encouraging, and there are findings that are also discouraging. For example, in this report on the effectiveness of preventing embezzlement, 7 companies have taken all measures to eliminate corruption. So seven societies were taking all the measures. That's a good find, that's a good note and a good one. But 15 companies did not take certain activities and measures. And it is necessary to deal with one and the other, to highlight those who do what is expected of them and what society expects of them, but also to show those who have not taken any action or taken insufficient action. These others are among which they took part. The problem exists with the audits, we've heard a lot of discussions here today, but there's finally not because of the way the State Audit Office works, but because of the findings, and we've noticed a few more complaints about the lack of audit. It is obvious that there are insufficient number of audits in some institutions, agencies, companies where there are indications and reasonable doubts that the State Audit would have something to look for there. However, the State's revision still has human potential undermined and cannot be able to carry out all that is expected of them. Many shortcomings have been observed when it comes to the prevention and detection of fraud in companies. Of the usual ones that are vehicles, fuel consumption, phones, employment, public procurement, but it's undeniable we heard here and it needs to be strengthened that there is a legal framework even if we're an insane society. But what's the most devastating? At the same time, we're too normized and poorly normized society. In the wrong way, it's insane. Our legal framework is often disabled not to say and dislocated. It has not proved to be good solutions that the congregation of society is only one member of the company. That can't be effective at all. It is true that in some parts we must be extremely disciplined and patient and live with the knowledge that we have after finding out about the spending of state money. But I will never agree, and I would not agree that the leaders of local self-government, chiefs or mayors and that they are called ugly names or that they are worse than other parts of society. They're no worse, maybe some are better, some are worse. Is the minister who buys Thule and privately uses them better than any local self-government leader if he uses his own car? "Thule" I'm just talking about them as a paradigm of spending state money. The mayors and mayors have an obligation, and they should have rights. But if we value them and evaluate them, we should not scold them, and we should glorify others at the same time. Nothing worse than the directors of some agencies, agency directors, or the directors of some funds. If one of the mayors or mayors of the municipality did what the heads of HMID (Croatian Pension Investment Society) had done, they would have been crucified publicly and in this case there was not even a word of it. So here's what I'm going to use the opportunity to tell you what he did 10 days ago, HMID, who manages the capital fund, and to which business shares and shares in the privatisation process have been transferred. HMID is on the OTC market of the Zagreb Stock Exchange, which is a colloquial market in which it is traded under the table. Only transactions are reported on that market, no auctions are held, only the agreed transaction is reported. The sale of 93,000 772 Kraš shares was arranged for Kraš himself for 46,9 million kuna. Or 509,9 kuna for one share. The question is, what's the problem that's been sold? So HMID's administration has been negotiating with the Kraš administration under which terms they sell Kras to themselves. Instead of auctioning on the Zagreb Stock Exchange. And auction means we see who pays more. And instead of offering to sell shares in several lotes because then the price is better. They're making a deal on the price and it's under the table. A few questions why HMID even sells Kraš shares. If he sells them, why does he sell them on an unsettled market? Who, how, and in what way, talked and negotiated prices? Imagine if you'd do something like this by the head of the community. And the form is satisfied, the transaction reported to the HANFA and said everything in the Capital Market Act. Yes, the transaction has been formally covered but we all know that the content here is much more important than the form. When and with whom he negotiated the sale of shares and those shares are listed at the same time on the stock exchange. And the stock price on the stock market is 520 kuna or 515 kuna, the day they agree on 509 kuna. And in one second damage was done to the fund and pensioners 101.4 million kuna. And no one is responsible for the damage but no one mentions in Croatia that it happened. We even have a public recognition where members of the Krasa administration boast that they agreed and were offered to buy those shares. I can't imagine what would happen to one of the mayors of Slavonia or Dalmatia or Zagorje or Istria if he sold something from his portfolio like this. And that's why blasphemy is to compare the leaders of local administrations to fund leaders, let alone call them local sheriffs and at the same time call fund leaders successful managers and head agencies experts and professionals. And we all know, and I'm going to go back to those divisors, so we all know that the divisions were a hoax and that from that case, the divisor had nothing but damage to the citizens of Croatia and that it was very much part of the HERA because it did not prevent it. What we hear, what kind of studies, we don't need studies, it's important that someone pays, it's important that those who don't have a job pay anymore don't get paid because the latest data says that 7 thousand 147 employers don't pay their salary, or 25 thousand workers. And those who receive the wages most receive them; most of them receive them under three thousand kuna. And now we still impose on them a solution like this to cost them no use at all. They don't even know how much they spend. And that's what even praisers are involved in, who are publicly celebrated, and we're avoiding someone because it's something even though I don't justify it, but if he went to the funeral on Sundays, then as head of the community, he needs to take the car to the funeral. So what's he gonna do? So from zero to 24 is available because this people chose him, he must and respond to that people and those we appoint do not respond to anyone and do the greatest damage to both the Croatian state and Croatian society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3172	Thank you. We have a few replicas. The first is the distinguished representative of Rose Vukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3173	Thank you very much. Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I simply, since I am the chief myself, feel called and must stand up for these very mayors and mayors along with my colleague Maric. So I've been suffering for three years, actually, a variety of callings, and there's always something about our burden that's complaining about. However, here I am the head of the municipality who has no official vehicle, I don't write my travel expenses, and I've never written a single diary in three years. However, because of the former chief of staff who worked and incriminal actions and the state's attorney's office did not call him for it or for those crimes for which he was called, or the courts released him, but in the first degree of the process, we also suffer sanctions or persistent appeals, various labels and so on. So I would just take the opportunity to appeal from here on out to other institutions, to the state's attorneys, or to courts to behave a little more responsibly when it comes to local leaders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3174	Thank you. The honourable representative Goran Maric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3175	Thank you very much. My colleague Vukovac, I was also morally obliged to react this way because often in a group society, there are no criteria or praises or wherever or glory or disrespect. And groups don't have such a common denominator. Imagine just a person who's sick of thinking would say all politicians are the same, all the directors are the same, all the local leaders are the same, all the doctors are the same, all the priests are the same. I can't understand that there can be a person who says something like that, so he's not thinking. Well, look at this. It's just a little tired to read the reports. Who's gonna read that? The easiest thing to say is that everyone doesn't work or everybody does. 26 of all companies, 26 of them, did not find that politics and procedures to prevent fraud meant that they had taken all the measures in 26 companies. That's the data, and the others don't. So how do you compare them? There were no other objections in 23 companies, and this should be pointed out. Of the 23 companies there were no other irregularities other than these four mentioned. And by all parameters, these five parameters in one group 26 were positive, 37 in the second, 10. So the internal control system is the most painful point. It can be read out of this, because only at 10 is the correct internal control system, but everyone else's wrong. That's what you need to concentrate on. It is not possible to place in the same basket the one in which the control system is arranged and the one in which the system is completely unsettled. Analytical and other procedures to detect fraud even in 32 legal persons exist, and others do not, so analysts show everything, and then generalize it is not only harmful, but I also think inhuman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3176	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3177	Here's Dr. Maric, you've asked me to report for this possible fraud in this context of the store, you and your painting of this Krasa transaction. I ask you to comment further, because for such cases and control, the control of the transaction is in charge of the HANFA if I am not mistaken. But I also know that HANFA has been converted into an institution, so how do you look at that new position of hers, and simply because I'm new to you here, tell us these are more informative things to inform us, or from this, one attitude that you've expressed, or the descriptions can also be specifically asked by HANFA, or to be clear about what happened. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3178	Here will be answered by the distinguished representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3179	A colleague of Lovrinovic, since HANFA became an institution, has been ineffective. When you asked if this information that's been published here is enough, or if we need to do something, it's quite enough, as any information we find in the State Audit findings is sufficient. But there are bodies and institutions that do not work, which sleep on the established facts and harmful to the Republic of Croatia. There's a problem. You don't have to repeat this anywhere. What's heard and what's known, but you don't know, what you don't know, I have to point out. Why hasn't there been an assessment of the sale of those shares? Who made the decision to sell those shares? Who made that decision to sell those shares to Krasha? Who decided to sell at the agreed price and who decided to lower the agreed price than the market price quoted on the market? And who agreed to make the price without being auctioned? And who arranged to go in a package of 8,000 shares, and doesn't go in anymore... Who arranged that? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And does the Minister in charge and the Minister in charge know about this? Do they even know about this transaction? They may find out now, but they probably didn't know by now. So someone did it in 10 days, I guess, thinking that, which would make sense, they should have already been replaced, so they couldn't do this.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3180	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3181	Thank you very much. Comrade Maric, you were talking about the divisors. Someone passed the law, but someone had let the story go before that that the divisions would solve the great sufferings of Croatian citizens, to pay only what they spent, not to pay for that loss. Because the best thing you can see is how much energy loss is when it snows, it snows one foot of snow, and for practically 20 or 15 hours you only have over the park or some meadow trail where the snow is gone. It's a waste of heat from whoever's producing it to who's paying it. However, someone has passed the Law on the obligation to install a divisor, someone has legally defined how long it must be done. However, whoever passed the law has traveled somewhere at the expense of someone who works these divisors and it did not matter in which system these divisions function and produce some results, which is that the system of one building must be practically closed system and must first be regulated how much heat energy it enters to move on. At least that's what people who understand warm energy say, but I repeat, it's a symptomatic journey, the passing of laws that the implications say someone has to install. Because you know, one divisor doesn't cost two kunas. It's supposed to cost 500 kuna. So take that even in the smallest apartment you have three, four radiators. That's 1,500, two kunas, so when you multiply that by me in Gorica, you have about six and a half thousand of those collective units and people aren't exactly God knows what kind of property. But with the desire to pay for less heat, they installed these divisors and they passed what our people say, "who bares the thorn?"
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3182	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Goran Maric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3183	Thank you very much. A fellow Shuker has been known both long and scientific and empirically proven that when there is one problem then an analysis of the problem should be carried out. That all possible alternatives should be identified and evaluated each of the possible alternatives and chosen on the basis of an analysis of the best alternative for solution to the problem. It wasn't a big problem here, it wasn't a problem, it was a problem. It was a problem. That's the goal. Then it's logical to pass the law with hastyness, it's logical to travel, it's logical to sell without solving the problem. I was recently visiting a friend who had installed a divisor and we couldn't even talk because the rusting radiators only if they completely reduce that there's no heat then it works but there's no heating. ... It's possible, too. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it is not the divisor and the law on divisors and installation that is done to help the consumer to avoid paying for losses and to pay for only what he spends but to pay for the splitrs, to make a good profit and to keep the problem still unsecured. And it's obvious that it's an insolvent problem than it's even multipled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3184	Thank you. And the last replica is that of the esteemed representative of Blaženko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3185	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Representative Maric, I really must say thank you. Here's Rose here before me, my colleague also said that because you have very objectively approached this debate on today's subject. But by following this debate for 3.5 hours, I have seen one very important thing, which is that they generally generalise and condemn, I will not repeat the term used here, the leaders of local administrations or the directors of certain companies of people who can't put a finger on either of their projects or their feet or their heads, because indeed under the coat of politics, they've been sitting here for a number of years in this House only in a manner of flat-rate condemnation without analysis and without what people in these communal companies for perhaps 2, 3 or 4, 5 thousand kunas have to do so, so I must express the term bloodyly working so that here are the people who sit in this Parliament under the coat of politics to receive their very high pay. It's not objective, it's not real. So once again, thank you, and I will dare say on behalf of a large number of people who are truly honest and honest working at local level within utility companies and companies my job, so I will thank you again for that because in this way thinking and thinking critically that everything that is outside of me or around my environment is really not good. Maybe a populist moment, yes, but generally trust me on that populist bar will drown on its own someday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3186	Thank you. The honourable representative Goran Maric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3187	Thank you, colleague Boban. I'm talking because it takes a public scene of reality and objective insight. Here, I don't want to let anyone who did something that wasn't right at all, so it was also on local self-government. But here it is mentioned in the findings that there are irregularities found in employment. It's possible, it's established. But imagine what would happen if you in Solin had a company that had two members of a company without being employed by any company. Do you think you would have to resign today as representatives of the Croatian Parliament? I think it would be so much pressure to leave alone. And here's one company that has 800 million kunas of income, has two billion kunas of income, has two board members and has 3 million kunas. Do you know how many employees? 0! And two board members, a billion kuna incomes and 0 employees. No one knows. And you in a small company there would have a bad problem. Just because of these things, I'm trying to objectively show what's going on at the local level and what's going on at the national level. You don't think you know about this? You know what company and who and for years. 0 employees! A billion kunas of income! Excellent! That's the way we're gonna go forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3188	Thank you very much. And the last individual debate is the esteemed representative of Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3189	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Today we are talking about another finding of the review on the prevention and detection of fraud among companies owned by units of local self-government and often, and I also know and talk to a number of mayors, mayors and directors of these companies when the revision is announced little of course everyone gets involved, they get a little scared because there is one idea that the revision is some sort of judgment. However, I think that here we are, for the second week, very good at discussing the expert findings of the revision that clearly show that there is simply a space within which there is a lack of logic, a non-compliance with the legal rules and that a clear revision requires through its findings that these are located. to remove what is found until the next revision. In my debate, I will refer to the findings relating to companies owned by local self-government in the area of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, because in this area other than companies engaged in municipal activities are also operating companies which have units of local and regional self-government set up to carry out other activities. Thus, the units of local and regional self-government founded 36 companies carrying out public water supply, public discharge, gas supply, fostering regional development, investment-attraction services, etc. This find was made in 2015 and here says we have 36 companies. I think we now have a few more of them in terms of the Water Act which recognized a new concept, which is a service area, and even trying means that only companies that will deal with only water supplies are separated from those that will deal with all other municipal activities. So such a legal proposal that might have gone in a different direction to ensure that we have as few municipal companies as possible today that we have never more municipal societies owned by a local self-government unit. And it's got the system together and we just have different problems. I come from a municipality that has 1200 inhabitants and two municipal societies. What have we done with that? I mean not much and not smart. But good. We are talking about the Primorje-Gorski County and the review was visited by 8 companies, Autotrolej, Rijeka Sport, energo, municipal society Kostrena, Voda Vrbovsko, Vrbsko komunal, municipal services Cres Losinj and the connected company ELECTRO - VODA Cres. The questions raised from the review in the answers will be seen that simply those societies did not answer what the audit wanted. And the questions are whether policies and procedures have been put in place to prevent fraud. No, they're not. Are the managers and other employees familiar with their responsibilities regarding the prevention of fraud? It could be part of it. Has an effective internal control system been established in view of the appearance of fraud? It's not. Have appropriate analytical and other procedures been established to detect fraud? No, they're not. The State Audit Office estimated that out of the 8 companies covered by the audit, the two companies had undertaken activities to prevent and detect fraud, which also required further improvements. It refers to Autotroley and River Sport. Until 6 companies took the necessary activities to prevent and detect fraud and major improvements are needed. Just some of the audit results. Internal acts should regulate the use of official vehicles and mobile phones in the companies Energo, Rijeka Sport, Communal Services Cres Losinj and ELECTRO-VODA, and business cards again by Energo Rijeka. Review the justification of the number of employees using unlimited official vehicles and vehicle rental services. It's the Energos again. Establish restrictions on use exclusively for business purposes with regard to the cost of mobile phones. It's the Energos again. Instead of the right to use a mobile phone without restriction to determine the allowed height in accordance with the actual business needs of the workplace, there is no Energo there is Autotroley. Obliging yourself with the consent of the congregation, which is a normal phenomenon for all. We have a problem with the community in Cres. By means of a general act, to regulate the accounting of controls and the collection of revenue and to take collection measures. This applies to the company Energo, Voda Vrbovska, Vrbovska and Communal Services Cres. Here we come to that basic issue which, especially in ours, I say to the Primorje-Gorski County, especially in the city of Rijeka when we talk about the billing and the collection of income, there is a dispute between the authorities and the opposition but also some initiatives that occur in the area of the city of Rijeka when it comes to Energy. What's going on here? There is a problem and, of course, the revision determines the part where it is responsible. They say Energo failed to charge in 2014 i.e. by the end of 2014, the total claims are 50 million kuna. From that came 12 million 341 thousand kunas, a saddened 14 million 909 thousand kunas, written off claims of 72 thousand, of which is aged 36 thousand and 530. I say once again when we talk about Energus, they're always too contentious about what's going on there. There was an initiative called against expensive Energus. The citizens have rebelled against the accounts. That's the part of the audit report that says effectively run the billing system. There's a rock of confusion about who's in charge. We have one opinion of HERA, we have Energo as a company that deals with the supply of heat energy and we have Ri Stan who, on behalf of that Energa, collects the combined bill to all tenants of the rent but also for the costs of heat and gas. And everyone interprets their story. That's where I say the find doesn't help. The initiative says they do not have HERA's permission to be able as Ri Stan, so they are not authorized to deliver heat energy, they should not charge such an account because it is not their basic activity. The city says, i.e. and the Energo company itself, we are based on the decisions of the city council, but we have entered into the system of united billing and it costs us a lot of money. While, I say, opposition parties but this initiative also says that the citizens are damaged because they are irrevocably charged certain fees that should not be charged. And in that triangle, everyone's just right and we don't have a complete solution and we don't know who really should be the one to charge for it. In all other cities, we have different situations. If you have a company dealing with the supply of water, sewage, thermal energy, it's also charging for that service. Here's the problem where that Ri Stan showed up. And now, in all these relationships, they're threatening each other, they're calling each other, and basically, the revision determines that there's a large number of outstanding claims. Everyone gets in trouble when they show up or when they complain, the citizens try to get away from it, move away and stay the same. It's still, so charged through... The city claims it's justified, there are special decisions for that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The initiative complains, says it bothers us, and we want to do it individually. The company does not have the permission of HERA to deal with the delivery and should not charge that bill. The audit on this issue did not make any recommendations unless we effectively manage the collection system. Maybe these audit findings are good, to say the same thing here, openly and professionally, but also to get some result. Because we're going to end this debate here today, but the situation between the citizens in relation to the city, the company that deals with the supply of heat, the account of the third company, will remain as old as it is. What's the review supposed to say? If she entered that system, if she looked at what HERA said, and the city is being called and the company is calling for a decision from 2010 that allows them to present a special part of the Energy account as part of the overall account, then either we have a dispute or we don't. Whether the initiatives were founded to object to such charges or not, because on the one hand the hard citizens were damaged for not knowing 14 million kunas that they paid for something more than they paid for, to some third company, and these others are telling the company, we charged what we delivered, and these others who are counting say we charged our share because it belongs to us. In such relationships, and I believe that maybe the city of Rijeka is specific, probably in some other environments it's not. We've got a bunch of accounts coming in, and there's just a lot of stuff inside of them. That's where I'll end up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3190	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. The first is the distinguished representative of Sandra Krpan.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3191	Dear President, colleague Boric. We certainly welcome the State Audit Office Report and we would like to point out that, when it comes to the Rijeka companies, the findings do not contain a negative opinion. It is about adopting recommendations from the State Audit Office. When we talk about the Energo, it is obvious that Energo has accepted the recommendations already during the revision itself, because if we did not follow the recommendations, if we disobeyed them, then my colleague Boric would mean a big problem, and I guarantee you that we will not. I would like to point out once again that a number of recommendations have already been adopted, so these accusations really don't make sense and that they are purely politically motivated, because I believe that there is anything illegal that the State Audit Office would have responded by now. And to read to you a sentence that is crucial in my opinion, which is found in the Primorje-Goran County report, says: "The State Audit Office estimates that implementation of those recommendations would contribute to establishing standards whose application would reduce the possibility of fraud would increase the awareness of managers and other employees. So in this report, we can't talk about any fraud by companies whose founder is Rijeka, including Energo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3192	Thank you. The honourable representative Josip Boric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3193	Thank you very much. I wasn't talking about fraud here. I've only read what it says in this report, and I've given one broader reference to the business of only one Energo company where the dispute occurs. I think I was saying what's true means there's a problem and there's a public dispute. There are citizens who want something else, there's a company that does what it does. Another company that also works in Rijeka as the founder. As far as the findings themselves are concerned, not everything is perfect and not a single company has given negative opinions here, so these are the recommendations of the revision and they will act according to them as you said both Energo and Autotroley and Rijeka Sport have accepted the results of the audits and have said that with 2016 they will coordinate their business with everything the revision has listed as a business problem. So it shouldn't be seen as something negative, but as a suggestion. So at first, I said that many of them were surprised as the directors of the company were probably surprised when the audit announced that they would be there, because she probably hadn't been there for a long time, so she hadn't audited her business. And of course it is determined after one long period that there are illogicalities or that certain legalitys in business are not respected. I think I say once again these audit findings are just a guideline to correct and how to behave in future times, and we see that at state level one large part of what you are here on local self-government solved, however that the problem of local self-government is in certain segments where it does not work according to the laws of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3194	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3195	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Col. Boric, it would be very interesting to see when at the end of the month an average Croatian family collects the bills they need to pay and see how much from the home budget is going to cover the costs of services or goods delivered to them by the companies that are the subject of this State Audit report. And then they would see that this amount is not even small, then they would also see that for a certain level of service certain legal regulations were changed, they were convincing people through these changes to the law that they would be slightly less than 20, 30, 40 or 50% if they invested in something, and that something is called divisions. And now if you noticed two or three weeks ago when we were here discussing the HERA Annual Report, that the head man of HERA was quite restrained about the subject. However, except for one part where HEP delivers heat to most local self-government units is done by companies owned by two companies. And when someone writes the law and says in law that you have to do something by then and then and then goes to two producers who practically only sell it in them to see how it works so they pay you the way then unfortunately there's no doubt about things. Maybe that's what the review didn't see in its report until the end, but they stopped halfway. But when they're doing the 2015 report, they might want to take a look at it, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3196	Thank you. The honourable representative Josip Boric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3197	Thank you very much. I've avoided talking about divisors because there are all kinds of interpretations. Recently, I've been reading damages since the introduction of divisors into the Republic of Croatia somewhere around a billion kunas done now. Whether they contributed to an effective charge, whether they contributed to a better thermal supply of dwellings, whether all the righteous in that system could not be known. Because we had the 2005 Law that was in line with EU legislation that addressed the issue of heat supply and we entered the EU in 2013. However, in 2013 a new law and the obligation to install divisors were passed. Then we find out how it went. We heard how the Bundesliga of Croatian politics acted, the way to Denmark, and they say that it was normal for us because you would apply something if you didn't see it and, of course, everyone was justifying themselves in the whole system. But the fact is, did we solve something or did we not solve anything? Did we generate unnecessary costs for the citizens or did we do something useful? I think it's up to us who are now in power to change some things in a positive direction because I say in these audit findings it's only now that we can see how much disrespect for this country's laws and how many mistakes have been made in the system for the sake of their known needs, but that we need to turn this around in another direction anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3198	Thank you. And now the closing statement would be said by the esteemed chief state auditor, Mr. Ivan Klesic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3199	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed MPs and MPs. First of all, allow me to thank you all for all the praises that have been given here these days but of course also the criticisms and questions that you have referred to us because only in this way this critical review is always necessary, it can contribute to the improvement of work, the quality of work and the efficiency of our institution's work. Since among you respected MPs and MPs there are both esteemed representatives and MPs who are here for the first time in this House and who first meet our reports, let me briefly try to explain the role, jurisdiction and purpose of the State Audit. So the State Audit was established in our country, so in the Republic of Croatia 22 years ago. It was founded as an office, which means that unlike some other countries in which it is organised as a court, such as usually accounting courts, there is no power to sanction audit entities and is neither an investigative nor a judicial body. Thus, the Austrians and Germans and our neighbours of the Slovenes have organized. The task of the State Audit Office is to give you the appreciation of the representatives and representatives, the citizens of this country and the entire Croatian public an objective and clear picture of how to spend the public funds of all those entities for which the office is responsible and these are users of the state budget and budget of local units, non-profit organisations within which I particularly stress political parties, and then all other legal entities that are financed or spent public funds and ultimately companies owned by the Republic of Croatia and owned by units of local and regional self-government. As you can see in our jurisdiction are thousands of subjects. A few years ago, I answered that, up to 14,000 subjects. I am therefore particularly pleased that, among other things, it has been crystallized in these discussions, all of you have seen the problem of our office and that is an insufficient number of state auditors. I would also like to remind you that, in the context of the implementation of the National Reform Programme, the European Commission, in April 2015, also requested the strengthening of the capacity of the State Audit Office. They also requested the amendment of the legal framework and the introduction of sanctions for those entities not carrying out the recommendations of the State Audit. It's just going into step with your demands here that we've heard these days. So soon on these benches will be found our law, the Law on the State Audit Office, which will go on its own amendment. The audit obligations that are therefore carried out each year are the revisions of the State budget reports that we must deliver to this House by 1 June. The audit of political parties, independent legislators and members of representative bodies selected from the voter group list as the audits of all other entities are determined on the basis of the criteria prescribed by law which are the risk assessment, the financial significance of the audit entity, the results identified by the previous audits and the information collected on the business of the audit entities. So, from the daily media and even from these reports that we're getting, it might be too bad he didn't hear it here. So, the State Audit Office is by no means a criterion for the selection of entities, it is a rejuvenation that this respected representative is not here to hear it, it is by no means a criterion for selecting the entities of the audit, belonging of the leaders to individual units of local self-government or anything, belonging to a particular political option or political party. Under the earlier law, we were obliged to carry out a financial audit each year in all local units. We haven't done these complex audits yet, these are the performance audits that are most complex, so from now on, when we increase the number of efficiency audits involving most of the entities, among other things. All units of local self-government, for example. the audit of the collection of income or the revision of unclassified roads covered almost most of the local units and companies owned by local units, as was the case with waste management or prevention and detection of fraud. I would also like to point out here, I said that about this speaker in 2011, that is what we are trying to do, as colleagues at EU level do. That's when I said an example of a colleague from Austria who I don't know from 112 audits each year is doing 104 efficiency audits. That's our direction, too. As regards the criteria for expressing their opinion, authorised public auditors shall give an opinion on the financial reports and business of audit entities exclusively in accordance with international audit standards, applying risk assessment and the prescribed method for calculating the threshold of significance. I would like to stress here that all the facts mentioned in the State Audit reports are based solely on documentation, and each report goes through 6 degrees of control. Therefore, from the audit team, the auditors, the commissioners, the legal department, the assistant general auditor by certain types of audit, the deputy chief state auditor and the main state auditor. It means that in this way it is secured I would say a very high degree of accuracy and objectivity. It can always be wrong, but it's still reduced then, I'd say to the lowest possible point. Each report and thereafter shall be subject to the obligation of the legal representative of the audit entity to demonstrate himself and has the possibility to object. So that's another possibility of control. I would particularly like to emphasise the importance of international audit standards and codes of professional ethics of the work of state auditors defining the role, function and way of working of state auditors. We hold regular meetings with our auditors, and we always stress that. So you can't look at any friendly basis, you can't take any political options into account, you just have to be all the same. We must honestly treat the audit entities and try to agree at the end of the audit with the entities to revise our views. I must also point out that state auditors, in line with this outside of the audit procedure, must again say here, and this often raises the question, must not give any advice and guidance to the staff of the audit entities in relation to the performance of their duties, or State audits should not be included in the decision-making procedures of the administration of the entities because then state auditors would be in conflict of interest. Reports on the audit carried out, this is very important, it is and Mr. President asked me to say a few words about it. So, the reports on the state audit carried out immediately after the completion of the audit are delivered to the Croatian Parliament and the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, so this is our legal obligation, and it is also a legal obligation for our reports to be published on our website at that time. If we don't do this then we're materially responding, the financial, general state auditor and assistant chief state auditor for public relations from 5 to 20 thousand kuna is a punishment. And for an institution of up to 100,000 kuna. So we stick to the law and do it. Also, I need to explain to you the relationship of the State Office for the Audit of the Republic of Croatia and the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, because this is what these issues are really about, and I would like to demystify it because I think there is no reason to think about it because we are simply acting in accordance with the law, and so are our colleagues from the State's Attorney's Office. Our co-operation with all the state bodies is I'd say excellent. There is also a relationship with judicial authorities, with the Ministry of the Interior, then with the DIP and eventually with the State's Attorney's Office. So, that co-operation with the State's Attorney's Office, I'd say it's everyday, it's great. The colleagues from the State Attorney's Office have their work methodology and the results of what they are doing are not obliged to report to the State Office for the Audit of the Republic of Croatia but to report their work to this High House as well as to the State Audit Office. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3200	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We will now take a break by 15.00 hours and will continue with the point that goes next in line Report on the effectiveness of the public procurement system carried out in commercial companies owned by the Republic of Croatia. Thank you. It's 13:30. The following is the report on the review of the effectiveness and prevention of the detection of fraud in tropical societies owned by units of local and regional (regional) self-government. Reporter is State Audit Office. The debate is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The report on the audit of efficiency carried out and the prevention of the detection of fraud among the poisoning companies owned by units of local and regional (regional) self-government is accepted.". Please vote. The vote is over. 100 votes in, one against. I find that most of the votes have come to the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3203	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed MPs and MPs. The State Audit Office provided the Croatian Assembly with a report on the audit of the effectiveness of the public procurement system in commercial companies owned by the Republic of Croatia for 2012 through 2014. The audit covers 7 companies, the Financial Agency, HZ CARGO, HZ Infrastructure, HZ Travel Transport, National Novine, PLINACRO and the Central clearing depositary company. Of this, 6 obligors of the application of the Public Procurement Act and HZ CARGO is not obliged to apply that law. The objectives of the review were to determine whether there were clear procedures in the procurement procedures from the planning phase to the use of funds, then whether goods, works and services were obtained of appropriate quality and whether they were obtained at the most favourable prices. Furthermore, whether an effective internal control system has been put in place to remove weaknesses, irregularities in public procurement procedures, whether there was a real need for the purchase carried out, and whether the purchase of goods, works and services have achieved objectives that ensure the improvement of the quality or improvement of the efficiency of companies and meet the real needs of end-users. On the basis of the facts identified and taking into account the objectives set by the audit, the State Audit Office estimated that of the 7 companies covered by this review, the efficiency of the public procurement system was effective. In one company, it is PLINACRO, in two companies, the public procurement system was effective and there was a need for certain improvements, which is FINA and the central clearing depositary company. In 4 companies, the public procurement system was not effective and significant improvements are needed, that is HZ CARGO, HZ Infrastructure, HZ Travel Transport and National Press. All 7 companies covered by the audit have identified irregularities in the area of supply planning. They do not have written guidance describing the procedures and obligations of users and organisational units in the planning of the procurement process itself. They have no written evidence of the requirements of the organisational units and the market research carried out on the basis of which the procurement plan itself is being developed. The procurement plans have not been adopted or have not been adopted in a timely manner, i.e. Before the start of the business year to which it relates, the part of the procurement was made prior to the adoption of the procurement plan. The companies did not initiate certain planned procurement procedures and have no written explanations of deviation from the performance of the plan. All these 7 companies that I mentioned covered by this audit have identified irregularities in the field of public procurement management. Companies do not have internal documents on the management of procurement procedures. Before the procurement process was carried out, they did not analyse the method of procurement, the selection of procedures most appropriate and most favourable. The deadlines for the performance of works, i.e. the provision of services, have not been realistically established and the additions have been concluded to contracts extending the deadlines. No guarantees have been provided for the good performance of the business and contracts have not been completed in accordance with the tenders. Therefore, shortcomings and failures in the implementation of public procurement procedures and practices which do not comply with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act have been observed. The procurement controls guaranteeing the legality and regularity of the procurement procedures have not been established. Systematic monitoring and comparison of the way suppliers fulfil their obligations has not been established. The companies did not take adequate care of the documentation of the procurement procedures. 6 out of 7 companies covered by the audit have identified irregularities in the area of monitoring the implementation of the contract. The companies did not regulate the general acts to monitor the implementation of the contract and did not establish mechanisms to assess the satisfaction of end-users obtained by goods, works or services. In addition, they did not monitor whether public procurement procedures were carried out in accordance with public procurement regulations, nor did they draw up records on the acquisition of goods, works and services. Furthermore, companies did not keep the contract register properly and did not lay down the conditions for the use of official cars by general acts. The State Audit Office assesses that implementation of the recommendations made will contribute to better business decisions, greater transparency in procurement procedures, greater level of public responsibility for economic and rational management of funds, and savings in the supply of goods, works and services, which should affect the efficiency of the public procurement system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3204	Thank you very much. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3205	Mr Klesic, I only lack two information about your opening explanation for the reason why we in the Croatian Parliament are late discussing this report. So, when did this public procurement report end in state-owned companies? Because the resolution ministers are in a certain way responsible for the functioning of these companies and the implementation of it all together. What you said in your introductory summary was quite disastrous for the reason that we're replaying it to the state budget, then you'll see that most of these companies get several hundred million or billions of kuna guarantees from state funds to purchase. So it's about societies first of all from this contingent that I say HZ and the logical thing was that the resolution ministers did something to change something in these companies. Because if this stays only on this report, and it's practically the second one in a few months, then in principle what you wrote will unfortunately remain a dead letter on paper. Because what you write is practically the basis for someone to make administrations not even get a discharge in the annual assembly when a financial transaction report is submitted for the previous year. Because I'm saying, what you said is just enough for that. But as far as I know, it didn't happen in the company congregations. So I'd like to know if you can tell me when the State Audit has completed its findings.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3206	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3207	Dear Representative Shuker, I'll read it. The audit procedures were carried out between 15 September 2014 and 29 October... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3208	Thank you. Now I'd like to ask if the committee's rapporteurs will take the floor? No, I don't. Thank you. We're going to the representatives' clubs. The first is the Club of Representatives of HRID and Independent Representative of Shandor Juhas, and on behalf of the Club of Representatives, the word will be taken by the distinguished representative Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3209	Dear President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the State Audit. As we have heard, unfortunately there are a lot of irregularities and as far as I can see in all 7 companies have actually identified irregularities in public procurement procedures. Sounds devastating. I've also studied these individual examples that have been sent and have some really interesting data. For example. HZ Infrastructure, for 10 railway corridors the contracted recovery of the foundations of the carrying pillar structure, for example 500 pieces is 6000 kn, while for the fifth corridor for 1500 pieces it cost 4000 kuna. Three times as many pillars for 2,000 kn less. These are small figures, but they illustrate how it is obtained. What exactly is a taste of public procurement in companies and how is it done with us, which is more a rule than an exception? First, what is controversial is that the director or the management have great autonomy to decide that something is being obtained whether it is cars or accounting programmes, and the question is, is all that is really needed, how justified is some public procurement in a company. Second question. The same common case, and it is more a rule than an exception, that in competitions which are a public subject of procurement it is such that it is adapted only to one bidder. It's almost a one-time supply. And the third question that is the same susus is and it is also unfortunately regularly done, that some simply break up supply on several smaller so-called so-called. direct contracts and thus avoid public procurement through competitions. And these three facts are crucial and it's actually a taste of public procurement in companies. The companies accumulate debts, and then they find themselves in the state budget, and on the other hand, these audit findings suggest that some simply do not want or want to or do not have to make public procurement transparently and honestly. And what is not less important in accordance with the regulations, and in fact, certain companies are just trying to avoid regulations. I would say that public procurement in Croatia has become a synonym for corruption, competition and generally illegal business for all of us. On the other hand, investigations and court proceedings are long. And yet they often serve to eliminate individuals who, at a certain point, are no longer in play, and political and other accounts. The State Audit Office as well as each time has made a recommendation that it is necessary to bring procurement plans before the start of the financial year, that it is necessary to plan the purchase of exclusively required goods, works and services, that financial opportunities should be taken into account, etc. etc. And these are really quality recommendations, and so were the previous reports, and so every time the State Audit Office does its part, but the most important question is what happens next. We all remember a lot of affairs, but as far as I know, we don't remember any rigorous measures to send a message that such acts in public procurement don't pay off. Recently, it released data that Croatia fell 22 places in the index of economic freedoms, ahead of Macedonia, Albania and Serbia. The bad result is particularly in the rule of law and the management of public finances, so we're not moving forward. And this debate practically makes no sense if, in accordance with the audit findings, there are no sanctions for certain companies. I agree with the opinion of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, which states that the price should not be the only criterion but also the quality. Of course, companies should take care of the public good, but administrations and directors do not manage the good lord’s manner. What's the key? Well, it is a key way of managing and responsibilities in the conduct of this public procurement. That's two of the most important things. Trade companies are unfortunately more and more political prey, and individual directors, as we know, have been appointed without the necessary qualifications. There were even extreme cases where some had no internships, etc. And then when financial damage is done, the consequences are borne by taxpayers. Or to save a thing is thinking about selling a complete company. I personally prefer better management mechanisms and better control mechanisms than sales, depending on the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3210	Thank you. Next is Mrs. Rusak's turn, or Mr. Hrebak's first? On behalf of the HSLS-BUZ club independent list Gordana Rusak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3211	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, dear Mr Klesic, as I said before, you have done an excellent job, but the result is worrying. I'd take advantage of that famous jump operation, and the patient died. Here's just one example. The National Journal, a company almost 180 years old, and according to this report, the State Audit has not fully implemented the public procurement procedure as it should in accordance with the law, and it is just proof that where public procurement is carried out as we said companies are successful, where there are certain illegalities of the company reflects on the overall business of a company. I'm only going to make some suggestions that the State Audit has made as guidelines for the administration of the People's Newspaper. In fact, I will not talk about the finding itself, because the guidelines will show what a disastrous finding was and how all the bad decisions were made in this very stable, respectable and company that is known throughout the Republic of Croatia. The selection of suppliers was not carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, therefore unlawfully. The State Audit Office proposes to conduct public procurement procedures in good time, now be careful, in order to achieve an economically favourable offer. What is most scandalous is what I found in this report says the People's Journal we all know the activity it is dealing with in its original capacity, says the use of investigative services is not justified. I'm asking the question now how does one firm we all know about have a need to hire investigative services? Therefore, the State Audit raised the question of those investigative services, the question of the eligibility of the arrangements for the monitoring of individual persons and family members. What does that mean exactly? One company employs investigative services to monitor members of a family. So I quote it is officially stated in the report of the State Audit, and it is precisely me that Mr. State Auditor climate-headed so that is correct. I note all of this happened within the same therefore coalition government of the Kukuriku coalition from 2011 to 2014. And now we're essentially coming up with what's called the biggest scandal that the State Review has ever found, so that's not my personal interpretations, that's what the State Review found and what I quote is determined. Implementation of the paper-water confection production project. In particular, the implementation costs of this project were from 2013 to 2015. 63 million kuna. It is initially now that I do not elaborate everything that has been put into the report of the State Audit, so there is a particular investment project, an embodies of the cost-effectiveness of the production of paper toiletry. In May 2012, the company created it which deals with the production of paper. They found one hall, an elaborate was proposed to purchase 2 manufacturers from Italy. For production, a 800 square-square production hall in the Kukuljanovo zone in Rijeka, which was therefore owned by the company itself, namely the National Newspaper. It is stated that the existing construction facility fully meets the accommodation of machinery and location in Rijeka is ideal because of the central location or coverage of the entire market and the proximity to the source of the repro material found in Italy. So, one quite normal project that we can discuss whether it was justified or not, but now we are coming up with a key problem and a turn. According to the record of the colleges of 8 August 2014, the new management of the company has therefore visited the business space in Kukuljanov and, independently of all previous labs, it is decided that the mentioned space is not sufficiently large, i.e. the production line is 27 meters long, not to mention that millions and millions of kuna have already been spent in all of this. Investment studies of the production of paper toiletry have been developed by a company from Slovenia. So everything was justified, but then something strange happens. According to the minutes of the Board of Supervisors meeting of 15 September 2014, the Management Board informed the Authority that the production of toilet paper should nevertheless be carried out in northwestern Croatia instead of in Kukuljanovo. And so I'm asking a logical question why did the entire project, which was beaten into 63 million kuna overnight, fly to where? In northwestern Croatia, in Krapina. And of course I'm asking is that because the People's Newspaper was part of the People's Party at the time? But that's not all. On 20 November, the Supervisory Board agreed to the conclusion of a business space lease contract in Krapina for a specified period of 7 years after the Management President informed the Supervisory Board that from the arrival of 6 offers, only the Krapina company offers all the conditions. Which is not in line with the tender analysis of 23 October 2014 according to which out of the 28 conditions requested the successful bidder met 16. The documentation did not show whether the supervisory board was in writing familiar with the analysis of the offers. Now, the review confirms these claims of my own, so my claims confirm the revision, I quote, the company should have reconsidered the justification of making decisions on changing the place of delivery of the machine to a new location in Krapina, since it is in an investment project respectively... the production of paper and toilet confectionery in May 2012 which was the starting point for a decision on the implementation of the project indicated that the location in Kukuljanovo is in advantage, so in Rijeka, the advantage of this one in Krapina. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And for the location in Krapina, listen well, a monthly rent of 234 thousand kuna is paid. So the zone in Kukuljanov is free because it is owned by the company, it is decided that complete production is still moved to Krapina where monthly rent of halls that are not owned pays 234 thousand kuna per month. The non-publishing of the tender, the state's audit for the lease of business space in public advertising missed the possibility of getting a larger number of offers. By concluding a business space lease contract in Krapina, which had been committed by the company in the event of the termination of the contract before the lease period, to compensate the tenant for the amount of a million and 450 thousand kuna in the name of the investment, the state audit did not take place in the interest of the company. So now we're going back to those private investigators, they'll probably figure it out. However, if private investigators do not see any reason why they have not been informed of this and of the state's, competent state's attorney's office. I'm actually not going to quote right now, there's still a lot of what the state's audit found about this whole case, I think it's scandalous. I hope that it will also be presented to the Croatian public not only from this place, but also from those who are in charge of the media will be well questioned about the above case, that they will study this report of the state audit because it is indeed scandalous. Now that we've done all of this in the end, I need to make a little reference to the state of the National Journal today. On this example, I want to show what kind of expensive state we actually have and how money leaks to us because of bad business decisions without anyone answering. Here I have an article from one of our daily lists entitled fiasco business with state toilet paper, the National Journal submitted a project of 63 million kuna, replaced management and the business continued to fail. In conclusion, perhaps the subtitle in this article best describes the situation in the National Journal, along with the official messenger for the Government, we will also produce top-notch toilet paper. It is in that National Journal that I believe that the former government has shown that poor political staffing in the hands of only one political party can destabilise a traditional company with a rating, with good business. And dear colleagues and colleagues, in conclusion, I hope this situation never happens again. I hope that we will be responsible enough to leave no more state-owned enterprises in the hands of only one party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3212	Thank you. Continued exposure on behalf of the club distinguished representative Gordana Rusak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3213	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We've heard a lot about public procurement today and the results you're expecting. All in accordance with that dog barks and the caravans pass, as rough as that sounds. The reports are correct and in line with the mandate of the audit, which I thank the auditors. The problems have been detected but it is time to finally set deadlines for removing these irregularities or to enforce sanctions, especially if irregularities have the character of repetition. Of course, it's the business of the principal owner, i.e. The governments of the Republic of Croatia and it is up to it to act accordingly. There is certainly a need to insist on greater control of the public procurement system at all levels but also, we have seen this from the reports, the adoption of precise instructions for all segments and business processes of public procurement. If all public procurement processes are well defined and described are easier to implement but are also easier to control and monitor. One detail, in common from several individual reports, has been particularly in my eye and I think it's one of the greatest pains. And that's an objection to the revision of the procurement planning process. Of course, it should also be very detailedly defined or prescribed. In practice, however, there is a question of how the number or the amount planned for the procurement occurred. Did the purchase amount in the procurement plan come from below, read the owner or on the side read the desired supplier? Or did the amount come through a systematic analysis of market research? I think there's a pretty big problem to work on. But aside from this better control of the public procurement system, I think we should also resort to some system solutions that would make the whole system more efficient and transparent. That's where I primarily think about centralizing public procurement. I'm only going to give one banal example, so banal that it's almost ridiculous but a colleague touched it before me. So all state-owned companies get for example. The toilet paper. Why would they especially buy it in the Railways, especially in the FINA when centralised public procurement is possible to get lower prices and more favourable conditions? Such, so-called. Standardised supply of goods and services has progress and are common to all public and state-owned enterprises. And it can be implemented, realized within the so-called a state holding company if it will not eventually be formed then as part of a joint and public procurement service under quotes. Such a centralised institute or way of public procurement is also easier and simpler, even cheaper. And now a very specific question. I come from an institution where a computer of the same performance bought through public procurement stands far more than the same one bought at any computer store. I'm sure people who run public procurement do it in a transparent way and there's no doubt of any malfeasance, so how is that possible? Is there some kind of system error in public procurement that can lead to a situation like this? I would like an answer in the final address of Mr. Chief Auditor, Mr. Klesic. And to finish, the way I've finished my presentation so far, let's not let everything remain in fact-telling and moaning over the congested state. I call on the relevant parliamentary committees to establish quality cooperation in their domains with relevant ministries and to work together to create legal frameworks and regulations in the direction of removing existing irregularities. Otherwise, this pay phone will be a place where only empty words are heard that do not follow works. Do we want that kind of Parliament? I believe that neither we nor the citizens who pay us for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3214	Thank you. We have one replica of the presentation of the esteemed representative of Dari Hrebak, the distinguished representative of Giovanni Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3215	Dear counterpart Hrebak, you were in your section on the basis of the findings of the Office of State Audit of a certain negative example. I volunteered for the replica, because it seems to me, in fact, I am a firm attitude, that on any subject, we deal exclusively with the consequences in any area, and we don't open space, we don't offer solutions and we don't talk about cause. Anyone who works, who gives a unit to local self-government, whether at the head of a particular company, whether at the head of a certain state institution, then they can freely afford themselves because I am also the head of local self-government, that the cause of a large part of these consequences is a bad Law on public procurement and that the key to a solution is the new Public Procurement Act. If we all focus our energy together in that direction and contribute to reducing the consequences in that part, and then let the state institutions process the ones they need to process later, then we have made a contribution on our part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3216	The esteemed representative Dario Hrebak will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3217	My dear colleague, I absolutely agree with your position, but I do support it. But I must stress that there is no direct connection to this exhibit of mine. Of course, this exposure was a very, very negative example not only of public procurement but also of the general management and business of one renowned company, and it is solely because of the political way of staffing within the company itself. As far as the public procurement system is concerned, I absolutely support you, the Public Procurement Act should take into account its one new different approach. And I think there's no dispute here, and that's where we get along. However, I also support this proposal that we are essentially constantly discussing the consequences, and in no way how to prevent the consequences. That's why I wanted to stress with my own exposure that it could be a devastating political staffing within a large state-owned company. As far as the Public Procurement Act is concerned, I once again support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3218	Thank you. And now for Mrs Rusak's presentation, counterpart Rusak has a replica of distinguished representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3219	Thank you, Mr. President, colleague Rusak. Well, you inspired me, but actually all the discussions that are going on today to remind all of us that this find of the State Audit is actually an excellent tool that is based on the Anti-Corruption Strategy. Namely, colleagues and colleagues, we have a Corruption Prevention Strategy 2015-2020, which is in force and with it we have an action plan to implement the Corruption Prevention Strategy, which has two chapters. Chapter 513 is public procurement and Chapter 514 are companies in majority state ownership. Both chapters have precise measures, carriers, deadlines, implementation indicators on the basis of which exactly what counterpart Sponza was now talking about. So it's not the consequences, it's trying to get ahead of the damage that's caused by the consequences. And what is very important is why I came forward for the word, most of these measures should be implemented in the last quarter of 2015 and the first quarter of 2016, so that this review finding is actually a great tool to help these measures actually happen and thus reduce the damage caused by the corruption in public procurement and fraud that happens to companies at both local and state level.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3220	The distinguished representative Gordana Rusak will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3221	I think in my presentation, I made it clear and loud that we should move from word to deed. I agree if there are all these legal frameworks, if there are opportunities to do all that about what my colleague Jovanovic was talking about I'm first for. And I'm the first to follow this speaker, not the only one, but among the few today I went aphidically in this debate and said that I was expecting some sort of solution, not just the pangs from these benches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3222	Thank you. And now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the word will be taken by the distinguished representative, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3223	Thank you, Mr. President, distinguished state auditors, respected colleagues and colleagues. I think if these companies that were the subject of the State Audit were owned by any of us here in this assembly I think there would be a discharge so-called. The manager in these quantities that not all hahunters in Croatia would have helped them together. First of all, I congratulate the Office for Auditing the job well done, although there is one of the few places where it should not be saved in the state budget, then it must be the State Audit Office. Somehow, it seems to me that where we save hundreds of thousands of kunas, we lose millions, tens of millions. I think that needs to change a little bit. As far as this report is concerned, it is not only important, therefore transparency and efficiency of the procurement of course. However, it is particularly important since no matter who has been in the opposition for years is our attention to economic growth and recovery. And given the quantity, i.e. the importance and size of the Croatian economy of the public sector, public enterprises are then also this report and in general this public procurement team is more important, so I will return to this little, to the importance of this public procurement to public enterprises, i.e. to the Croatian economy later in this exhibition. We've often had to listen to the past year, two, three but especially in the last year of 2015 about how the former government is introducing order. He was particularly active in this statement was Mr. Milanovic, who constantly reminded us all that order was being introduced and I will still quote that this was being implemented by the former government especially in public enterprises. So I'll quote it this way, he says in the State Audit report, for example. "Societies have no written evidence on the basis of which a procurement plan is drawn up. The documentation does not show that the supply of goods, works and services is planned on the basis of real needs and financial opportunities", the end of the quote. Then he goes on to say, "Some services have been obtained without applying the prescribed procurement procedures. Some procurement procedures were carried out with a delay and the procurement was completed without the contracts being concluded," the end of the quote. And then he says, "Societys don't follow the achievement of the procurement plan, it's not defined who's responsible for monitoring and achieving the procurement plan." "Societies have no reason to deviate from the plan." So, for example, I'm not going to quote but the company says they're not trying to get a few offers at all, although there are companies that are able to offer competitive offers but only contracts with one company. And so on and so forth, I could say a lot there right now, but I assume you've been reading what the State Audit Office stated. Why, now to return to this economic recovery and the importance of the public sector or public procurement. So why is it so important? The State Audit Office itself finds it important. So first of all, we could hear the most economically favourable offer today. Therefore, the public sector and the amount of companies purchased not only today that we are discussing is so large and so important especially for medium and small entrepreneurs and craftsmen that each, especially the Government of the Republic of Croatia which manages these companies, should be in the interest of public procurement in public companies being transparent, efficient but also caring. And I had the opportunity to talk to them personally on several occasions when I was in Austria just as my colleague Rusak mentioned state holding but also Austrian and speaking to them, so one of the key goals of this Austrian holding company, which manages the public or shares that Austria has today in public enterprises, is to ensure that domestic companies, in this case, should be Croatian companies primarily medium and small businesses, craftsmen deliver products and services to our public enterprises. And that's what the State Audit find itself, and I'm very glad and I really welcome it, several places are listed. Let's just say we secure the best value for money by principle. That's it. So, if you only want the price then which times our companies in particular may not be competitive, first of all, because unfortunately our country still doesn't have the most competitive position in Europe or beyond, so even entrepreneurs can't be competitive beyond their own country on the domestic market. Then, secondly, the State Audit Office therefore proposed to conduct open procurement procedures, thus enabling competition and avoiding discriminatory effects and achieving the possibility of obtaining the most economically favourable offer. I know that which way is not easy, that the atmosphere that was created and people who should not only be criticised but should be told which times is not easy to take a position and implement the tender according to the most economically favourable offer, so tomorrow at the DORH explain why you bought from the Croatian company this expensive, but this is something that I think, regardless of the left, right, up or down, we need everyone together in this Parliament to discuss well because without it, without Croatian entrepreneurs being able to work on their own market as much as there is no further exports or survival of the Croatian economy. In particular, speaking of Croatian entrepreneurs, I would refer to a part called monitoring the implementation of the contract. So whoever has real experience from the Croatian economy then knows that it is often a problem to monitor the implementation of the contract. Why? Because, as I don't know, I guess in 80%, 90% of public procurement only treats or takes the price, then if you want to set something up then, and in some ways it actually writes clearly, which is therefore the most affordable, but if after that you don't monitor the whole procedure after the contract is signed then, of course, the most favourable offer is not necessarily accepted. It's just that outside the cost-effective work, in any other way, here it is now that I'm not quoting there's a lot of it, but there are really a lot of recommendations that we all need to take into account here, and I hope that this will finally start now with this government going on in all public enterprises. Therefore, it is simply necessary that, especially after the contracts are signed, the implementation is monitored, in order not to be followed by a variety of machinations actually at the expense of society, and this means that all of us who are co-owners indirectly of these public enterprises have excluded those who should have won the original at the competition and, on the other hand, lose really significant money. I won't read the recommendations, there's really a whole series and once again congratulations to the office for all the recommendations you've made. What I'm only sorry about is that I don't see what the system is and what is the way to penalize and implement all these not only recommendations but also what was done wrong. So there would be, and I hope that the chief state auditor in the final address will certainly say something about how at the end of the day, first and foremost, to force those responsible, and these are the administrations, to follow these recommendations that you are the same on the one hand, and these are primarily administrations. So, now I don't mean directly to the government, but those who are responsible for managing these recommendations and uphold the law because it's phenomenal in fact reading in many places here in this report that public companies don't adhere to the Public Procurement Act. I'd like to say a few more words about that management itself. My colleagues used to mention laws. So let's not fool ourselves here as a legislative body that there are perfect laws and that we'll come up with laws here, all together if we can figure out who can solve our real problems. I think it's been a lot of attempts over the last few years, so I mean, I hope we realize that the laws without the people who are going to carry them are dead letters on paper. And I'll even stick around here and say that people are certainly more important than the law, people who will do their job professionally. So we can have the best in Europe Public Procurement Act but if you don't have people who will not only follow the law but who will understand the essence that the legislator wanted to achieve hard for us all to get out of this fungi together. And that's why I have to say as there are pens, there should be a reward system. So it's impossible to expect and we're all talking about the professionalization of public administrations in public enterprises. So on the one hand, yes, there must be punishment but there must be a reward. It is impossible to expect quality best people, those who will really manage to benefit all of us, all citizens of Croatia who are co-owners of these public enterprises without giving them the correct market wages that exist today in Croatia and to introduce a system of rewards and penalties. The ultimate punishment is the termination of these managerial, famous contracts. Not only that, there are other penalties but there must be a reward on the other hand. So I think it's equally important if not more important than the laws themselves. So the laws can certainly always be better and we should all work together, especially these laws when we talk about the recovery of the Croatian economy but first of all we always come to people, so let's not fool ourselves that without people, you can get out of this vicious circle. Here, you'd have to talk a lot more about this report. I'm not going to go into the details of companies, but I'm going to go to the end once again, so HZD will support this report, we will certainly vote yes, congratulations on your hard work and I wish you all the best still.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3224	Thank you. A distinguished representative of Gordana Rusak came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3225	Thank you. You mentioned people to your colleague Milosevic, and you said that even the best laws cannot be implemented unless we have people to implement them. I completely agree with you. And that is why I say once again from this position that without education and without the society that invests in education, we will not be able to implement one or the slightest reform, let alone the more serious ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3226	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Domagoj Ivan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3227	Well, yeah, I'll just add to what you said and the same should concern public administrations. So there's a world out there, and there's a very, very respectable school where there's tens of thousands of people from many countries who need to manage public administration. However, not only management in public enterprises, we should finally be aware that governance within the administration should also not have anything to do with politics. Management is management. So of course the political party or most in some parliament decides on the direction but the administration needs to do its job in quality, so we should also be educated, so we should consider that maybe we, too, are some people from our administration who are professionals that we need... We send them to those schools on one side. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And on the other hand, what is the Croatian problem in 2016, today when we are a full member of the European Union, which is that unfortunately we do not have enough institutions built, we do not have enough administration built, but that is why we all need to build it together.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3228	Thank you. Next debate on behalf of the club distinguished representative Silvano Hrelja, club HSU, Stipe Petrina.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3229	Dear Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Clesic is with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to get one thing straight here first and not expect the state review to solve all our problems. Neither they are bau bau nor they have mechanisms in which they will bring order to neither local, local self-government or state-owned enterprises, etc. But what I dare say about the state review is that they are, with their persistent action and by pointing out the shortcomings in the processes in Croatian society, friends of Croatian citizens because they care about the common good. So that's what matters. Their insistence here and their report that we're discussing certainly doesn't deserve to be negatively or positively connoted. Because there are no marks like that because they're not the ones who are going to refer to the state's attorney's office as criminal courts intervene. The reports themselves refer to everyone and they are all invited to intervene. First they were invited to intervene members of the board of directors, then members of the Supervisory Board, then the Assembly and the institutions of the system. They all get these papers at the same time. I can, we can throw away the terms embarrassingly, this one. None of these societies got an unaccountable grade, so the last one, the worst grade. We have a passing grade for Plinacro, so a very good grade. We have a score with minor shortcomings for the FINA and the Central clearing depositary company and we have an estimate that the public procurement system was not effective for HZ CARGO, HZ Infrastructure, Travel Transport and the National Journal. This does not mean that it still does not mean that the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia or the investigative authorities should intervene. This is a system that needs to be built. And we're talking critically about this report. This is one of the reports that contains a positive example. Why not discuss this positive example? If Plinarro could respect all the regulations that regulate why can't other administrations, other societies? Why can't I do that? We're mixing the Minister's responsibility inside, the responsibility of this, the responsibility of that. My people in the board of the board of directors, this must be handled independently of what the minister thinks and who is in power. The issue of review and the effectiveness of the public procurement system is beyond any government, surpasses all governments. It is our obligation under the strategic documents we adopted here in the Croatian Parliament. Today we can't talk these were bad, these were good. And I answer to my colleague, Ivan Domagoj Milosevic, to his conclusion that we should stay, or that those who do well should be rewarded. I wonder if everyone will be confused when it comes to order or if this company where Plinarro has this and a positive business result will be very positive for everyone. Or we'll end up with that story once and for all, it's your turn now. Yeah, yeah, but are we going to finish and whether we're going to follow the football rule, that the teams that win stay, and those who lose leave. I'm asking you, now it's your turn to show by your example how positive results should be respected. So, I'm just gonna follow up on what's gonna happen to these societies. So, of course, we'll discuss it. But I agree with you fellow Milosevic, that there must be a reward for a good result absolutely, although in this case, because I know him well and such a reward has lagged behind. But it's from solidarity with the times in which this business was being watched. And one more thing, here from the pay phone we're investigating that public procurement plans have not been implemented. This is the period of revision from 2012 to 2014 And I highly doubt if there were earlier procurement plans, that this very new administration would stop following these public procurement plans. No, they've been gone before and, of course, they've moved on with the same business. So we have in various societies that still today pay the costs of previous administrations, the cost of life insurance of previous administrations will be paid by this administration and will pay for some other administration, and this depends on how the chairman of the Supervisory Board will allow such a decision to be made or not. So again the problem begins and ends with politics. So I said this is a test to the new government that it all ends up being run by companies with good master manners, respecting the profession of this one we're talking about here. But I find it very indicative that those who have very difficult rules of profession, which is this company Plinarro, are very rigid regulations for their business, the dangers of fires, explosions, take care of two and a half thousand kilometers of gas pipelines. So they're very rigid and in these systems respecting all regulations is normal. This used to be normal in the Croatian Railways system, but it is obvious that Croatian railways have been trained to respect certain very rigid regulations. Obviously, it went beyond the profession, that some new people, regardless of who the government came with, took over the helm and that today we have a lack of respect for the profession, but also a lack of respect for other regulations. It is very easy to get a good atmosphere divorced and very difficult to get back on track again. So I appeal and in some ways we are experiencing an audit as a state body that introduces a certain level of standards, certain rules of conduct for everyone in this country, that we appreciate them and respect their findings without expecting them to hunt witches across the Republic of Croatia. Of course, the Croatian party of pensioners, i.e. the Croatian party of pensioners and the independent list of Stipe Petrina will support this report because it is very quality, because if we want to have positive examples of which we can learn from. And we have negative ones that we have to avoid, but all of this together doesn't deserve to be attacked and called and certain ministers in this past or any future government, but to concentrate on what's important, which is to correct the systems according to your findings, because it's for the benefit of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3230	Thank you. A distinguished representative, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, appeared for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3231	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Hrelja, I am very fond of you, you know not, but I did not hear you in 2012 when then the new government, now the former government has swept up not the administration, but all levels of governance in all public enterprises regardless of the results of the management. I don't remember anyone rebelling in this assembly when it was going to change the final path towards an organized administration which, among other things, I'm going to remind you all of myself contains directors. The directors were professionals. Maybe they weren't the best, maybe they weren't all ideal, but then under the secretary of state, there was finally the administration that I was talking about for years. That's one thing. As far as specific examples are concerned, let's say the director of Zadar Airport. The woman had to leave because she dared pay off with a guaranteed bonus contract. So, what do we actually have to talk about today? So, is all this supposed to be done? Yeah. But we'd better let go for the past few years. I'll just tell you about the public procurement. Public procurement can certainly be and should be one of the criteria when talking about rewarding and punishment systems, but not the only one. So if you run a monopoly company that manages infrastructure only in Croatia, then it's hard, then it's just the first grade of primary school, not the preschool to respect the Public Procurement Act. I mean, you can't do that director's duty if you won't respect the Public Procurement Act in your own country. That's the first one. So above that, we can talk about what this company's goals are. If someone is an infrastructure monopolies, then they can't just aim profit because they serve all of us, the economy, the citizens, etc. Well, then when the owner, and that's the state. The government knows what these goals are, then the strategy comes out of it, and then we come to this state holding, and holding it is totally wrong, but what is it really about? And that's that the state has to discuss in one place, but not the resolutional ministries alone. So, the resolution ministries are in charge of strategy and goals, I have to finish, but on the other hand, the operation has to be done by professionals. Here, I could go a long way on that subject, but we'd better let go of what's been going on over the past few years.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3232	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3233	Dear colleague, I have also suggested that we let it go for some other debates, but I must tell you that you were wrong when you said that the Government had swept it up in 2012. She changed administrations during their term of office. And secondly, when you say that I was talking about a monopoly company, all the companies monitored by this report have a monopoly and are the only ones in Croatia who do the job. What's the alternative to the FINA? What's the alternative to HZ Cargo? Who do they have a game with? So everyone here has a business by you for first grade primary school. Which is not true! But I agree, or agree with one, that this is not the only criterion for respecting the administrations. I agree with that. The criteria and profits and investments and all that should be done by a good company are criteria for assessing the management of a company. But just know, at this very firm, those who left after the end of the mandate left with high severances and today, that company is paying them life insurance. If you don't believe me, please check it out.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3234	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative of Blaženko Boban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3235	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You are neither funny nor funny to me, nor to me, as fellow Milosevic, but your debate is really funny. Namely, I'll remind you of one thing. You're saying we forget all this together and that the new government is on the move and that we shouldn't think about it. One parliamentary representative cannot and must not say so if he has such an audit report in front of him, however, he is obliged to direct all the institutions of the Republic of Croatia to conduct a major state attorney's investigation and we have heard, in particular, an example from a fellow company based on public procurement, pay more than 200 thousand kuna rents for space, and do not use 0 kunas at another location. And you say let's forget it. But I understand you, you're also one of those who's under the cover of politics and you can't point your finger at that project or the activities you've spent for the benefit of the Republic of Croatia and you live from these people here as well as those from the previous debate mornings from utility companies and companies from the local level. I have to tell you that you don't have the same archaic here because you could have said the same thing this morning about local companies, but no, you didn't. So there's no forgetting in the segment of crime, fraud, public procurement. I sincerely ask you to discuss in this way whoever this is, whether these, those, whether by 2012, 2014, 2016 or any other year. That's the only way this country can go straight forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3236	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3237	Well, dear colleague, you know, it's kind of rude to say someone's funny. But I must tell you that I am very concerned by your ignorance for the reason that the State Audit Report has received all the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia which are free to act. Therefore, both the State Attorney's Office and all relevant institutions have received these reports. What do we have to preach and hold a mass when the priests got what the material was for them? What are you talking about? It's an elemental ignorance of the system. And whether or not I could discuss local self-government this morning I'm not a cheerleader and I wasn't here because I was prevented so I couldn't take part in the debate. If you want a normal answer to a normal question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3238	Thank you. And we still have a replica of the distinguished representative Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3239	Thank you very much. You don't have to be angry, everything's fine, everyone's got the results, all the facilities, the DORH, the BOOK, the PNUSKOK, we just don't know what's going on there? Whether they're on a collective yearly basis, whether there's fear of this new ZIKA virus in the air or whether it's some kind of behavior that we're not clear when we're looking at it from the position of power. Because you were talking about the findings of some companies, here public companies owned by the state. I'm sorry the audit didn't go to HEP as well. Here, I'm sorry about this period. Because I've been reading this recently to the Portal, HEP has to get back to work as former management president, pay him 1.1 million kuna, pay him back his official Audi A6, pay him back his life insurance and pay him back and return his official phone. What happens when you fight two groups inside one party? The injured director who was appointed by the party and then we have a result over the funds of Croatian citizens i.e. the payment of a large amount of severance or return to work or the return of benefits because they dared to sign a manager's contract, which is only one level of monthly salary payment of 47 thousand kuna. So we're wondering if we're all in the right shape. So who's to blame for why this has to be paid off. Some kind of conflict inside a party, that's what it looks like to me. Some will say it's something else if it wasn't professional. But then why put it on if it wasn't professional? Some will say another explanation was not similar. And what did we put in again if it wasn't like him? And now we've come to what we have now. Bring the regulation in 10 months when there's no choice and now we have to put in the expert. I think all of these will remain there now because if they have such managerial contracts as this one has, these are hundreds of millions of kuna obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3240	Thank you. And the reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3241	In the first part of my reply to the replica, I'm going to tell you that you and I know as well as I are that we are not officials of the DORH or of any institution or state audit. Thus, they work according to their principles, according to their own criteria, but one thing is certain that they receive reports. As for the review in all our parties, so in the revision of these audits and what was at the debate this morning and what would be tomorrow and the day after that. And secondly, I finally have to agree with you, Mr. Boric, and I would be very glad that the review was in HEP. Thank you very much. But for another period.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3242	We have the latest exhibition on behalf of the HNS club, Liberal Democrats, Honorary Representative Milorad Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3243	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleague Klesic with associates and associates, colleagues and colleagues. This is not the first and I suppose there will be no final report on whether the audits or any other reports that have received a political epilogue rather than the contents of what is stated inside. Namely, I will try very briefly, first of all I would like to commend the report and, as many colleagues and colleagues have said before, it is necessary, it can be corrective and it is also a very good tool for those who are subject to the revision to be better. First of all, I would like to remind us all and it says very clearly who they were, which is the subject and what are the objectives of the review. So I'll read, so the objectives of the review are whether there are clear procedures in public procurement procedures. Whether goods are obtained works and services of appropriate quality and whether they are obtained at the most favourable prices. Whether an effective internal control system is in place. That's what it means when it comes to public procurement segments. If we had or had had one after another debate when we had a report by the state of the commission on the revision of public procurement procedures so that we could see their findings for certain companies in the public sector, to see their findings, to compare, then we would have one far-reaching picture. Furthermore, two objectives that followed whether there was a real need for public procurement. I have to admit, I have one questionnaire. There's a question of what to get something if there's no need. I have a dilemma. The following is whether the purchase of goods, works and services has achieved objectives that ensure the improvement of quality, i.e. improving the efficiency of society and meeting the real needs of end-users. Well, that's the elemental goal. These are the elemental objectives for which public procurement is carried out. That's acceptable to me. Furthermore, the next section meant where the criteria were discussed a key sentence, the backdrop of the review seemed the main issues. So it says whether the public procurement system in society is effective. Then questions whether public procurement planning is well organised. So that's when I was telling the State Commission's report, the comparison to switch and make an integral version, then we'd have one far-reaching interpretation of whether the public procurement system is really good. Whether it is formal, this is extremely important, in writing a certain way of managing public procurement procedures. It means whether formal procedures are clearly prescribed in the companies they're talking about. Whether the control system followed by the implementation of the contract has been established and whether the goods, works and services obtained have achieved the planned objectives or improved the efficiency of the company. It now enters that part of the business, the issue of the administration, the supervisory boards, whether the system is effective as a whole, whether the business plans that the companies had to bring are adequate, or what the results of the business are at the end of the year. There are very interesting things, I'm just going to take on some of the obvious, meaning the results of the audit, which is what the audit found. Under public procurement plans, companies do not have written instructions for planning purchases that would further identify the obligations and responsibilities of individual participants. That's weird to me. So they can conclude that there is no person, responsible person, licensed person who carries out public procurement or in larger systems that there are no teams of people. In addition, there is no written evidence of the requirements of the organisational units as a basis for drawing up the procurement plan. I mean, do these companies do business plans at lower organisational levels, or have no written evidence based on which to draw up a procurement plan? Well, isn't there an annual activity plan that's going to work, I don't know if they're going to get HZ Infrastructure, the rails whether they're going to get it, I don't know the office material or anything? The procurement plans were not adopted in due time, I don't think it's such a sin and says further, no one is responsible for drawing up the procurement plan. So there's a question of structure, a question of systematicization. And of course I'm not going any further there are these recommendations, and what's later in the recommendations and especially written which is more than good than editing procedures, means how to manage them. However, I have one dilemma in order to achieve a more favourable price of purchase is to give open procurement procedures compared to negotiation procedures. There are different experiences. I believe it depends well on the size of the company, on how business is done, on how it works, because some times it can be achieved at a cheaper price. That's what practice says, not that it's general. In this part, they can then agree, analyse prices of goods, works and services of related companies and compare them with market prices. I'm saying if it's seen, now I don't know exactly, it's unweighted, it's not exactly pointed out in which societies, what ratios are seen as a lack in the functioning of society. However, we generally have a serious problem. Not us, the congregations, the boards, the boards of directors. The question is whether certain societies are well managed and well-qualityd, so are these societies, are they well managed, is it just a matter of administrations? I think someone in the debate mentioned education which I think is extremely important. Also, the question of making, I say, I'm going back to business plans. If we compare it to the utility companies, we've had a previous debate, too. I am not sure how much the public procurement process can improve the business of some companies unless other segments that are extremely important to me have been satisfied. But I believe the next revisions will show something else. What I would like to point out is then noted, here I fully agree with the General Act to define the conditions of use of official vehicles. It's always the subject of discussion, the subject of questioning, of questioning. I'm not going to say that I'm surprised it's not there, but I have to express my surprise, because it's unimaginable in a huge system where it's not about five, ten vehicles, where it's hundreds, not to tell thousands of vehicles, that there's no clearly defined and orderly procedure who, how, when and whose account. But this report I'm saying would be, I'm not going to discuss the societies that are from, where a review was made in that part. However, I view this as a very useful tool primarily for supervisory committees and administrations. I agree the same thing was a question, and we got an answer from Mr. Klesic. It is a pity that these societies are actually the administrations that should be doing an analysis, but I hope that some new administrations will very well study these reports, and also find the State Commissions for Public Procurement Procedures and I believe that in the coming periods these companies will not only be more efficient at the benefit of all our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3244	Thank you. A distinguished representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinovic, appeared in the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3245	In order for this to be the right way for the supervisory boards, the administrations that are in some different compositions to really refer to this report, especially to see, therefore, which have been missed. Because even for minor failures, you get a conditional opinion. Therefore, those who gain unconditional opinion are truly impeccable and indeed a test of this authority, especially in those promises that people who have done quality work regardless of who has appointed them to be in need of Croatia and that they will rely on them. It would be good to see if people, and they're rare who get the unconditional opinion to stay in such places, or if they're just lighting up like a lighthouse that then disturbs some other story that actually is, and the other one's being told. However, here is a respected colleague when you talked about the way and the efficiency and the procurement and in saving funds some also talked about it, but you did not say it, but I think it is necessary to say when it is being respected, so the purchases and the spaces that were not necessary for some ministry, even though we are discussing companies owned by the city here. Maybe it was illustrative to mention even though the years had passed, it was a long time ago, that someone would say that it was so long ago that it probably didn't happen then, the text was, "Crazy squared!"in 2005. Until then, the Ministry of Justice, which I led, was located on the street of the Republic of Austria and paid for the space to believe or not 30 thousand kuna a year. The HDZ comes to power, moves to Djmanovo and pays instead of $30,000 € 4.5 million a year. In short, 170 times the monthly fee compared to the existing one. And really worthy of the title "Crazy squared!" ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3246	Dear MPs, thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3247	I'm just sorry that the review didn't say anything about it then.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3248	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Milorad Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3249	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Namely, colleagues Ingrid, the part where you replicated that these reports and new administrations would see, and I don't doubt that, of course. It should be like a guideline to them, some guidance for their further management of the company and, of course, if they're interested in studying it and reading it. Not only that report, but many others. But I also believe that some of these anomalies that happen whether it was a problem because you and I know very well that in 2005, government property management wasn't at that level, it didn't even know what was owned, I believe that maybe there was a discrepancy in that part. But certainly it's not good if there are state spaces that are functional, that can be used and that are for one kuna or whatever. I'm certainly always a supporter to get the authorities out there, whether it's the ministries, the agencies, but to pay expensive rents. But here we have witnessed these past few months that public companies will not be politically similar but that experts will enter, so here I hope it will be, and I believe you too.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3250	Thank you. We're moving on to individual debates. The word has a distinguished representative, Margareta Majeric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3251	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Namely, the State Audit Office carried out an audit of the effectiveness of the public procurement system in 7 companies owned by the Republic of Croatia for the period 2012 to 2014. All but one showed i.e. finds audits that they are devastating, that there have been a lot of irregularities in public procurement procedures and that we definitely cannot be satisfied no matter what it is for one past period, because surely that inefficiencies, intransparency that the way that was not effective spending of state budget money burdened both in the future of that company, and some of them were able to do better in particular if it was taken into account that this public procurement system was in line with the laws. The objectives of the review were to determine whether there were clear procedures in the procurement procedures, from the planning phase to the use of funds, whether goods, works and services were actually of an appropriate quality. We heard in the debate that the cheapest solution is always not the best, given the quality. And it is certain that, in that part, too, it is necessary to see whether an effective internal control system has been established to remove weaknesses and irregularities in public procurement procedures. Some of the things the review has identified, which indeed, when the entire report is read, as well as individual companies owned by the Republic of Croatia, but so in general this report, are indeed worrying. Therefore, the deadlines within which the organisational units were obliged to make proposals for the production plan are not fixed, the companies do not have written evidence on the basis of which the procurement plan would be drawn up. In the planning of the acquisition of the company, there were no possible risks for the implementation of public procurement procedures due to the submission of complaints, the purchase plans were not adopted before the beginning of the financial year, but therefore the business years already covered by the procurement plan are not a certain type of procurement procedure. The companies do not follow the results of the procurement plan and there is no indication of who is responsible for monitoring the public procurement plan. Then there's no benefit-and-cost analysis. The procurement was not clear, complete, non-transparent and unmistakable, etc., etc. On the basis of the procedures and established facts, the State Audit Office estimated that the public procurement system was only effective in one of these companies we heard that Plinaro and therefore needed further clarifications. The State Audit Office has made recommendations, some of which are that public procurement procedures are needed from the planning phase, the delivery of funds for use are defined in order to be effective and achieve their objective subject-matter must be described in a clear, unequivocal, complete and neutral manner in order to avoid problems and appeals. The contracts should, of course, be concluded with the tender documentation. For cases of delay in delivery, pay the contract fines as well. So those who have received these public procurements to do a certain job must certainly have a certain part of the responsibility. Then keep the contract register in accordance with the provisions of the law, analyse the price of goods, works and services of related companies and compare them with market prices. The State Audit Office also pointed out that these recommendations, I believe, were indeed so, would contribute and hopefully contribute to better business decisions, to greater transparency. Transparency is often said a lot, but we still have the result of the audit that money actually fell apart because of bad business decisions, a higher level of public responsibility. Therefore, it is certain that all those who are presidents of the administration, members of the management and supervisory board who must oversee the system and public procurement and in general the business of companies owned by the Republic of Croatia should do so in the manner of a good economic operator because it is public money. Saving resources for the purchase of goods, services, works, as this would primarily affect the efficiency of the public procurement system. On the other hand, we'd have savings that didn't happen here. And finally. Here is a colleague who mentioned the rent of a business space from 2005, I must point out that when she mentioned the move of the ministry it immediately rang in my head Zagreb Tower. So it's almost incredible and probably in developed democratic European societies it's impossible to, in addition to 764 empty state spaces, so I'm DUDI, but later on, the former head of DUDI retired when he said he didn't approve of the move to Zagreb Tower Ministry of Environmental Protection pointed out that it was an illegal move. The costs of this move are officially available, I believe that we will have one such report here in the Croatian Parliament and that we will also be able to discuss it. What was therefore available to the media and to all those who were not involved in the process was more than 6 million kuna and therefore about 40% more than the Ministry of Environmental Protection paid for the space in question and over 60% more than would have cost the move of the Ministry of Environmental Protection to some of the state spaces. So we have on one side over 700 empty state spaces that are going down, that are destroyed, that are not being invested in. A completely incomprehensible business decision is going to rent private elite space Zagreb Tower at astronomical prices. So this proves that both these members and presidents of the administration, the state-owned companies had no one to look up to. Because when they saw one minister in the Government of the Republic of Croatia waste public money, that in moments of the biggest economic crisis, at moments when over 100,000 people moved out of Croatia, when over 300 thousand people were unemployed every third unemployed person was under 30 years old, highly educated and he was wasting public money, then they thought why would we then respect the public procurement process. It's these messages and it's that political responsibility. And I believe that we will have a session of the Croatian Parliament and a review report related to the move of the Ministry of Environmental Protection. In any case, I support this report, I thank the State Office for the revision of the report, and I hope that the recommendations will be respected so that business will be better, better quality and that public money will not fall apart and on the other hand that citizens and citizens will have a better and better service, so definitely because of the savings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3252	Thank you. Right on line, distinguished representative Milorad Batinić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3253	Thank you. Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Mađerić has offered me your statement that, or I think I heard it correctly, you said that in these companies, they meant that they did not get a positive opinion that the money had fallen apart. I didn't read it out of the audit, and I didn't say any financial indicators, so to say, that's the assumption that all the procedures were prescribed, it would probably be more rational. But again, I say conjecture because even then, it doesn't mean that society would be doing it rationally as it can. In fact, this is a very good report and more or less, I say we all discussed the same thing when we stuck to the subject. What I would and wasn't the main subject, were the business decisions made by the management whether they were good. It wasn't the subject, or matter of this revision. They are mentioned on the way in the context of public procurement procedures, transparency, etc. It's something that, I say, always retreats, always goes a little too wide with some conclusions, with some findings, derivatives or whatever we want, but O.K., this is a political pay phone. I say, I'd like a review of the efficiency of the management of certain companies. That's one segment. Just one segment. I agree, and there's a lot to read, and there's a lot to read. But it's not like the whole thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3254	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Margareta Mađeric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3255	Thank you very much. Kolega Batinić if we have a report in which we have more than 30 recommendations made by the State Audit Office and over 30-ac means things that the State Audit Office has established without being in accordance with the law and with all the regulations that companies owned by the Republic of Croatia should adhere to, then we can conclude that the money has fallen apart, that they have not done business in a transparent manner and that they have not achieved their main objective, which is the efficiency of their business. And concerning the unconditional opinion of a company of the merchants, the co-legislators argued whether they would remain. So the SDP's power with the coalition partners and your HNS is regardless of whether someone has done business unconditionally or not changed all administrations to both the leaders and the members of the administration and has not seen the criteria of expertise at all but the sole criterion of political similarity.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3256	Thank you. And we still have an individual debate, distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3257	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. And another diagnosis. The state audit continuously determines the diagnosis without error. But what does it mean that a doctor knows the diagnosis of a disease? This is of no value to itself if, after the diagnosis of a doctor, he does not take what is necessary. All the findings of the State Audits so far and most of all suggest these findings in commercial companies owned by the Republic of Croatia, that surgery is required after diagnosis. And we avoid that surgery all the time. And we need to tell the difference between what's for the cut and what's not. We need to distinguish the results from the results. For example, it says in the report no business plan has been published on the web pages, failure. But what's the consequence? Not so big, almost irrelevant, I don't want anything, not a single irregularity to be derailed, but we have further achievements deviating from the plans. And compared to this, it's minor, this is a little bit stronger. After that, you determine the expenditures higher than planned. Oh, that's something else, there already needs a surgical knife. The expenses can't be, they can't be bigger than planned. Whoever does this is wrong not only about the business plan, about a lot of things. Just before we heard it here, various governments, shifts and ministries were mentioned. It's hard not to believe that everything the State Review has established at the Ministry of Environmental and Nature Protection and that there is no surgical knife, and it's diagnosed with cancer. The Ministry rented an additional 104m2. So, not only are they moving from more unfavourable, from more favourable to unfavourable, but it's even more leased instead of 3945 another 1041m2 with the excuse to sublet it. So far, no sublets. What do you call it, direct damage? With these phenomena gone, it's a minimal illusion of an orderly state. Imagine that the ministry is installing a contract to lease a clause if the contract is broken prematurely by a million and five hundred thousand kunas will pay the renter's fee. Is that normal? I won't answer. But if in the last two years of leases he cancels, then he'll just pay 900 grand in compensation. The ministry spent 531716 kn to edit this leased space. So, apart from the orderly, he goes into a mess and he still spends 531 grand. He pays additional and storage of archival construction in companies of about 6 and a half kuna per month per meter, imagine and the length of the meter, the archival structure is arranged per square metre for 1,500 kuna, which was provided in the old space as part of the lease. If we add to this the Environmental Protection Fund that is moving, which a colleague of Ivana is moving from Xavier to the Tower, which he invested in that space of 24 million kuna and then after 24 million kunas invested, leaves 36 parking spaces in his property that he does not use and pays for that reserve 86400 kuna per year and moves into that famous Tower. He paid 12.22 euros in Xavier, moving to a space that pays 15.87 euros 30% more. The area per employee while they were at the Xavier Environmental Protection Fund had 13.75 m2 per employee. It's a little bit you know, 13 square meters it's a little bit per employee. They go to a space of 20 square meters, 19.48 m2 per employee in the tower private. What the People's Journals are doing here says the same thing. In the hall in Kukuljanov, they invest 8.3 million kuna, and before the investment, they did not make any analysis. What kind of cost-effectiveness analysis? That's according to that sectional paradigm there is no, cost-effectiveness analysis. Let's do it? We'll make it down, we'll invest 8.3 million kunas in the hall in Kukuljanovo, but we won't move down production, we'll move production to Krapina anyway. What do we need Kukuljanovo for? We spent money down there without even checking the adequateness of the space. National newspaper, ordered two different investment studies with different conclusions regarding the choice of location for production. One says it's a better river, the other says it's a better Krapina. And they invest in Rijeka and then rent space in Krapina and a commercial space lease is only published on the web pages. God forbid someone should answer with an offer because they can disrupt that already pre-set and plotted, elaborated offer. Machines for producing paper confectionery while building a hall in Rijeka were already in Krapina. So the machines were already planned upstairs and it was known that space would be rented but we'll be spending money in the river. A month before the announcement of the invitation to tender for the rent of business space in Krapina machines were already in the area of Krapina. You'd say a man listening to this if this was a story. No, these are just quotes from the State Audit report. This is not just a moral immersion, this is a mere, total spiritual blindness that prevailed when it comes to using state money. Now, after this, we can only call for better days, but by calling for better days, we don't make everyday life better. We have to do something. And I'm going to repeat that it's time for the Department of the People's Newspaper, for the Ministry of Environment to come to the Parliament and answer these questions. And until these circumstances are cleared around such an irrational one that I don't use any other word of spending state money we won't do anything. Until administrations are replaced immediately after such findings are published on the same day, until the DORH reacts Croatia cannot step forward and let alone do more than that. And that's why we sink every day, we sink, we don't take one step forward, two steps back, we just go back. I fear that such business as the example of the National Journals, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the Environmental Protection Fund, is breaking the Croatian dream about the Croatian state and dirtying the dream. This is really dirt on the Croatian dream of the Croatian state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3258	Thank you. We've got plenty of replicas. The first one is the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3259	Now you colleagues are in a position not to make this Croatian dream a Croatian nightmare, so please answer me immediately here will the person who has won the head of the RS-owned company who has received the unconditional opinion stay in place or will not? He wants to do a surgical knife or a guillotine, so it's faster. That's one thing. When you talk here about the irrational spending of money on the move of the Ministry of the Environment, a new minister, so you agree, you confuse and deconcentrate the general public in terms of statements you give as a coalition authority. The new minister said this space is more economical, it's all in one place. You said it was more expensive per metre. So I'm asking you where you were when this crazy square happened and the Ministry of Justice moved from the Republic of Austria to Dezhman Street where the lease was 170 times bigger than on the street of the Republic of Austria? That's the same thing you're talking about here and these divisors. And I agree with you, too, because it's a big mistake, something wrong. This is where the public needs an explanation. But the new minister says I'll keep doing it. I think you heard that. Give us an explanation if you can say or influence them with the attitude of the Patriot coalition, then because you are saying something else, the ministers speak quite differently or thirdly.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3260	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3261	My colleagues, Antičević, are not on the agenda of the ministers, but we are discussing the report on the effectiveness of the public procurement system in trade societies owned by the Republic of Croatia. And I'm reading the results of the State Audits, and I'm not commenting on any statements, and neither is the Minister. And everything I said, I just read what it says in the report. All that's written is that it's harmful, that the extra cost is all that's written in the report. It's not a single one, I didn't even add an adjective or an epithet, I didn't just add the naked facts. When you speak of anyone who has an unconditional opinion to remain in a commercial society in the lead, did he come there instead of someone who had an unconditional opinion or who had an unfavorable opinion? We'll ignore that. How he came here is how he should go. If he came in so it was an unfavourable opinion and now he has, then we can talk. And what about those who didn't get a report because the state audit wasn't in control, it wasn't in the audit? What do we do with them? How did the leaders come four years ago? Worried about the state's audits? Although I support that every person continues their work if she professionally and professionally does her job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3262	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Giovanni Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3263	Dear colleague Maric, I did not answer my word to express dissatisfaction with what you said but only you said at the end of your review that we had to change something. I volunteered for the debate and said that we are constantly dealing with the consequences and we are not dealing with the causes, and in your opening part you were quite picturesque. And in fact, we've been hitting on each other the whole time, we've been squandering each other, and we've found that the situation and the state of the country isn't good. Now this controversy and this debate, hopefully even the chairman won't mind me, I'll go outside the box a little bit where I'd say if we want to change something then we have to start by ourselves, so I'll make two comparisons. First, the state budget and the local budget, the income and expenditure difference as regards the state budget expenditure can be thick above the planned revenues. At the local level, God did not give you, because according to the Budget Law, you must have a balanced situation in the lip between income and expenditure. The second thing, we're talking about wastefulness, intransparency, I ask myself, I ask you, who in the state of Croatia, who in this council knows when any minister in any of the government's councils has entrusted us, under what conditions, under which conditions, and under which we will repay all future generations. If we want people to change something, let's go from ourselves. Now we have an ideal situation. Let's not transfer responsibility to others, be self-critical, but let's install two things that are constantly ignored by ethics and morality.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3264	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3265	I agree with you colleagues when you talk about the differences in the local budget and the state budget, I agree with that one, we can say both injustice and indifference. When you said let's change or let's not just switch to another one, I wasn't switching to anything, I'm just holding on to the subject and I've never shut up a single topic, no matter what the report was about anyone, I've never hesitated to praise the findings and the report, but I don't criticise it. It's not a transfer. Today it's about HZ CARGO, Punic, Infrastructure, the National Newspaper, and we're talking about them. As far as I'm concerned... What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Right, because I referred to it because that's what happened before, I just referred to myself... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We'll have coffee later, and we'll discuss it, but now I'm going to answer my colleagues. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Downstairs: Please do not interfere with the speaker.]] Dinner can. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I agree we should change, but how? Let's start by changing the bad guys. Let's get this started. For example, I will say today, in one, here in particular in the Croatian Post Office, I don't care who's on the Supervisory Board, I don't care who's in power, I don't care who's in charge, I've been paid a bonus of two management members 2 million and 700 thousand kuna and the results are lost. It is for the Board of Supervisors and Administration to be replaced and that they can never participate in or manage anything on behalf of the State and no matter who it is. So the same person who managed the National Journal, who managed all these institutions or companies where there were serious irregularities or failures, especially where there was an unfavourable opinion. Where there is an unfavourable view of automation, resolution should take place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3266	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Maro Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3267	Dear colleague Maric, I actually just wanted to congratulate you on your presentation. You were talking about the perfect diagnosis given by the State Audit Office but you gave the perfect recipe for all those who are irresponsiblely dealing with taxpayers' money, which is a criminal persecution. I am just coming from Dubrovnik where a theme session of the City Council was held the other day on the subject of the Lazareti complex in Dubrovnik where around 40 million kunas of public money were spent, i.e. money secured by HBOR loan, and that the public procurement procedure was not conducted at all under the Public Procurement Act, nor was it the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures since 2012 when the first contract was concluded with the contractor and until 2015 there was no knowledge at all, even though the annexes of these contracts and the negotiating procedures were also taking place. So we have an absurd situation with us in Dubrovnik, and I believe in a lot of places to do the work with us, to do the work, to let the space go and then to conclude public procurement contracts. What is it, a crime? And until Croatia and Croatian citizens become self-aware and send one such message to all those who are irresponsible towards public money, there will be no happiness. Croatia needs one discipline and the best message is exactly what I'm talking about and what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3268	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3269	Thank you, dear colleague Kristic. Yeah, I'll do it again when you've diagnosed. Well, the findings of the state audit are too valuable. They're drawing us what we need to do. But it's my impression so far, this is the impression that the government is not reading the state audits and that it's time to start reading them and taking certain actions. That's my impression, maybe wrong. But what's not an impression is that diagnosis. Because it's important who determines the diagnosis. If that's what you or I said, you told someone there, something's wrong, and that's not a diagnosis. I can put my hand on my forehead and say I have a fever, I'm sick. It's not a diagnosis, I only trust a doctor when I'm diagnosed. And the only person I trust in this country is the State Audit when it determines what's going on somewhere. I don't trust a minister or a board president or a representative or anyone. All I trust is the official document, the State Audit report. And we don't just have to believe it, we have to accept it as a fact and take all that to remove it, that it never happens again. The state review is one of the healthiest institutions of the Republic of Croatia and we do not use it, and we should. And in making a budget, the state budget if only the instructions were listened to and carefully read state audits would be different. Here is the opinion of the DUR that the Fund for Protection in Taking up Business Space was not managed by the principles of sound financial management. This is beautifully wrapped in cellophane that damage has been done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3270	Next replica, distinguished representative Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3271	Dear Vice President, I congratulate you on this exhaustive report you've said so far. Do we need to discuss this without needing to know whether you are without need, whether we are wasting time here and nothing is happening. I don't think this is all from yesterday, that it's been a long, long time, that it's been happening. The same thing happened, I don't know that much more data, but I hear that the square of the house in Gunja was flooded somewhere around 2,000 euros. Is that possible? That I publicly declare, is that possible, whether this review should be investigated and how much it cost. All I know is that all the wealthy businessmen are the ones who worked with the state. Whoever didn't work with the state was tortured and barely survived. I congratulate you once again and thank you for what you're investigating and what we're going to do, what we need to explore. I just don't know when it's gonna be over and when it's really gonna start to seriously think that some certain people who do these things are being brought to justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3272	Replica response, distinguished representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3273	Thank you very much. Comrade Misic, you are wondering if this is all in vain and unnecessary what we are doing. I don't think so, I think it's useful. I think we're opening up the possibility of a different political action. So if it's our responsibility, and then I know it at least for myself from now on, whenever I find out about an unfavourable opinion, I'm going to ask for a solution to that administration as long as it doesn't happen. Here and now I am starting today asking the Government to resolve, of course, by all procedures, by respecting the administration of the People's Newspaper, because, today, the National Journal is the most recent example of unfavourable opinion and bad business, bad decisions. Even where praises are made, such as the public's praise about the results of Podravka, and the results are devastating and the result is in Podravka 1500 people less employees and all profit is based on reduced costs for employees and some other administrative and accounting actions, not the result of increased incomes and increased sales. But the one who dares to invest in a hall at one location, while at the same time bringing machines to another location, has yet to announce a tender for the rental of a business space from private persons at a completely different location, cannot manage any trading company in Croatia as well as the Post Office, as it cannot with HBOR, as it can not, and there are institutions that do their job well, companies that do excellent business. But there are those that the State Audit finds unreal behavior, unknowingly, blatantly, unrelentingly, should be replaced immediately and never again be managed by someone else. Let him deal with himself when they're so big-time knowers, let them invest their money and run their own companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3274	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Darko Paric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3275	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Marić, after all these congratulations from his colleagues at the MostA at the presentation, it seems to me that I have only left to come and kiss you there and that's it. But unlike them, I think you totally missed the subject while you were on the stand. We've even been thinking about doing some damage to the Rules of Procedure here, but we've decided to let you say it all the way. Yes, what has intrigued me very much to report is, in principle, when you said about the People's Newspaper that they were doing the project or the factory any way you want, that they didn't do the cost-effectiveness study, and that's actually a failure that I have to say if that's really how it is, I'm not a businessman or a big manager, but basically I agree. It's certainly not good, it can't be practice and it can't happen. That's why someone needs to answer some questions after all. But I fully support you when you say you've never said anything, when you say you won't shut up from today, so I'm asking you for one more thing so you don't shut up here with me. Namely, the 10th item of the agenda Report on the effectiveness of the financing of the construction and management of sports halls, here is a mega-eclutant example of how something has been done by some who should really also be condemned, so I invite you where mega-projects have been made that will get us into the dubiosis for the next 30 and how many years. I quote, "A review among other things has not established a cost-effectiveness study or justification for building halls in Poreč, Split and Zadar. Prior to the decision to finance the construction of a city sports hall in Varazdin according to the public-private partnership model, no realistically identified risks taken by the city of Varazdin and no agreement of the Ministry of Finance to conclude the contract have been obtained." With time running out, the year is 2007, the government of HDZ is Prime Minister Ivo Sanader these four cities that I've led you to today are convulsing in debt, and I'm going to feel like I'm still about 30 years old. I'm from Split, and I know what this Spaladium arena looks like physically today, unfinished, disaster. I know that for the next 30 years we're paying a month it seems like a million-and-a-half kuna just because someone didn't think to do a cost-effectiveness study or justification of building the same halls. Well, since it's really irresponsible to treat taxpayers' money here, since you're so transparent, eclatant and consistent, I invite you when there's a point on the 10th agenda to discuss this point together so that we can agree and be consistent. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3276	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3277	Thank you very much. I don't know why you should be bringing up your colleague Pajic's breach of the Rules of Procedure because I didn't endanger the Rules of Procedure with anything and I didn't even raise anyone that it was you or anyone else. Because Parliament still has little freedom to connect the subject. But I'm not running away from the darkness. However, when you have called in advance, or called me no more than you have called, wait for the item on the 10th agenda and you will hear what I have to say about it. Then we'll talk. I'm sure I can tell you that I'm going to sign up and talk about that point. But I didn't say there was no study, the state audit claimed it. Because I haven't been audited and I don't know if there's a studio or not, I really don't know. I read that for the hall in Kukuljanov, I copied it from the findings, they invested 8.3 million before the investment and there was no cost analysis. That's how it's written. Therefore, anyone who does so cannot manage regardless of the hall or hall, regardless of the company or agency. Because the best example is that the State Office made a material cost per employee. So if you could see that National Audit Office analyst that I even have it here and I can read it correctly, the agency has 201 thousand kunas of material costs per employee. Another 70, third 65, one 45, one 42, DUUDI 80, State Audit Office 20. Imagine 20 times as many. But it's not the 200 grand that's the biggest. We even have 400 grand to spend material costs per employee. We're still just copying that data. That's why I don't think anyone who spends that much on an employee unusually above average could possibly be the head of those agencies, even if they're called, I'll shut up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3278	And the last replica, the esteemed representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3279	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Marić, you are amazed at the National Journal and the find of the revision of the National Newspaper. It's all clear here. On behalf of the people, the national newspaper was run by the Croatian People's Party. It's all very well connected. And it happened that Kukuljanov Hall ended up in Krapina. And the reason, again, some groups within the HNS argued, and then this part of northwestern Croatia was stronger than the part of the Primorje-Gorski County. And there goes the hall. the investment, and the explanation didn't stop the machines in the hall because they were supposed to be in the shape of the letter U, that I'm not wrong of the soul. Was that the reason? We don't know, but it's an explanation and it goes a few million in the wind. And I guess now that the competition is this one I don't know what it's called, the most famous are these Aunt Violets, so I guess the People's Newspaper is dealing with it now as a basic activity even though they were for something else. But good. And then we hear all kinds of explanations. We also had a discussion here about the Ministry of Protection. The minister spends instead of 61 grand as much as he had for parking 612, just add one zero. And nothing to anyone. I asked him to be replaced here but they didn't want him to be replaced because he's good, he's doing good, and everything he's done is great. I say good, let them change the people, he has replaced the people. And now we get to that story, we listen to it from the left there, your colleagues from the opposition, why would they replace any of them when they're all perfect. And already there's 1,000% more of them now than there are left of those former government people in their government as soon as they got there, now there's 1,000% more. What are the assistants, what are they in public enterprises, etc. But then again, why would they change when they're perfect? Because they're all experts, of course, but when we see what they're doing, they're probably not. And we come up with a question and what does the DORH do? Here I come to the temptation to say let them in silence work maybe surprise us. Because it's just that as many examples as we've set here in the past, nothing has happened, and I doubt anything will happen especially if it comes out in the light of these discussions that we have that all of this has been done in the name of antifascism. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3280	And a reply to the replica, distinguished representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3281	Thank you very much. I'm not surprised, I'm not a poet, I'm not a poet. I'm just saying that, and otherwise I'm reading and writing and talking in my life. And I speak at least, but I'm not surprised at it. When you hear hooves expect a horse, you can't expect anything else. When it says in the names, "the adequateness of the area in Rijeka" is not checked, so it says in the findings, so that means that the space does not fit. ... in Kukuljanovo, more specifically in Kukuljanovo. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And they know he's not answering. So they sent the machines up to Krapina before. But in what space? A space that they know in advance that they're going to rent it and this one's still editing. Is it under... I'm just surprised when you mentioned Aunt Violet, or Aunt Violet's owner used to sit with me like this in class. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm surprised that when the People's Newspapers were so progressive in ideas that they were able to compete with toilet paper that they didn't and Roto Paper, so there's a little bit more hala to be made, bigger production, bigger contracts would be and more damage would be so they would achieve what they wanted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3282	Thank you. That's how we exhausted all the speakers. The promoter will not have a final address. That's what we're done with today's work. We'll be back at 9.30 tomorrow. The point with which we begin is the Report on the financial audit of political parties, independent representatives and members of the representative bodies of the local and regional (regional) self-government elected from the list of voters for 2014. Thank you and good-bye to tomorrow. The session was interrupted at 17.10 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-24-0.u3283	The following is the Report on the effectiveness of the public procurement system carried out in companies owned by the Republic of Croatia. Reporter is State Audit Office. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The report on the effectiveness of the public procurement system carried out in commercial companies owned by the Republic of Croatia is accepted.". Please vote. The vote is over. 102 votes in favour, 1 against. I find that most of the votes have come to the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Good morning! I suggest we start slowly, so please take your seats. Today we continue with as we predicted with the point - Report on the financial audit of independent political parties and members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government chosen from the list of voting groups for 2014. The report shall be submitted to the State Audit Office on the basis of Article 9. Law on the State Audit Office and Article 32 The Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. The government delivered an opinion. Does the applicant's representative want to further explain the report? Yeah. Here's the chief state auditor, Mr. Ivan Klešić.
