ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u7278	... A five-minute break. [[Specially enabled.]] I would like to talk about the case of the refusal of the purchase of Croatian state bonds and the consequences that may potentially have on the implementation of the 2016 budget and the scenarios ahead of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u7279	Okay, thank you. Anyone else? Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u7280	... On behalf of the HNS Club, with a desire to talk about the government's work in the last month, where there have been phone calls since the 8th session of Government 5. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u7281	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Juhas.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u7282	President-in-Office, I request a break of 10 minutes to say something about the Council of Europe Advisory Committee's report on the implementation of the Convention on the Protection of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u7283	On behalf of the National Minorities Club?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u7284	On behalf of the National Minorities Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u7285	Anyone else? Dear Representative Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u7286	Dear President, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, I am looking for a five-minute break to discuss the possible involvement of individual ministers in the P.R. services.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u7287	We didn't hear the last word, see that, huh?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u7288	To discuss the possible involvement of the executive authority in the work of certain P.R.s. Agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u7289	Okay. Anyone else? If not, I'll see you at 9.45. Thank you. It's 9:35 p.m. Here's a colleague and a colleague. We're running out of time, so I'm going to ask that the first one on behalf of the HSU Club, Stipe Petrina, speak to the esteemed representative of Stipe Petrina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u7291	Your Honor, I thank you. My colleagues and colleagues. I would like for the first time in Croatia's history that Croatian government bonds have failed to sell on the international capital market. So, that news, unfortunately, is here amongst us who are in charge, so we've passed the beatings, I see the assembly half-empty, no one cares. No one wants to know why it happened. So, the statement by the finance and finance ministers is that the ransom was rejected, I repeat, for the first time in history, I think that we are the only country that has experienced this from foreign investors or as I like to say the lenders, the bonds of the Republic of Croatia have been rejected. It should be pointed out that last year, the debt or shares that, the bonds being placed, were given at an interest rate of 3% and even less for a time. Going to London, the finance minister failed to charge the Republic of Croatia for an additional billion euros, which is about 7.5 billion kuna. Why not, why investors or creditors did not want to do as explained, unstable political situations were taken, i.e. to buy out the bonds of the Republic of Croatia. What are the scenarios why it wasn't bought out. The first scenario is possible for the HDZ's political pressure on the Most to convince them that the situation in the country is serious, that it cannot be tasked with a possible fracture of the Republic of Croatia's budget and this creates a very ugly picture of the country's largest party today, Mr HDZ, which thus demonstrates that they are eventually and ready for the country's bankruptcy scenario to remain in power of any kind. The prime minister when he was with investors says investors are optimistic towards us, of course they are optimistic because by placing the bonds of a state at far higher prices on the money market, he is very optimistic about the one who invests, or the one who buys it. The Minister of Finance has denied us an extremely important thing, which is whether or not the bonds offered to him were at an interest rate of 5.6, which is at one point double what was owed a year ago. Why do you say that? Who gets a higher interest rate? To those whose bonds are very risky or potentially not chargeable, and this introduces us into a very ugly scenario, whether investors who should buy those shares, are more aware of what parliamentary representatives know. But let's go back to the 7.5 billion kuna that are missing at this point in the state budget. It's ladies and gentlemen 15, 06 of the budget's expenditure. When you divide it, that percentage with the number of days a year gets a 23.9-day number. Does this mean that the state budget will be in banana 24, round to 24 days, and that the state will not be able to meet its obligations and to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that it will not meet its obligations to the users of the state budget, that it will not be able to comply with the creditors and whether this is the introduction to the country's bankruptcy scenario? With this more today, the Republic of Croatia should be a much cheaper mission of money that is owed because we have two indicators that are very optimistic. The first is optimistic economic growth in two last quarter and tourist season ahead of us unfortunately it is the largest economic branch in the Republic of Croatia. This brings us all to the seriousness of the moment, so I would like to see that in this honorable House, either the Prime Minister or the Prime Minister or the Finance Minister, because they will have a strong impact on the credit debt of citizens and on the increase in interest to individuals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u7292	Thank you very much. The next is on behalf of the HNS Club to take the esteemed representative Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u7293	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the CNS, we decided to talk in mind the fact that in the last month, the government of its eight sessions, which it had five, had been telephoned and three times had the opportunity to see each other. As Honorable colleague Petrina said for the first time in Croatia, I will use that entrance, for the first time in Croatia, we have a few things. For the first time in Croatia, we had a minister who was not allowed to attend the first cabinet session, and there was no meeting. For the first time in Croatia, we have a session that was scheduled and 20 ministers arrived at that session and the prime minister was not there. So this debate of mine can have the title "Where is the Prime Minister?" because you have the opportunity to see together on the portals that the only joke remains permanent in the Croats, and then they have polls where it is or isn't. But let's just drop it all. Let's see how serious this is. The relationship between the government and the Parliament is a system of combined vessels. The system of combined vessels means exactly how much the government works, the Parliament does. And look at the agenda that was for this week. Of the 60 points of the 13-point agenda were proposals from the government, the other proposals from the representatives' clubs and reports were made. With a session that was telephony yesterday, we only got one amendment and we got a relationship with that impelation. It's just not good. As you know, I worked in the previous government, I was one of those who thought we should do better, more, that we had to be in some things more determined. However, when I see what is happening to us, I can only say all the praises of what we have done. Phone sessions were when it came to amendments and when it came to the summer that the canader had to go to put out a fire in another country. And this government is working in a way that doesn't want to be seen. Even when they're forced to see two vice presidents, they turn their heads to one another. That's no way to do it. In life, it's no shame to say I don't know. It's good to say I don't know and listen to the one who knows, but what's not good and what's a shame to pretend like he knows and has consequences. Equally, you have the opportunity to see and see all the indicators. These indicators that are now and we are talking about, which is GDP growth, exports, industrial production is the result of the government and the work of the previous government. The result of this government can only be seen at the end of the year. However, it cannot be the result of the government if it does not talk to each other, if it is not negotiated, if there are no open, closed sessions of the government, but are phone sessions of the government. The phone session works the way the government's secretary phone calls individual ministers says that's the topic, whether you're in or out. It's not going well. I'm sure there's no one in this assembly who doesn't want this Croatia well. I'm sure there's no one who doesn't feel bad about it, no malice. There's only grief and discontent. With all of us, you can only see grief and discontent because you're not moving forward. Or this government says, the previous government did everything great, they're great laws, we don't have anything to do here, but we're gonna phone each other and see each other sometimes. I'd say it in a vivid way. You know, the patient's in a coma. On the sick bed, it's all blinking red. The family is ready to end. Please put above the sick bed a big sign “Don’t Resuscitate!” Do not revive what comes to life and prepare to admit those who do not know that some things have not been prepared and given the opportunity to do things for those who want, who are ready and who want to benefit this Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u7294	Thank you very much. The Honorable Representative, Stipe Petrina, has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Now they're going to tell us what he's in, which article of the Rules of Procedure is injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u7295	Infringement of the article on maintaining order in the assembly. And while I'm in charge of the assembly, the President of the Parliament is in charge. While I was exhibiting, and while my colleague was exhibiting, it's a very big mess, it's lame and it's walking. Gentlemen, either get to work or go home. But if anyone here is showing courtesy, don't let them swarm your foreheads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u7296	So, of course the Rules of Procedure is not hurt. But I agree with my colleague, Petrin, that's a question I'd say politely, that when someone is saying to be heard. Or if you don't care at least to keep your mouth shut. But it's a matter of decency, and I'm asking that we all act that way. Now, on behalf of the National Minorities Club, they're going to say something to the esteemed representative of Shandor Juhas.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u7297	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I agree with Mr. Petrin, we should listen to each other a little bit. But there are parliaments and where they fight, we're not in that situation yet, and that's a good thing. The National Minority Club feels the need to meet the Croatian public and your colleagues with the opinion of the Council of Europe Advisory Committee on the Implementation of the Convention on the Protection of National Minorities, which was published on Wednesday and which is so little bypassed. We usually have and our media usually have a custom, that what others might say about us, so it's a little negative or there's some kind of negative connotation to either hear it or somehow hide it. So when we go out there, when we go looking for money, then we wonder why there's nothing. The Council of Europe Advisory Committee for the Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities in its report praises the existing good legislative framework for national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. However, the Committee notes that these laws are often not implemented and are not implemented where they should actually be implemented operationally, so at the level of local self-government units. We have warned this problem many times, however unsuccessfully. Croatia is resented that there are not enough employees of national minorities in state services, representation of members of national minorities in the public administration, the judiciary remains low, and repeated recommendations by the Ombudsman's staff on the need for effective implementation of local minority employment have not been implemented and we know that in fact the report of the Ombudsman has passed. The Committee also notes that in some places minority rights are not respected in language and letter. We talked a lot last year about Vukovar, and I wouldn't talk about it anymore. But I have data from the other day to say the problem of issuing IDs appears in the Belgrade-Belgrade County in the Hungarian language. The Council of Europe also believes that hate speech is on the rise and has become acceptable in the media and political speech. Anti-minor rhetoric and prejudices appear in the report to dominate largely in public debates on issues concerning minority rights, resulting in some giving up on seeking their rights and fear of negative consequences. The wave of nationalism and political radicalisation has a negative impact on minority rights, especially in those areas that have been hit hard in the war, the report said. The Council of Europe therefore recommends a systematic and rapid condemnation of nationalist and anti-human rhetoric in political discourse and media, effective investigations and sanctioning of all cases of crime and hate speech. In conclusion, the Committee asks the Government to devote itself to minority rights as an integral part of its national and international obligations, oppose the reviving of nationalism and to promote openness to respect for diversity in society. The Council of Europe Advisory Committee considers that incidents in which hate speech is present are not only on the rise but are also acceptable by some highly ranked political leaders and members of local authorities themselves engaging in rhetoric that is offensive to a part of the population and can trigger interethnic tensions. Most observers associate this deterioration with the deterioration of external pressure after EU accession. The Committee calls for the inclusion of minority cultures in the integral part of the common cultural policy as an integral and valuable part of Croatia's heritage of diversity. And we've talked about it many times, but we've witnessed it going in a different direction. National minority organisations should not be prevented from accessing general sources of funding for culture because of the resources allocated separately to preserve their specific identity. All of these are the things we talked about several times, all of these are the things that we talked about last year, and if we see in what direction minority rights have started in this year and under this government we can hope for a far worse report next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u7298	Thank you very much. And now I will ask on behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Petar Škoric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u7299	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I have come forward because of possible doubts about the political financial octopus in the media area, i.e. about the operation Grisli that we learned yesterday about what all Croatian media are saying today that one PR agency is offering to organise meetings with ministers and other state officials from one political option that works in the field of justice, home affairs, people in the construction sector are also mentioned, as well as the creation of media affairs that will no longer lead to criminal charges by the State's Attorney's office. How is it actually possible that a PR agency that represents a single political option in the campaign is later using ministers and the same options for different political interventions and accounts for the launch of the affair and even the prosecution by the State's Attorney's office? Or should I explain, how is it possible that an agency that works for a single political option offers services to persons with financial compensation? The highlight of morbidity is asking for money to raise criminal charges against people. I don't know this case, is it recorded in any other democratic country? What we can say is that school is an example of a corrupt relationship. So to clarify, if the PR agency working for the MOST provides that the ministers of the MOST quota use their monopoly as ministers and discretionary decision-making and proposal rights and if contact with the minister of services that has its own price on the business market and if you participate in getting contact with the minister or provide about that service, then it is quite clear, primarily because of the political context that there can be nothing else here but a corruption affair. The content of the contract, I think, is unnecessary to burden you here, but the question is raised, it is not only one political option but also HRT as a public service for all Croatian citizens. So the question is, is HRT in this affair? So I would ask the head of the HRT program how could Grizzly PR have put on paper the organisation of a particular political show on HRT? Isn't HTV a public service for all Croatian citizens and not individual political options? Is it normal for taxpayers to watch TV subscribers watch TV shows contracted by the PR company to muddle someone? And I'd ask V.D. Director Kovačić, or I would ask him to examine on the basis of these indications whether he has a mysterious double guesting in the pre-election time of the then mayor of the small Croatian town, in connection with possible corruption between Grizzli and HRT management and editors of individual shows? Unfortunately, we have too many indications here that suggest a completely unacceptable action, political media corruption of unprecedented proportions. It would be understandable that the State Attorney's Office, which is mentioned in this contract, hastily checked these allegations as well as whether Grizzly or his owner Bauer worked for the SDP and if he did have similar contracts at that time? Also, when I mention the State's Attorney's Office I commend his zeal these days for launching proceedings because of suspicion of the justification of harmful and unnecessary contracts for PR services and public opinion research in a small town of 80,000 kuna. Since we are already so zealous, I believe that according to the same principles and criteria, we need to examine both the justification and the harmfulness of public service contracts for PR services, the research of public change contracted by state companies and ministries over the past four years in amounts of not a few tens of thousands of kunas, but several hundred thousand kunas and several million kunas. At the end of all of us, the Croatian public is being asked a question that requires an answer, who was all anointed by Grizzly's paw?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u7300	Thank you very much. A colleague of Strenja-Linic has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What article of the Rules of Procedure is injured, and why? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u7301	I hope you will be adequately rewarded for what you have said.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u7302	A colleague who's in violation of the Rules of Procedure? My colleagues Strenja-Linić have now abused the Institute of Injuries of the Rules of Procedure and you know it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u7303	I haven't been able to find after these lies and attacks that will obviously be well rewarded by the point to which I call myself.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10902	I'm saying again we can deal with anything anyone says we lie about or dramatically disagree, but if we have a Rules of Procedure, then we can't abuse it. I'm asking you not to do it anymore. Okay, well, that concludes this morning's usual session, so we'd move on to the agenda. On the agenda today... Okay, thank you for letting me keep talking. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Today's agenda: - Report on the exercise of the right to free legal aid and spending of funds in 2015. The report shall be submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 46. The law on free legal aid. The material was delivered to you in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received their reports at the session. Does the applicant's representative want to further explain the report? Yeah. ... Excuse me, does he want a representative of the board? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But you're later. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's all right. Here you are, the esteemed Deputy Justice Minister, Mrs. Novosel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10903	Dear MPs and MPs, the free legal aid system was introduced in 2009 and is a key element not only in the protection of human rights but also in achieving the equality of all before the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10904	Will we allow the Deputy Minister of Justice to say what he thinks or do we feel that this is completely irrelevant? So I'm asking you nicely please let's just calm down.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10905	In the protection of human rights, as well as in achieving equality of all before the law, since it enables socially endangered citizens to achieve legal protection and access to court and other public bodies on equal terms. The monitoring of the purpose of spending of the allocations shall be carried out on the basis of the legal assistance provider's report and relevant documents and data which may be verified as appropriate in the supervisory process. The Ministry of Justice shall monitor the implementation of the Law on Free Legal Assistance and shall be bound by the provision of Article 44 each year to submit a report to the Government on the exercise of the right to free legal assistance. In 2015, 11 501 applications were submitted for free legal aid, 67% of which were granted. Most of the requirements relate to relations in family relations of 2700 cases, in the executive procedures and insurance procedures when it comes to the forced achievement or insurance of the claims arising from the procedures which under the provisions of the Law on Free Legal Assistance may be approved by 630 cases. The report submitted shows that, in 2015, compared to 2014 and earlier, the number of granting secondary legal aid in the form of exemption from payment of court fees increased by 6 times compared to 2013. Therefore, secondary legal aid in the form of exemption from the payment of court fees in 2015 was granted in 6151 cases and in 2013 only in 1000 cases. By 31 December 2003, a total of 37 organisations authorised to provide legal assistance were registered in the register of primary legal assistance managed by the Ministry of Justice and that number was increased by 10 other associations and 3 legal clinics by 31 December 2016. In 2015, a total of 2 million 880 thousand kunas were allocated, of which 1 million and 500 thousand kunas to associations and legal clinics and 1 million and 379 thousand kunas were paid for the costs of lawyers, witches and interpreters. Finally, protection of the rights of citizens is achieved through, among other things, access to court and other public bodies and through equality of citizens before the court and the public authorities. It's never going to be ideal and it's not, but we have to strive for it. Therefore, the sensitivity of this topic is that it must reconcile justice and justice and may only reconcile them if the parties have valid legal assistance before the court and the public authorities. Therefore, the Ministry of Justice as the central body of the state administration responsible for the proper functioning of the system as a whole by active approach and by strengthening a common dialogue with all system holders and will continue to contribute to the development of the legal assistance institute by approaching citizens and their needs, as well as the demands of society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10906	Thank you very much. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Željko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10907	Dear President of the Parliament, I have no doubt of your noble intentions and my question after reading that statistic, do you work in... State? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is synergy with other ministries and let's say the judiciary where we have hundreds of thousands of pending court cases, not criminal, ten thousand blocked companies, etc., etc. There was another Croatian defender killed yesterday and it's for these people on the right of me, the left of actually prominence. The entire brigade killed a defender in Croatia who failed to exercise their rights. Most of these are property legal issues and Croatian suicide defenders also carried out 2385 trainees in the BIH. I wish you all the best, and I would also like to have all these institutions of ours and I know that General Medved works day and night to solve these problems and solve other problems because people die in this country of soul cancer and depression because slow justice is not justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10908	Thank you very much. Now I'd like to ask if the committee's rapporteurs would like to take the floor? Yeah. Dear Furio Radin, chairman of the Human Rights Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10909	Thank you, Mr. President. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities held its 9th session on 2 June 2016. Report on the exercise of the right to free legal aid and spending in 2015, which was delivered by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Act of 13 April 2016. The Committee considered that report as an interested working body. In its opening statement, the applicant’s representative pointed out that the report is submitted in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Free Legal Assistance and that the content of the report refers only to the achievement of free legal assistance by the basis of the law mentioned but not other legal provisions which are then implemented. In particular, it pointed out that the report in question does not cover the provision of free legal assistance in criminal matters under the Law on Criminal Procedure and free legal aid provided by lawyers to victims of the Homeland War and to socially endangered persons under the basis of the Law on Lawyership and free legal aid provided to asylum seekers and foreigners under the subsidiary protection of the Law on International and Temporary Protection. According to the 2008 initial system, the funds have been significantly increased by more than 4000% according to data from the analysis made on the basis of data on the conduct of official duties in criminal matters between 2011 and 2015, the Republic of Croatia participates in criminal cases with an average of 45 million kuna per year. It was stressed that the number of applications has been steadily increasing year by year so that over the past 5 years, the number of free legal aid applications has increased by 175%. The Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to reach the following conclusion: "A report on the exercise of the right to free legal assistance and spending of funds in 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10910	Thank you very much. And now I'm opening a debate. The first reported on behalf of the SDSS club, Reformist, the distinguished representative of Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10911	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament, and I welcome the deputy minister, colleague and colleague. This topic, given the number of discussions reported, is obviously not as interesting or attractive. In view of these developments I can understand but given the needs of people who are users of this free legal protection and we will try to clarify that in the debate, there should be little interest in this section of the judicial authority to say so. Free legal aid was as an institute in the Republic of Croatia regulated by the Law on Free Legal Assistance in 2009 and then we had very high quality changes in 2013 where we sought to neutralize these quality changes in some way all of the negativity which is also aggravating procedural circumstances which were an obstacle to free legal aid being achieved after the first legal solution and this is primarily secondary and above all primary legal aid. The primary in terms of giving legal advice to people and writing certain submissions in the first stage and secondary legal aid mainly concerned legal protection, i.e. representation of lawyers in disputes and release from costs, from litigation costs and charges on the burden of the state budget. And that's the essence of free legal aid. So we, I'm just going to say that in 2013 the last law abolished the ban on free legal aid providers, given that information is very important to citizens, information to citizens, possible users is a very important thing for them to consume this institute of free legal aid. A simplified procedure for obtaining a solution for the right to free legal aid has also been simplified so that the user no longer has to fill the manual as a previous action to achieve and help nor wait for solutions from the State Office for the approval of free legal aid, as this wait usually runs out of various pre-exclusive deadlines and the meaning of that legal protection is lost. Under the new law, free legal aid is approved for every legal problem. It's important to say because about the question, for the board's position that we saw that here free legal aid was not given for criminal cases. Therefore, this law opens up the possibility that other than the property rights of this aid, all other items are covered. Census was a very important criterion for exercising the right to free legal aid. We have established this censorship now at the amount of 3326 kuna and other assets has been allocated to 60 budgetary bases so that it was a level that could mostly satisfy the conditions for obtaining free legal aid and the most important thing in all of this is that the new law provided for and project financing of the Association for Free Legal Assistance because where the system is not functioning, where there are no organised offices in front of the state, therefore there are associations that are running for their projects to get, finance by the state and then implement on the ground primary legal assistance, which is very important if you have a fact that you have a place like where someone for free legal assistance should go 200 km and then through their project tasks or projects and thus enable the provision of services to make that availability of free legal assistance better. We see here from the report that in 2015 a very large number of requests for free legal aid were 11,000 and 500 applications were submitted. That's a very large number of demands. This is proof that the Institute of Free Legal Assistance should exist, that we should continue to build on it but this is also proof that even a large part of citizens who have a need for legal protection have no financial opportunities to use them in a regular procedure. It's proof that expensive lawyers are mostly expensive audio names, sound law offices are just the privilege of people who have a lot of money. People, citizens of ordinary citizens with their ordinary needs must, unfortunately, rely on free legal assistance. Of those 11,000 requests, thousands of requests were rejected. It would be very good to see the structure and reasons why they were rejected, whether because of the failure to meet the criteria or because we have limited resources in the budget overlooked for this kind of free legal aid. If this other reason is at stake, then it's not good, then one good institute is limited by relatively modest material resources and we answer to people, so those thousands who are denied that help must be managed on their own. We see that according to the state administration's offices, about 6 hundred such requirements, the Brod-Posavina 600 requirements, in Osijek-Baranja, about a thousand such requirements, as well as Sisak-Moslavina County and in the town of Zagreb, about 300 requests were submitted for free legal assistance. Here it must be said that secondary legal aid means direct representation of lawyers at the expense of the state was from the sphere of family relations, executive procedures, real rights and labour relations and indeed there are no criminal cases and that is what is the matter of thinking. In most cases, such a type of representation has been granted for, therefore, free legal aid has been granted to exempt from payment of court fees and representations in court proceedings. Therefore, it is the primary interest of clients. Users are Croatian citizens in the most part, children who do not have Croatian citizenship as well as foreigners on temporary stay and foreigners who are illegally staying in the Republic of Croatia as well as asylum seekers. So they're users of free legal aid so there's no confusion. Here the ministry said that in the register of providing primary legal assistance, means advisory legal assistance that should give the parties first basic advice and help to resolve the first step in resolving their legal situation is registered somewhere, registered in the register somewhere around 47 associations and three legal clinics dealing with this kind of legal aid. And now what's most interesting is funding, how they finance. This kind of primary legal aid, advisory aid is financed through a public tender opened by the ministry and of course they must then present their costs in a report, if not, neutral resources to the State. Therefore, there should be no doubt in the way these funds are available, in secondary protection means compensation to lawyers and costs of court proceedings are paid on the basis of the costs and on the basis of the tariff prescribed by the Government, which is of course good. The amount of funds is a matter to discuss. According to data from the state treasury system in 2015. In 2015, for free legal aid, 4 million kunas, changes and additions to the state budget were foreseen in the first instance, and the projection was reduced to three million kunas, and eventually it was below three million kunas of effective payments by the ministry which, of course, is not a good reduction and is not promising. We see that associations through project projects, through their projects, are very committed to providing free legal assistance. One of the most prominent is the Serbian National Council that has its offices for these things, this kind of legal assistance in Zagreb, Rijeka, Karlovac, Daruvar, even in the New USA. We see that free legal aid is provided and is used by over 50% of the users are returnees, so people who have no money and funds for expensive lawyers and expensive processes, and they have these living needs that they need to resolve in their status. The problems that finally relate to this problem are seen through practice and can be reduced to three groups of problems. Data from 2015 show that due to the insufficient number of employees in the business of free legal assistance in the offices of the state administration of decision-making on requests for secondary legal aid lasts for 90 days, so there is a expiry of the pre-exclusive deadlines for the parties, which is why the system of free legal aid kills its meaning. Lawyers who deal with professions know what these problems in impeccableness mean. The other thing is a way of informing. Therefore, despite the Ombudsman’s recommendations on the need for greater availability of information on free legal assistance, citizens are still not sufficiently informed about this type of aid, they are not aware that they can directly address authorised primary aid providers, they are not even familiar with the conditions for the exercise of these rights, etc. etc. This is evidenced by the fact that in the six offices of the state administration in 2015 no citizen has asked for free assistance. It is amazing that, therefore, it is not possible that there is no interest in such a kind of free legal aid, although as much as 60% more requests have been made to the attorney general. Funding is also a problem that represents a major brake for the development of the Institute of Free Legal Assistance. In line with the recommendations under the international pact on civil and political rights, a stable financial framework is a prerequisite for the effectiveness of the free legal assistance system. According to the European Commission's report on the review of the situation in the area of justice in the Member States published in the fourth month of this year, the Republic of Croatia is in the last place by the free legal aid allocations. And a tender has recently been announced by the Ministry of Justice for the financing of primary legal aid providers this year. A reduction of more than half of the total amount foreseen to finance this form of free legal aid compared to last year is visible. And additionally, the tender is open until the beginning of 5 months 2016, which means that the time period of 5 months is almost uncovered. So much for the care of society, state and ministry about this institute and people, categories of people who can't solve their status needs because they don't have a elemental thing, they don't have the money to pay expensive lawyers, and the state doesn't react. The Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms is prescribed that everyone has the right to have an independent and impartial court, fair, public and reasonable examination of his case, and that everyone has the opportunity to be consulted, defended, represented, and that legal assistance is provided to persons who do not have additional resources. It's a European standard. In addition to that, I will read only one example in the case of an individual in Ireland. The European Court of Justice v Ireland, the European Court of Human Rights has taken the view that access to the court includes the obligation of the State to provide legal assistance to those persons who themselves do not have sufficient resources to finance it in the legal services market. Let us imagine this position and the treatment of the Institute of Free Legal Assistance, fix the situation in the budget, and we will accept this report at the SDSS and Reformists.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10912	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, the next word will be taken by the esteemed representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10913	Thank you very much, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, respected deputy ministers, colleagues and colleagues. So a report on the exercise of the right to free legal aid and the spending of funds for this free legal aid in the 15th year. It should be extremely attractive to us with more aspects. Why? The report is indicative of the implementation of several constitutional principles in the Republic of Croatia. My colleague Horvat was already talking about court accession, and I will point out that Article 14. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia item 2 states that all citizens are equal before the law, and then we adopt the Law on Free Legal Assistance. Why? Because reality does not provide the most important principle that we are all equal before the law because the material situation in Croatian society leads to inequality and very dangerous imbalances that you cannot afford your rights that you feel threatened to protect on one of the courts. This correction is necessary for every society, for every state that wants to consider itself a social state. We all know that access to court requires both money and certain knowledge. That is why I advocate that this institute in Croatian society is being strengthened. And I advocate to strengthen and allow social groups that have violated rights from any area at least declared. Why? Because the Institute of Criminal Law knows professional defense by official duty. What's indicative of this report. That we have the most family disputes. Right now, sociologists, politologists, social politologists should investigate whether the reason for the most free assistance for family disputes is because the social situation of these families is such that they seek free help or the social situation leads them to even have to go to court to deal with family matters. It's a question that we'd have to come up with a qualified grade. By the way, I have to say that the report has been very correct in the legal analysis of the situation of the implementation of the Law on Free Legal Assistance. However, data from the report are not only legal. I'm going to highlight one more piece of information that I consider important. Of the 11 thousand and some disputes or requests for free legal aid, we have very few requests to be resolved in a peaceful procedure. So people of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, families are in a situation where they have to exercise their rights in front of some of the courts or in front of an institution and the social situation is such but do not want to settle disputes peacefully. That says a lot about the state of society. So, I don't know if by structure in the shifts of disputes that have been resolved in a peaceful way. I think it is compared to European countries, especially European countries, etc. old democracy, whatever it means in terms of the quality of democratic relations indicative of the legislator, associations, sociologists and generally elite, intellectual elite. We need to strengthen these situations, I'd say those who, when they're already looking for free legal aid to handle it in primary legal aid. I know it's a little harder, especially if it's done by the ministry but it could be done by legal institutions and it's great to say the space for the activity of people who have good intentions to exploit social activity in that. Maybe there's still one problem that needs to be solved by the Justice Department, and it's not mentioned here. Probably none of us would have found any objection to free legal aid. All 7,000 or 7500 approved cases for free legal aid probably no one would dispute any solution to such free legal aid but we must always watch what happens to those who have been rejected, and we do not always have legitimate reasons or at least no information on why they have not obtained free legal aid. Is it just because, in a formal sense, they broke through, say, a material consensus? This is an interesting question so that the principle that I have said that all before the law is equal to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and those who are not citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have access to Croatian courts, they are asylum seekers or refugees who can come into this situation. What am I saying? She'd have to have some insight into whether it was a judicial inspection or someone who could take responsibility to say it was us who had a complaint about solutions, we examined and we're behind it. It is simply a democratic principle that we must ensure in every decision. So let me get this straight. Of course, the SDP Club of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament will help this institute with all the help, because it is to say one of the elements that social justice is achieved in society in a legal way. I think that will be recognised by both the ministry and the government and will ask for some of the elements to be investigated from a scientific aspect especially family disputes where a large number of requests for free legal aid are sought, and a peaceful dispute settlement is refused. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10914	Thank you very much. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Željko Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10915	Mr. President-in-Office, may I have someone answer to me in the Assembly what right do we exercise in the Croatian state?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10916	A colleague, Glasnović, is not a replica of me, but you need to replicate the speaker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10917	Yeah, whoever answers me, not just you, but whoever wants to answer from our SDP colleagues. We know that doctrines don't mix or... with the NATO Pact. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have a population of most suburban London and we've solved that gray lock in the judiciary. And when we realize that there are no more work tips and self-government defenders, etc. This is a modern Croatian state. And if we don't run the analysis, we won't go very far. Why doesn't the entire mechanism turn in the judiciary? Where are the officers of the court who will serve people orders to speed up the process? Where's that justice? Disputes last 10 years, and where's the analysis of our system? And some defend right here a failed country that has failed financially, morally and finally until we realize that after the fall of the Berlin Wall, this socialist homo novice has become a homo obsoletus. And some people are full of the mouths of social justice and they have no idea what that means because they were privileged class in that system.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10918	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative, Josip Leko, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10919	My dear colleague, I wouldn't perform as you perform, so I'd say you know everything, and I have no idea. I think you know everything, but I don't know if you understand everything. That's a big difference. When it comes to this material, this is a correction, the social correction of the system we're building. So if you are not in favour of this system of correcting the construction of Croatian society, you have the right to do so and retain that right. I, too, advocate that the construction of a system is just the construction of a compromise between different views in Croatian society. If we dig in trenches and look at each other from trenches, then we will not build a Croatian society even if it is different from the past that determines the future of course. So this is an important building system that corrects the very important principle of the democratic system that all citizens are equal before the law and that they have all the right to access the court because we know that the material situation makes it impossible. And that's why we have a system to protect minorities of any kind, including those that can't achieve access to court for material reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10920	Thank you very much. Next on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, the distinguished representative Jaroslav Pecnik will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10921	On behalf of the club right now, let me say that we will support this report on the exercise of the right to free legal aid. And I'd just say, warn on a few things that I think can be interesting or repeat if someone before me was talking about it. When you say, when you look at this report then it seems interesting to look at the 2015 year which kinds of secondary legal aid were actually the most accessible, they have been approved in the procedures of family relations, and when we talk about forms then it's a release from paying court fees and a release from paying court costs, which actually points to some kind of to say the taste of the problem we're facing, which is that it's actually more and more those who are unable to pay the lawyer's services for what they think is their right, to drive him out of court, it's about one stratification of our social society and the fact that we all know it is that actually who is rich has one kind of rights and laws and protection, and one who's poor is destined to actually get along with how he knows and minds. And that's how much free legal aid is something that's very important. When it comes to users of legal assistance towards residence, since I come from Osijek, from Osijek-Baranja County, then I see one data that Osijek-Baranja County is with 530 cases of users in fourth place. And generally when you look at which users, where organizations that provide legal assistance work, then you see that coverage is relatively good, but either it's big centres or it's neighborhoods like Slavonia, Osijek, Vukovar where these problems are present and where really it's a big problem. What I think should certainly be highlighted, which is when spoken from the position of legal clinics, i.e. those who provide assistance and public administration offices and registered associations, then we see that there is a disproportionateity between the financial resources planned by the state budget and the number of requests on the ground. It's a constant pain of everyone, so then and this problem that actually shows, I'm just going to talk here about civil society, civil society dealing with this problem that's actually been cut off and it's going to be more and more, and it's getting more and more cut off. And it just seems to me that on this segment of civil society that deals with this problem, the most I can give. And there's actually a real field of their action. But it's kind of bypassing. Still another problem identified are still complicated prescribed forms of legal aid, then insufficient territorial coverage to provide legal assistance. When you look at the list of authorised associations and legal clinics there are enough of them, even more than you should at first glance, but on the other hand, when you look at locations, you can see what the problem is and lack of information about the possibility of seeking legal help. That should certainly be done because alone while I was working, while I was an activist of NGOs faced this problem that actually it was a big problem. At the time, it was a problem in general relations between legal chambers, i.e. legal chambers and NGOs, which were actually, in fact, resented that they wanted to deal with affairs that were not in their jurisdiction, are not in their job description to take away the job of lawyers and lawyers' chambers, which is a little funny. Because if someone lives well today it's the lawyers, not all of them, but one good part and they're not too interested in helping pro bono. So that's actually where it stays to work on civilian associations. From the Centre for Peace and Non-violence in Osijek where I consulted on these issues when talking about, which also provide free legal assistance. I was told that only a month ago was called to receive funds to legal aid providers, which is due to the braking of legal aid due to the fact that the funds for providing legal assistance here are not expected until 7 months this year. In other words, those who seek help, ask for help, the question is how they will get because the funds are not secured. It is also pointed out that the report by the Ministry of Legal Assistance in 2015 does not contain statistics on the number of primary free aid provided by associations, public administration offices and legal clinics, so it is proposed that this report be taken into account in some way and that this is a problem that needs to be addressed. The Commission for Free Legal Assistance exists, it is as a kind of body to monitor, analyse, suggest, etc., has 7 members and only of those 7 members is a member of NGOs or associations engaged in legal assistance. It seems to me that something should be changed here, to increase the number of those who come from the association, to strengthen associations, to point out their importance, because truly the only one who is really involved in providing free legal assistance, honor to the exceptions, but they are, in fact, civil society that is ignored especially by this government at every turn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10922	Thank you very much. The next one appeared on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, distinguished representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10923	Mr. President, the distinguished Deputy Minister, Mrs. Novossa, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will support this report on the exercise of the right to free legal assistance and spending of funds in 2015. The report is done very well, it contains numerical data, it is sorted by all our counties, it contains data actually on the spending of funds and on that side it is accurate and it speaks in fact what happened in the free legal aid segment in 2015. The Institute of Free Legal Assistance is a relatively new institute that we actually introduced during the period of candidacy and during the negotiations for Croatia's entry into the European Union. And we had, I'd say, from the beginning, some kind of problem that I think they're getting through today. If we look at the figures and see that in the RH budget we had balanced in the last year about 4 million kuna, so a little bit more for free legal aid and we managed to say spend 3 million, the million remains neutral. And on the other hand, when we see the fact that people in Croatia are poor today, when we see how many people are being treated, then we're actually saying that maybe there could have been more resources and more demands. And it seems to me that this system as it was before and beyond is quite complex and complicated. First, we struggled with that form that actually reported, so it should have been, I don't know, simplified, which is in the past term and done, which is good. However, what seems crucial to me is that it is essential to actually educate people who work in the offices of the state administration, so according to the counties that provide the first initial advice, they must be very well educated because in this first piece of legal advice and that first information can be made some kind of mistake and can actually lead the whole thing somewhere wrong. So that free legal aid depends pretty much on those people who come to what would be said on the counter, on the counter. And there you need to do constant education and educate these people to be able to provide more quality information. What was said, de facto that amount of 3 million kuna in the last year he was divided as far as we can see, less than half of them are lawyers and half of them are associations. I would say this, lawyers have another way of providing free legal assistance, which is also within the Croatian Bar Association, there is also an institute where citizens who cannot pay for regular legal services and then the bar determines their decisions by lawyers who, in that case, represent pro bono. This was quite developed and it worked in the Republic of Croatia before there was a law on free legal aid. There is also one institute and this is related to criminal law, where those defendants who are being prevented from being punished by those who are in law, and if they do not have the means to defend them, then the court shall appoint them as their official office in the order of the lawyers who are on the list of courts. And then they have what would be said to be a free re-representation in these criminal cases that falls on the burden of the state. So when we see all these facts and put them on the table, it seems to me that we have a relatively well-developed system of free legal aid, when we see even these two components not covered by this law but by other laws, we see that indeed one who cannot afford a lawyer, who has no means of representing either before the court, either in front of some administrative bodies or other public, public bodies, has the right to apply and has the possibility of obtaining those funds. In any case, what is important here is the Institute of Free Legal Assistance, it is important because it affects the ability of these citizens to be equal, to be equal with all those others, in the court procedure, in the process before other public authorities. And without that institute, indeed, many could not, could not be represented before the court and many would be denied quality legal advice in the process. So it seems to me that the ministry is taking care of it. This law, which is now in force in any case, has simplified the procedure, a form that fills it with the application for unlawful legal aid, is also easier but I think there is still room for people to make it easier for people to get the free legal aid they need to exercise their rights and interests in front of bodies and in front of judicial authorities. The second thing, of course, could be a lot to talk about, about the quality of our system, how fast it is to protect the rights, how effective it is, has parts of the system where indeed our administrative bodies, public bodies react quickly and the rights are quite well satisfied, and very good procedures are going. But there are also those complex things that when they come to court where clearly the whole public is angry and divided when they see some actions go on for a long time. However, these are not very often things that can be solved overnight, which can be resolved quickly but need to be implemented by procedure, it is necessary to carry out various evidence procedures, hearing witnesses of all these things, it of course takes a lot of time. What we have to say is a lot of things that come to the judiciary are coming because systems under the judiciary don't work, they're not effective, and then the thing comes to justice that has to clear up and solve the problem, and it's very difficult in a very short time in some satisfactory way for the public. So here, as for free legal aid, one institute that I say is a little bit more recent in our system, but in any case, it entrenched it. The legal system means free legal assistance rests on associations, rested with lawyers, and on this side should continue to develop it and it is particularly important to work on the education of those people in the county administrations, in the county offices that provide the first information. So here's the HDZ Club to support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10924	Report on the exercise of the right to free legal aid and the spending of funds in 2015. Reporter is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the exercise of the right to free legal aid and the spending of funds in 2015. Who's up for a conclusion? Please, let's vote. I'm asking for a result. 133 for, not one against, not one abstention. I find that the conclusion on the adoption of the report on the right to free legal aid and the cost of funds in 2015. My colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats. We are starting to discuss - Proposal for a Decision to elect 10 Judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia is proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system based on Article 6. Constitutional law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. Please president of the Committee on the Constitution, colleagues and colleagues please, can we concentrate a little? I would like the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of fellow Members of Robert the Vice President of the House to explain the motion for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10926	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs allow me a brief explanation regarding the procedure of electing judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the provisions of Article 6(1). The constitutional law on the Constitutional Court is prescribed that the procedure for the candidate of the Constitutional Court judges and the procedure for proposing to the Croatian Parliament is carried out by the Board of the Croatian Parliament responsible for the Constitution. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament referred in accordance with Article 6. Constitutional law on the Constitutional Court calls for judicial institutions, law schools, the Bar Association, legal associations, political parties and other legal persons and individuals to propose candidates for the election of 10 judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. The call was published in the National No. 36 of this year since 20 April 2016 and on the website of the Croatian Parliament. The deadline for the application was 15 days from the day of publication in the National Journal and expired on May 5th this year. On the basis of the provision of Article 6. The Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, following the expiry of the deadline for the submission of applications, found at the 10th session held on 12 May this year that 49 candidates arrived at the invitation to propose a candidate for the election of 10 judges on a timely basis. In doing so, 3 candidates have been identified as being not accompanied by complete documentation in accordance with that call and 46 applications have been identified as valid. On the basis of the above and the debate, the Committee established a list of candidates for the selection of 10 judges, which consisted of 46 candidates, as you can see in the text provided to you, that I do not read individual names. Furthermore, the provision of Article 6 provides that the Committee shall conduct a public interview with each candidate who fulfils the conditions for a choice for the Constitutional Court Judge. The board called for a public discussion of all 46 candidates whose bids were established by the rightdoers. In this procedure, 5 candidates withdrew their candidacys for the Constitutional Court judge and by writing a letter at different times. During a public conversation, members of the board who led the committee were introduced to the candidates within three days. Although Article 6 provides for a provision. The Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court stipulates that the list of candidates normally contains more candidates than the number of judges elected by the Board has accepted that the list of candidates for the selection of judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia contains just as many candidates as the judges are elected. So that the list of candidates proposed by the board to the Croatian Parliament therefore contains a list of 10 candidates, just the number to be selected. At today's session, the committee voted publicly on all candidates, on all 41 candidates who submitted their candidacy and did not withdraw their candidacy until today. After the vote, and you can see the result of the vote in the documentation that we have delivered to you, that I do not read for each 41 candidates the number of votes, the committee has proposed to the Croatian Parliament a list of candidates for the selection of 10 judges in the order set out on the committee itself by voting by most members of the board. The Committee therefore proposes to vote on 10 candidates in the next order and this through a public vote, since we do not have more candidates than the number to be elected. So, we propose Andrej Abramović, Doctor of Science Snježana Bagić, Mrs. Ingrid Antičević Marinović, Doctor of Science Branko Brkić, Mrs. Lvorko Kusan, Professor of Dr. Marija Jelusic, Mr. Josip Lek, Mr. Davorin Mlakar, Master of Science Rajko Mlinarić and Mr. Miroslav Šumanović. An explanation for individual candidates is given to the documentation and there is no need for it to be read in particular. So I must finally say that within the deadline, the committee has conducted a full process of talks, announcements, competitions, talks, public talks with all candidates and at the end of the process of laying down the list of candidates within the deadline within which it planned to submit its proposal to the Croatian Parliament, so just today on 3 June of this year, and that would be the most important before we go into debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10927	Thank you very much. Now I'd like to open up the debate. And the first reported on behalf of the SDSS club Reformist, the distinguished representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10928	Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is good that we have consent and that we have proposals for the Constitutional Court candidates, but other things are not good. So our principle of respecting the constitutional law on the Constitutional Court in this case was not respected. Our principle to leave to the leading political groups to agree on candidates was respected and accepted by us, but the criteria prescribed by the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court are not respected in that agreement. Some other criteria and some other principles are put above these criteria, above these principles. And that is bad because it continues practice that does not actually go on to strengthen the institution of the Constitutional Court, to strengthen it in relation to Parliament, to make it more independent of Parliament and political parties than in this way we have done today, we have actually created new assumptions for this addiction. Now let me say something I think is that the criteria prescribed by the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court were not respected the way so far they could be respected regardless of all the weaknesses that the previous elections had. The Constitutional Law on the Constitution of the Court in at least two articles spoke of the choice of members of the Constitutional Court from the ranks of university professors. This time it's done, it's not respected. We had among the best candidates, and we also had Professor Baric, who was here at the last vote for the Constitutional Court, lacked two votes. One of the most active constitutional experts in the public space, but none of the political groups, particularly the left and liberal, considered it necessary to support it. We had Professor Potočnjak, who also as a professor and expert on labour law and social law, no doubt deserved to be a candidate and to be considered as a candidate. No, we didn't do it. We had some younger people like the Vice Advocate for Gender Equality who besides having an excellent biography work and left probably the best impression or one of the best impressions during the hearing. Nothing was appreciated. So we'll have for the first time a Constitutional Court where we won't actually have any university law professors. And thus Parliament is one of its basic documents such as the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court that does not respect. And that's why we'll have four lawyers' time, and we'll potentially have four politicians who we haven't had in no time. Why? Because there are no others. From the example I set, it can't stand. We have had the opportunity to choose others, but we have decided to make a compromise that will fit our party, political visions of things, not the Constitutional Court and not the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court. If one thing about the Constitutional Court is to rest on how two key policy options will be negotiated, then it is not the idea of an agreement. The agreement is to select people with integrity, knowledge and expertise who will be able to do it on the basis of their own ingenuity, rather than on the basis of the political options they have chosen. And we only with this choice created conjectures for that kind of doubt that's how it's going to be. And for this reason, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS and the Club of Representatives of Reformists, as was the case on the Committee, will not support any of these 10. Some of them for obvious reasons why they didn't deserve to be candidates. In the academic community and back to it, plagiarism is the hardest thing to do. For holders of academic scientific titles plagiarism is the worst violation of the rules that can exist. And for judges from the fundamental judges to the judges of the Constitutional Court, it's a particularly inadmissible idea that in any way anyone might appear as a candidate in that matter. That we don't talk about other aspects. If these things that are legally prescribed, the laws we bring here will not be respected and we will not take care of it, we are destroying our own institutions and their vitality and that is why we are not here. Because that way we'll destroy our own position. I'm sorry that I won't be able to vote for some of my colleagues here, not because they wouldn't deserve it, but because we don't think there must be too many people in the Constitutional Court in Parliament and in politics. They are probably not guilty because there are already some and with the arrival of some, the number will increase so much that it will then simply become a question of what is the difference between Parliament, parties and the Constitutional Court. It's a minimum that we as a small club can make. Big clubs could've done a lot more, but they didn't. There's one more thing I want to say. With this composition of the constitutional court candidate proposal, we have only two candidates who have experience in the trial. Plus the one who had it but stopped being because he turned into lawyers. Is it possible that we don't notice such things? Is it possible that we don't take care of such things? Is it possible not to take care of the balance and balance of those who will sit in the Constitutional Court in view of their biography and their experience? It turns out it's possible. Is it possible that in the Constitutional Court proposal we do not have de facto any more serious constitutionalist, no more serious expert on constitutional law? And according to the way things are now, we don't, we don't. And why don't we? Well, because we didn't want to choose them because we handled the criteria that are below the criteria and beyond the criteria prescribed by the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court. This is why we will support the majority of those on this list, we will also respect the tradition of selecting people from the Parliament but we will make sure that this number is not exceeded. And we will take care of the fact that those we know reliably did works that were incompatible with the duties of the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Judges not to be supported. The rest will be supported by the remarks we have said and with regrets that we have here, and the dissatisfaction we express here because perhaps my dear and most esteemed colleague Grbin will be angry with me, dear and dear and also appreciated colleague Mlakar and Bošnjaković, but your presidents Seks and Arlović, however angry we are with them, because of their cuisine some things were better done than you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10929	Thank you very much. We have three replicas. It is the first to be respected representative of Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10930	Comrade Pupovac, you know very well what scientific work is. And on this occasion, you have made one heavy accusation that we are proposing a judge, a candidate for judge of the Constitutional Court, a person who has plagiarized scientific work. I think that such accusations should be justified and at least specify the title of scientific work, date of publication, place of publication, or name of the magazine and quote what is plagiarised or refrain from such dangerous accusations. And I think you miss the arguments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10931	Thank you. The esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10932	Dear and esteemed colleague Maric, perhaps the two of us did not follow what we should have followed equally. I didn't mention names, so I won't even mention the bars until now. The one I had in mind was publicly admitted to doing so. Let's know where it's possible to find it. And if not then it was a matter of the Constitution Committee and the Rules of Procedure which should also have been respected, so this debate today would not be in this way, nor would such a vote be what it is, we have it today.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10933	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10934	Thank you very much. He's a fellow Pupovac. It is clearly visible here, and here I would agree with you that these competences and criteria of the archeologists, as they say in Dalmatia, are a very important political key and we see how many politicians there are on this list of candidates. The fact that the Constitutional Court must be a fair court to interpret the Constitution and the problems of the constitutional which arise in society. However, when I look at this list, I see a large number of politicians from our Parliament. So compromise not on the profession but... exclusively political. The political court here may need to add one amendment to the law to be before a political court and then the addition of the Constitutional Court without underestimating colleagues in the Assembly that they have no expertise because I am not competent to judge it but it is embarrassing for me to have respected people who have certain competences here and deserve to be in court that we have this number of politicians sitting here among us in benches. There is an urgent need to change something because the Constitutional Court must not be exclusively a political court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10935	Thank you. The esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10936	Dear fellow Bull and dear Mr. President! It would be in line with the balance established between skills, knowledge and experience, more than reasonable and justifiable that we had at least two university professors, an expert on constitutional law or some other right than we rarely had during our previous constitutional court's call. It would be quite reasonable if instead of four lawyers we had at least two other members of the Constitutional Court who would be judges with excellent, long-standing and undeniable judicial experience. We didn't take care of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10937	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10938	Dear Mr. Pupovci! I followed your speech closely, and you pointed out a number of facts and expressed thoughts that I mostly agree with. circumvention of the academic community, politicisation, therefore further politicisation of the judiciary, the fact therefore especially that you pointed out and said openly that former Mrs. Seks and Arlovic in the kitchens were better cooked than today. So, I agree with the fact that this weakens institutions, the Constitutional Court becomes a growing political court, a party court more precisely, so at least he's okay, he can't, he could be one representative, which makes four representatives mean politics. What exactly do we want from that? But I want to ask you a question. That's what you've been trying to figure out. How is it that the SDP and HDZ have come to an agreement so relatively well and quickly on the names that you have referred to a number of complaints, and what does this mean for you to cooperate on such issues between these two largest parties? Once again, I stress that it is simply unacceptable that the academic community is not here, the university professors are being held downstairs, I'm sorry to be, and the rules are prescribed that they should be and the protests are being held down there, etc. We need knowledge, education, and when the time comes for them to be placed somewhere, they are not necessary, and therefore I think we have reached the ultimate level of politicization. We have a party council and we're going to have a party Constitutional Court and that's how we destroy the institutions. Please answer this.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10939	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10940	If I were in a position and there was an institution, I would make these remarks because of the non-compliance with the Constitutional Court's constitutional law in the course of this election. The fact that among the judges of the Constitutional Court do not suggest people who know what the constitutional text is, who know how to interpret it, laugh at you, laugh. I know a lot of those who say let those teachers go, they're just teachers anyway, but they teach us how to pass laws, how to write them, and how to judge them. But we've come all this way to make fun of them when they're mentioned. Why? 'Cause we're showing off. We think that the power we have is enough and we think that we can rule the institutions as we want and not let them do it ourselves. Forgive the increased tone, but if we do not want the Constitutional Court to make judicial decisions, which have experience in the trial and in making judicial decisions and those who know what the constitutional text is, then we are hardly mistaken and we have no excuse for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10941	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, the next word will be taken by the esteemed representative Jaroslav Pecnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10942	And colleagues. There's one rule in my profession, so he says it's allowed to do less harm for the greater good. And we seem to be doing more evil today for less good, which is to avoid a constitutional legal crisis and we will form a Constitutional Court which is good. But are we going to strengthen the Constitutional Court, make it more independent, better I'm afraid not. In that sense, I think the problem is the question of both the criteria and the competence and the way to choose. When we talk about criteria and I say right now, the Labourists will be abstentioned in voting for all candidates, although of course there are a lot of people I would rather personally raise my voice and I personally think that the position is essentially unsuitable. But in this situation, it's the only thing we really have left. Why? No one has explained to us, at least to us at the club which are the criteria that people were led to propose these candidates. Why was Mrs Baric mentioned here not, for example, a candidate even though she was in the previous assembly of the Parliament, I think two or three votes were missing to be elected judge of the Constitutional Court, and some others did. For example, the academic community is bypassed. There's a true doctor of science. Mrs. Bagic Snježana admitted to copying the work, so if you are in HDZ holding the copyist price, and obviously hold it, then at least you should have suggested Mr. Antic. He originally wrote the paper, it was used by this paper, so you could use the man who originally wrote the paper to propose rather than Mrs Bagic. Or let's say I raise my hand to Mr. Mlakar who's forgotten. I can't trust a constitutional judge who's forgotten. He goes abroad to forget his name and last name, and then the bank says the first name and last name that comes to mind. So these are all things that are simply inappropriate for such a high function. And thirdly, when we talked about the way the elections were held, I would remind Mr. Podolnjak here, the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia Article 6(4) says: "The list of candidates normally, of course, contains more candidates than the number of judges of the Constitutional Court elected." We don't vote here. It would be good if we chose. Because of all this, we're not offended that no one asked us anything, although we'd probably have something to say, but we're decent people, so we don't impose, so this time we'll be restrained at the harm of those who would gladly give a vote, but we won't, in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10943	Thank you. We have a replica, the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10944	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Pecnik, you mentioned that the proposed candidate for the Constitutional Court judge, Mrs Bagic, has signed the work of counterpart Teodor Antic, who is the secretary of the Constitutional Court. In fact, you know very well that's not true. During an opening lecture, she used his doctoral work and did not do her own scientific work, but used part of his work during the opening proposal. In doing so, she herself admitted to her own crime that she had not listed the author for which she had publicly apologized to her colleague and friend Tedomir Antic. Therefore, it is not exactly as you say, and it has already been said about this, no scientific work has been done in the role modeling of Mr Antic's scientific work has already been used during the presentation, introductive presentation at a seminar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10945	Thank you. The honourable representative Jaroslav Pecnik will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10946	Comrade Bačić, what you're saying is actually a question of academic ingenuity. That's not what you said. Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Reiner's academic might be able to explain this to you a little bit more closely. And as for her quoting so she didn't quote, she forgot. You know, there's a rule that says how much it's allowed to quote without listing the original. And it's very clear and precise written. You need to take a look at those documents, and that's not what you do, so you don't know. Therefore, she has greatly skipped that allowed standard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10947	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, the next word will be taken by the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10948	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I don't think it's necessary in this House to talk about the importance of the Constitutional Court. I believe it is not necessary in this House to talk about the position the Constitutional Court has in the constitutional and legal order of the Republic of Croatia. And I'm not just talking about what we've been talking about the past few weeks, and that's the question of the role of the Constitutional Court in overseeing the election process. I am talking about the important role of the Constitutional Court in the control of legality, in the control of constitutionality, both general and individual acts. Controls in a state that wants to be arranged must be secured uninterrupted. Our mission as Parliamentarians is one of the but extremely important things to ensure the functioning of the lever of the power that the Constitutional Court also makes. As many times as we want to, we can't and we can't escape. Six years ago, we changed the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. These days will be exactly 6 years from these changes. We have established an obligation in the Constitution to elect judges of the Constitutional Court by a two-thirds majority of all MPs. I would remind you that this provision has been introduced to ensure that no political option alone has a monopoly over the election of constitutional judges. I will warn you that this provision has been introduced in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia to ensure that constitutional judges are chosen by agreement and consensus. By consensus not some ordinary majority but two-thirds, they are making the constitutional majority needed to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The compromise, the deal in every respect and every moment means that both sides have to give in. That neither side can set ultimatums because ultimatums would only result in one, which is that we no longer have the Constitutional Court. I don't think there's anyone in this House who thinks Croatia would be better without the Constitutional Court. If there is, then I ask him to explain this and to explain how in the existing constitutional and legal framework of the Republic of Croatia this would work. It was in this context that the procedure was carried out. The procedure that led to these 10 candidates. A procedure that every stage was public. The SDP Club considers that its obligation is to assume responsibility and to participate in the selection of judges of the Constitutional Court. We did this from the first to the last step of the procedure. That's what we're gonna do today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10949	Thank you very much. We have 3 replicas, excuse me 4. He's the first of his distinguished MPs, Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10950	Thank you very much. A fellow coat of arms is indisputable that two-thirds must vote for constitutional judges. However, it is disputed when you look at the candidates that we have a representative from the Parliament too inside. As the predecessors said, are there enough people who are from the profession, university professors on constitutional law that can interpret constitutional law properly? The fact is that the two-thirds majority must not be abused, so only most of these members should be placed for political reasons by komoding one of yours and one of ours. That's not a nice message. Neither HDZ nor SDP nor anyone else. The two-thirds majority should choose people with competences as the predecessors have shown, not solely according to the political criteria. And it's visible and easy to convince us when you see just how many of our benches here in the Constitutional Court candidate's Assembly. No one is up to the crisis, however, should vote for some who are solely politically elected here and turn the Constitutional Court into a political body is chaotic in this society. This is one controller should be, however, how we turned it into the same as in the Parliament overvote on political and ideological or political views. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10951	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Peja Grbin will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10952	My dear colleague and I are parliamentary representatives, and you and I swore to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia when we began to act on this duty. So are the colleagues we propose. And by saying first of all, in the defense of those colleagues who come from my club of MPs, which you said and called, I'm going to ask the question why do you think someone who's worked his whole life under an increased public record would be better or worse than someone else? You're talking about politicizing the election of Constitutional Court judges. I'm going to ask you if you know how judges of the Constitutional Court are elected in other states that that court has? A country that is our role model conducts the procedure of electing judges of the Constitutional Court in complete secrecy. As a matter of principle, one of yours, one of ours. And this country and this Constitutional Court consider the professional public both the example of democracy and the best constitutional court in the world. If we were to propose the introduction of a German model in Croatia, and I'm talking about Germany, we'd probably get on our feet and say it would be the twilight of democracy. On the other hand, you have another great state in which the former presidents of the Republic by force of the Constitution are sitting in their Constitutional Council. And then, on top of that, the country chooses the former prime minister in the Constitutional Council. Is that too much politicizing? We have today proposed candidates for which consensus has been reached. Whether it's good or bad, each of us will rule on our own behalf. But you must be aware that this was a situation where the only alternative was to go out to the entire Croatian public on Tuesday and we say the Constitutional Court no longer has.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10953	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10954	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Grbin, we have come to this situation to do it last minute because we have not done it in these four years or five years. We missed all the opportunities we should have missed. Now that we're in this situation, the argument is we have to have a Constitutional Court, so at least whatever it is, it doesn't hold water. You said it was the right to arrange parties. We don't argue, we don't dispute in any segment. Consensus and dialogue are the basis of every democracy and institution building. And that's undeniable and we won't argue. Where we were just giving you signals and you personally are sticking to the criteria and you failed to stick to the criteria in a very important segment, which is the representation of different segments of the judicial profession and judicial activity. You've thrown out university professors and you've minimalized judges. And that's why our colleagues, most of whom are honorable people here who are MPs, be told when you call for German experience, can't anyone go directly from the assembly bench to the Constitutional Court, can't go straight after the term is over but must pass for a while. But our colleagues didn't deserve to be discussed here because we didn't do our job. And we didn't stick to the criteria. If we'd stuck to the criteria and said in this house this, in this house, this, in this house, what the letter of the Constitutional Law says about the Constitutional Court then we wouldn't have this debate and you would have done the job right. And we wouldn't have brought any objections of this kind here except for some that you had to stop at all as candidates for the debate I mentioned. And that can't be the subject of compromise.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10955	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Peja Grbin will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10956	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Pupovac, we are in this situation because for six years we have been on the left and on the right side of the assembly claiming to respect the criteria and to seek only the best. For six years, we have tried to implement the model that you represent today, which is a model that requires influence but does not take responsibility. Today we have to take that responsibility and that's all I'm going to tell you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10957	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stipa Petrina.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10958	... Mr. President. [[Specially enabled.]] Mr. Grbin, you said there would be a constitutional crisis if we didn't have a Constitutional Court. By reading the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia we come to the conclusion that the Republic of Croatia is based on three pillars of government. The first is legislative, executive and judicial. By reading about the Constitutional Court, we don't see what the Constitutional Court of the Republic is? It shall be clarified in only six articles from Articles 126 to 132 of the Constitutional Court, but in no way shall the Constitutional Court be laid down what is the Constitutional Court? Is this a judicial authority, is this an executive power, is that a legislative authority? One more thing that needs to be specifically warned about, the fact is that you will today, so because you have agreed to choose constitutional judges. I'll talk about the quality of these people later, but the fact is that you don't have an instrument in this Constitution how if we make a mistake today, or not us, because I will certainly vote against, if you make a mistake in calling off your mistakes? When you go somewhere, Mr. Grbin needs to know if it's the wrong way to go back. Therefore, the stories of the constitutional crisis are much more benign and less harmful to enter the constitutional crisis than to choose those judges, those persons who, but literally by no criteria deserve constitutional judges. With that Mr. Grbin and the SDP gentlemen, we simply give these people virtually absolute power without any control.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10959	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Peja Grbin will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10960	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear counterpart, that it is true in Croatia there is a tridivision of the government that is divided into a legislative embodied in Parliament by the Croatian Parliament. It is divided into an executive embodied in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. That's divided into fate. The Constitution makes the role of the Constitutional Court clear. It is located in the position of the constituents of the constitutionality of decisions and the functioning of all these levers of government. In this context, its role is extremely important and clearly derived from the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. I have talked about some aspects of this role and have no need to repeat it, but keep in mind the procedure of control and recall it was incorporated into Croatian acts and into the Constitution, and in the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court. One thing is prescribed and the other is that if I believe it, God forbid the situation so that some members of the elected Constitutional Judge have to call off how it will be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10961	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Draga Prgomet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10962	Thank you very much. Mr. Grbin, therefore, it is clear to all of Croatia that the reputation and integrity of the Constitutional Court is mildly stated in a great trial. Are we going to fix it today with today's decision? No, I'm absolutely sure. Today we're going to choose judges, it's obvious, and I don't mind that exactly 2/3 of the parliament decides who the Constitutional Court will be, I don't mind that there's an agreement, a compromise between the two biggest parties in our HDZ and SDP case. It's just like you said in Germany with a small fence, what Pupovac said there clearly states that none of the Bundestag active politicians can go to the Constitutional Court. It will happen to us today that for the first time since I know in 1991, some of the active parliamentary deputies will also become a constitutional judge. Also, while we were taking over some of these legal solutions, we needed one perhaps slightly seemingly irrelevant, which is that we do not publish the names of those people who received zero votes and thereby further destroy the dignity of these people. Yes, it's true by failing to elect constitutional judges we can enter into a constitutional crisis but I'll pull one of your parallels. Imagine if she told me as an instrument surgeon, you know, professors, we have to finish the surgery by four o'clock, the instruments won't come sterile, but we have instruments from a former patient, so we'll operate on it. That's about it. We'll operate to get there, not to save a man's life. You shouldn't have brought yourself into this because you had the chance to make the last decision on constitutional judges, you didn't ask the biggest opposition party why we didn't make the deal. Therefore, the dignity of this House will be safeguarded by us from our club in such a way that we cannot support with all respect to colleagues from the Parliament that I believe would be excellent constitutional judges we cannot support active politicians nor can we support a candidate who has publicly admitted that in her written work she has used her colleague's work. We call it plagiarism.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10963	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, the next word will be taken by the distinguished vice president of this House, Mrs. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10964	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The list proposed here by the Committee is absolutely the result of the compromise, so the result of the agreement. What deal? Since the legislator has provided that constitutional judges are elected by the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia and since the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia is made up of politicians or political parties in which politicians and all of you are sitting here, all of us sitting here are politicians, regardless of how we like to think about ourselves when you take over this function and become politicians, then it is of course a political agreement because the legislator so predicted. The legislator also predicted that no party could make the political decision on its own. Because it's unlikely that anyone in Parliament would have had two-thirds. And determining that constitutional judges can only be elected by two-thirds of the vote in parliament has forced or directed the position and opposition to agree on constitutional judges. This has caused a lot of other crises, or inability to agree on the position and opposition. And it can certainly be subjected to criticism and said that agreement should have been reached earlier, it should have gone according to some agreement earlier and gradually complemented by the Constitutional Court. I can agree with that, I think it would be better if we were working gradually, not if we were facing 10 places to fill today. But it wasn't, it wasn't working. We can criticise ourselves, we can accept criticism, whatever you want, but we're in the situation we're in right now. And that is that the Constitutional Court except that, of course, part of the institutional architecture of this state has an additional task and function, which is the task of one of the supervisory institutions in the election situation. What situation are we in today? We don't know where the Prime Minister is. Deputy Prime Ministers who make up the ruling coalition do not talk to each other. Of the 8 sessions of the government the last 3 were such that people saw each other and 5 were telephoned. The level of uncertainty in the country is enormous. The level of unpredictability where and how we're going to get out of this is huge. International financial institutions have rejected our bonds. It's more serious than all this. And the story of us having changed our minds and not wanting to really hold any water and every single eye can see it. It is simply because, as the political instability and inexperience of people who make up political power that the conditions offered or which could possibly be offered are not acceptable and are not sustainable for this country. It's a level of uncertainty that even a country with a much longer institutional tradition than ours can bear. And the only way that we can get out of this situation and that's everybody's responsibility is to go to the election. We can no longer speculate and look for where the prime minister is, whether the Deputy Prime Ministers and representatives of the coalition partners in power are speaking. We have to go to elections and without the Constitutional Court we can't go to elections. Without a Constitutional Court which is one of the elements in the control of these elections, we will be brought into a situation where, on the one hand, our institutions do not function. And on the other hand, we don't have institutions that are the prerequisite to get out of it, which is to hold elections. And in this dilemma that many of us are responsible for that earlier in this House reached an agreement on the choice of constitutional judges or agreement between the position and the opposition, we are where we are, the position and opposition have reached a certain agreement. Among the people on this list are the people I and the entire HNS Club would vote for absolutely pure hearts for. There are people that under normal circumstances wouldn't, frankly. However, by choosing between no prime minister, no government, no parliamentary majority, and we cannot go to elections because we do not have a Constitutional Court I choose to have a Constitutional Court and that we can go to elections. For this reason, the HNS Club will support the proposed list. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10965	Thank you very much. We've got a few replicas again. He's the first of his distinguished MPs, Mira Bulj. Okay, so you're the first person to do any damage to the Rules of Procedure, which article was injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10966	Your Honor, Mr. President. The speaker cannot speak, can only talk about the subject, according to the Rules of Procedure of Article 232 the speaker can only talk about the subject under the established agenda. Here was the topic of the agenda meaning, the Constitutional Judges themselves and Mrs Pusic, the representative spoke entirely of other things, so she spoke where the prime minister is, too, that I am now speaking in the debate of the case where the opposition leader is, there is three months gone in the Assembly. It's such a missed topic that predicates being a prime minister. It's a similar theme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10967	I have to admit that if you thought of it as a violation of the Rules of Procedure, I should probably say it to everyone here every day because it's very often straying away. I'm seeing this as an argument by the vice president whether she's right or not, it doesn't occur to me to come in like I don't judge anything any of you say, but she's been right or wrongly arguing with you or me about it, not your position on the Constitutional Court. But you asked for as much as I understood and the replica, of course, here you go. You have a chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10968	Of course, to compromise, I see that you agreed very quickly on which replicas of course when you agreed on Constitutional Judges, very simply. Of course we should compromise but not be politicians from the Parliament either, on the other hand. It's not a good message, you're a university professor and you know that protecting the Constitution needs people who are professionals who have devoted their lives to constitutional law or legal science. And to be representatives of the political options within the Parliament it is a message that we need to be escorted I am just before the river a political court, so we can put the Constitutional Court of Croatia growing, for example, the Patriot coalition in parentheses. It's not nice to be more politicians and lawyers than professors of university and constitutional law experts. There's a message. And this is a good thing that we have two-thirds to make decisions but exclusively to be inside most of the politicians in the Parliament it's a terrible bad message and so it doesn't protect the constitutional order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10969	Thank you. The Honorable Vice-President of the House Vesna Pusic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10970	Thank you, Mr. President. The truth is, I also said that maybe a man has this luxury that he can put together a list of the people we think should be judges of the Constitutional Court. I'd probably put together a different list, I'd probably put together a different list. But I'm pretty sure you wouldn't support her. So we're doing what's possible. If, if the legislator wanted one party to propose one list, he would have said 76, he did not say so, he said two-thirds. We can say today, this is a bad proposal and we'll vote against it, we can say it and what we'll do tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10971	Thank you. The next is a replica of Tomislav Koncevski's distinguished representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10972	Dear President of the Parliament. If this is a matter of compromise, it was enough to pick only one judge and if we need a compromise, then why didn't they take two to pick two now if the problem was not to get into a constitutional crisis and the rest of us have time to choose then. Why did we go to all ten? So if we choose experts without getting into a constitutional crisis we could choose two so it's a matter of compromise, let's agree on those two, and two big options that can get a two-thirds majority, so we'll pick the others later. Thank you very much. And I've replicated it to Mrs. Pusic, so we won't get this one now to choose ten, we could have two choices and we could have solved the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10973	Thank you. The Honorable Vice President Vesna Pusic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10974	Comrade Koncevski, I agree with you. We could have, but it's not a replica to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10975	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Domoga Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10976	Thank you, Vice President. Well, Mrs. Pusic! Let's be responsible, so there's no need to do any damage, let's not, let me finish. Can I say a sentence to the end? I can. Thank you. So let us not do more harm than it is to frighten the people. I mean the bond. So you said we were rejected by foreign investors and bonds. That's not true. So it's embarrassing enough for the Minister of Finance to withdraw from the issue of bonds. So there's no need. Stick to what the finance minister said and he said it would just cost more money and that's why we're pulling out of bonding. And as for political stability, I must tell you, acute instability for every country is much better than the chronic stability with the bad results we saw four years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10977	Thank you. Vice-President Vesna Pusic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10978	Thank you very much. My colleague Milosevic, I would rather stick to the truth than to what any minister has said, so if they tell you that they will give you conditions that are unacceptable to anyone, that means they have rejected you. In other words, with an explanation that says there is a reason for political instability and inexperience. That's exactly what it's like. So it is this country that absolutely shows instability and shows the bad situation that we are in and we stick to that truth. For this reason, we are taking part here in something that we are really not convinced with our soul and heart about this choice and of the great parties in this House the minimum courtesy would be to say thank you. We've created a general chaos, you've created such instability in which the country can't even refinance its debts anymore, you've created a situation where we don't know where the prime minister is. And then you're holding a lecture on us helping you at least try to get out of this. I ask you to refrain from it. Thank you enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10979	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10980	Dear Madam Vice President, you are entitled to be held accountable but we do not have the responsibility only to obtain at least some composition. We have a responsibility to give that court the right status. And what my colleague said was that we decided to pick three from each side of the one that we know undisputedly will do the job as well as the crisis would not happen. But we decided to go in the package and thus contribute to the crisis being transferred to the Constitutional Court, which has been in crisis for years and has not made a single decision for years without being unanimous, which is an abnormal situation. So, we don't blame you, but we want to say that what we've done so far, working in a time narrow, not listening to warnings that have come, not following what we have as an experience in good and bad practice. You're a university professor just like I am. Imagine a situation in the Constitutional Court where you don't have an expert who knows the international conventions necessary to make decisions, and we don't have one. Imagine a situation where you don't have a university professor and a scientist who knows the comparative judgments that have been made in our courts, including our Constitutional Court, and we don't have one. Imagine a situation where we don't have an expert who knows what judgments the Constitutional Courts of other countries have made, and we don't have it. And imagine a situation where we don't have judges who have years of experience, who know the risks of making judgments, and we have very few. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10981	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice-President of the House, Ms. Vesna Pusic, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10982	A fellow bud, I imagine. I imagine that's the situation. I don't need much imagination because with such a constitutional court in different variants we lived through its entire existence. And he was absolutely imperfect in many things. And by what we see here, it will be imperfect and this one has no doubt at all. And I repeat once again, this should have been avoided in such a way that we had previously made deals and dealt with these problems before, but they didn't. We've met in the situation we're in. We need one institutionally firm point so that the entire country can move forward from the institutional political and any other crisis in which we are currently in elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10983	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ club, the next one will speak for the esteemed representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10984	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues before us is indeed an extremely important decision on the choice of candidates, on the election of constitutional judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. I don't need to talk about the importance of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court is, in fact, the supreme arbitration of our society, as the Constitution prescribes, making decisions on the most important things. What determines perhaps the moment we are in when we choose constitutional judges I would say that one extremely large division in society is when we cannot literally agree on any facts. Also, the moment when the problem of the Constitutional Crisis hangs over our heads if we don't choose constitutional judges we can lose the Constitutional Court and thus we don't have a round organization of the state, we're missing that supreme arbiter. And the third thing that has already been said here, indeed after the last amendments to the Constitution we have raised that ladder very high and we have said that constitutional judges need a two-thirds majority. We remember that it was once the majority of the total number of MPs who were somehow more easily reached. At this point, it's hard to reach any majority. We've really been here for the last three, four months, trying to reach some kind of agreement, come to a compromise, and the result of that compromise is this list today ahead of you. There's already been a word. She's really not perfect. Surely there are shortcomings, and it is certain that each of us would make a different list. And it is certain that none of these lists would reach a general consensus and that we would all be satisfied with it. That's quite clear. However, this is the point of agreement with all her flaws, with all her qualities. I think it still guarantees that the Constitutional Court will continue to work and act. But I'd say if we went back a little bit every time we chose constitutional judges, they were always tense atmospheres and tensions. In 2007, I remember standing here for this pay phone and we chose constitutional judges without this part of the Parliament. Because that's when it was 76. The opposition colleagues then disagreed, left the process of electing constitutional judges, left and chose by the majority at the time. Those objections that were we have the Constitutional Court here which is the good part of that time. We see that he made decisions with which neither the left side nor the right side were satisfied, I would say they preserved their integrity as I think that these people we propose today each of them has their own integrity, has a career. I don't agree with all those who fall for politicians. It is true, there are a number of politicians, but these people are not politicians at their birth, they have their careers, they have their skills, they have their competences. I'm willing to defend each and every one of them if we say this is missing this or that. Each one of them did something in his life before he came to this House. I think we need to rise above those clichés that in society rule to be a politician and deal with politics is something that priorities are bad, and prioritizes ugly, that it's unfair. We just can't do that. And that's why today's moment has to be used to show responsibility because despite all the difficulties we're looking at in this assembly and on the scene in society, despite all the divisions I think we need to show unity today and that today we have to choose the judges of the Constitutional Court. No matter who gets along with this name or the one, when he votes, he'll show who's acceptable to him, who's not. But the Constitutional Court today is our task and I think we'll get it. The HDZ Club will support this list. The list is the subject of an agreement, a consensus that is what it is. It can be flawed, it can say someone this or that but it guarantees actually the functioning of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10985	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Silvan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10986	Dear counterpart Bošnjakovic, I would not agree that the two-thirds majority guarantee of good work, which is elected by the members of the Constitutional Court, is a guarantee of good work and good representation in the Constitutional Court. In fact, I think the two-thirds majority became a problem because it makes compromises even though they were rotten. Therefore, I think that if we go further this way to decide and choose the members of the Constitutional Court, then it is less important or not on the right track. It is less important how satisfied the decisions of the Constitutional Court will be with the left or right or left or the right political sex. But it's much more important how satisfied citizens are with the Constitutional Court. Citizens object daily to the Constitutional Court and seek constitutional court decisions as the last instance of their protection of civil rights. You know, it's less important that HSU was satisfied when he asked for the Constitutional Court's opinion on a 3% health contribution that pays 30,000 pensioners. And only $30,000. If the Constitutional Court doesn't see that it's double taxation then something is missing in that Constitutional Court, there are no scientists who know the functioning of all systems. So they are limited to their knowledge and I will always as a politician retain my right to criticise their decisions. But we have to change the model of choice if we want to change the quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10987	Thank you. The esteemed representative Drazen Bosnjakovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10988	Comrade Hrelj, we are all citizens here and we are all here because some citizens have chosen us. I didn't say this at all in the context that the Constitutional Court should court any party to be satisfied with it. It is clear that both you and I and all of us will have the right to have an opinion tomorrow on the decisions that this Constitutional Court will make. This two-thirds majority of them are actually looking for a very high consensus in society to choose constitutional judges at all. You see, we haven't had that consensus since the last amendments to the Constitution, and we haven't chosen a single constitutional judge. I think we should stop it because we have to win the Constitutional Court. He needs to be let go, immersed in his life to make decisions that we'll either get along with or disagree with, but there will never be a general consensus that everyone with any decision absolutely all agree with and some disagree. So the only thing we can do today is make a deal.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10989	Thank you. Next, on behalf of the club HSU and Stipe Petra, they will take the esteemed representative of Stipe Petrina.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10990	Thank you, Your Honor. The Constitutional Court is too serious an institution to make a decision on constitutional judges only 3 days before the deadline in which we must appoint constitutional judges. So, very unserious on the one hand and on the other. I agree with Mr. Tom if we were to avoid the constitutional crisis, we should have appointed as many constitutional judges as it took for the Constitutional Court to decide. So it's clear that this here is the dirtiest political trade or to be clear to those who listen that this is the most elementary way, the most elementary political corruption in the dirtiest of its light. Why is that? Well, the first proof of this is that gentlemen of the Patriot coalition and gentlemen of the Croatian coalition are growing up, you're obviously in less important issues, you've been reporting for individual debates, you've been reporting for replicas. Today I see the torment, none of you on either side, on the other hand, answer for an individual debate. Obviously, political or party discipline is at work. The dirty work of electing constitutional judges should be completed as soon as possible. And it's pathetic. Here you bomb us with some words of sublime content that this constitutional crisis will arise. So what does the constitutional crisis mean to you if the choice of individual people on this list can be worse and it is worse than any constitutional crisis. So, reading this report to the board nowhere, I saw that constitutional judges must have moral and human qualities. As far as we're concerned, what's written? Professional and others. It is clear that these 10 candidates, among them four I know, I guarantee for four that they do not meet the criteria of constitutional judges at all. I don't know the other people, and I can't talk about it. I'm talking on behalf of my own and I'm just using the club institution to get here sooner. So this is my attitude. Why do I say that? That's why we have people here who have passed on this board 10 of them, they've only gone through political similarities. What was the Constitutional Court so far? A place that literally destroyed has destroyed the largest authority of the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia. The Constitutional Court was a place that destroyed the Supreme Court's verdicts. The last such case we have is a violation of the judgment of the County Court to former President Ivo Sanader. If that's not a harmless thing, I'll tell you one more thing. From the very top of the DORH and USKOK came the message of oral address to the president, today's President of the Constitutional Court, Mrs. Jasni Omjec of the following content, "I know you took 5m euros to bring the verdict down to Sanader." And that's true. No one has ever challenged this before. So what does the Constitutional Court turn into? In some over-the-counter institution that is above the judicial authority, above the legislative authority and above the executive authority. I'm asking you gentlemen MPs who, in my opinion, are not only you, but all eight are calling the Parliament the absolute culprits for all the bad things that have been happening to this country for 25 years. And do you know why? Such an important topic and an election to go through without individual debates... and every time we have to adopt this, this we have to, this will happen, it will happen. What is worse than today's situation in which Croatia is today? Explain that to me. What constitutional crisis? So if we want to go here we could put with a two-thirds majority you have to change Mrs. Pusic and the Constitution, so we'll put a ok we won't choose constitutional judges today but we'll modify the articles of the Constitution about 126 to 132 and we'll say the following... Wait a minute, you'll have a chance to replicate. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So we'll put him in charge of the Supreme Court election. But that's your political will, and that's why I say these days your compromise is the dirtiest political corruption. And you can never tell anyone again what political corruption is. Well, you're both synonyms for political corruption. And one more thing... You're the only one standing around. You're the next. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Today you are told here and it is true that the bonds have fallen, and they have fallen, Mr Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10991	A colleague of Petrina's, There is nothing but a little, although no one has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure I warn you that you are violating an article of the Rules of Procedure that speaks of insulting others. [[I'll be back.]] So please speak in a decent tone.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10992	Okay. I'll refrain from commenting. So let's go back to the Constitutional Court, which is the note of the Bene pure political court. As for the very copying of the professional papers that Mr. Maric said here, here I will quote when, where and how much it is prescribed, "So from the 17 pages of Bagic's professional article recently published by the Centre for Public Law Foundation, so the place where it was published, almost half of the text is to the point of being identical to the scientific article in 2012 in the legal journal and the place where it was published by the Secretary-General of the Constitutional Court Mr. Teodor Antić." It's definitely the things that happen here. But to return to the candidates who are on the list today. First of all, I'd like to elaborate on the lady mentioned earlier who clearly copied the note from Bene. We had such a case in this honorable House. I don't know why we refused, on the one hand and on the other, Mr. Brkic that he can't become the minister of Croatian defenders if he's burdened with what's being put on him. In my opinion, the more important function of a constitutional judge than the Minister of Defense is here. Note as to what you can call off at each session by the Defence Minister and by the Constitutional Judges, as you have previously seen in Article 128. The Republic of Croatia can't go on any longer. When we choose them our jurisdiction over them absolutely ceases. That's... This one. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Another pearl in this short one is Mr. Branko Brkic. I think it's in Zadar where it comes from and from the Supreme Court very ugly things are tied to that candidate. It is said that Mr. Brkic was a 10-year member, or president of the Court in Obrovec, of not coming to court, I don't know, but so the files say. The second thing is that it was chosen exclusively by the political will of the HDZ to judge the Supreme Court. The third thing, compatible with the insolence that his son has a law firm in his apartment that he rented from the county court judge. And the third thing is that the bride is a candidate for a constitutional judge for the president of the municipal court in Zadar. If there is more nepotism, please mention it to me. That's another case. Third case is Mr. Davorin's Mlakar. Let's just say I'm very interested in this moral and firm person and an expert who will raise his hand for Mr. Mlakar. Why do I say that? Mr. Mlakar and I have known each other since 2009 when Mr. Mlakar, along with today's Constitutional Court judge Mr. Antun Palaric, introduced unmarked practice. So then, the Ministry of Administration disputed the legal mandate in the election of a member of the County Assembly. Me and Mr. Mlakar have changed the hard words, and today I stand by everything I said back then. With what you all know, presenting with a fake name is even worse. So Mr. Mlakar you just can't read and compensate and compare two laws. The first law is the Law on election of members of representative bodies, local, regional self-government, the second law is on election of mayors, mayors and mayors. You, in your explanation that is absolutely illegal and not standing because you are not competent to give an opinion, was relevant to this House which has never responded and today we see the agenda of giving an authentic opinion. So either you or you don't know, or you're under political pressure to give an opinion that took away a legally acquired mandate. On one side, you say by law or by law. And your colleague with whom you will be sitting tomorrow at the Constitutional Court of Antun Palarić says a controversial shop, forgetting that you deliberately violated political corruption or out of ignorance of all the articles of the law and all that was positive in the legislation of the local self-government of the Republic. And the third person, or 4th, that I'm not just staying on this side, Mr. Leko, I can never raise my hand to you because in that same case you clearly said and proved that your party interests are above the law, above the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. That's my knowledge. I can't talk about the other candidates because I don't know about them. But I do know the way they choose to be extremely unfair and extremely political. So there's no one, no one who can say tomorrow that the Constitutional Court is not a political body. But to go back to what the President of the Constitutional Court said about the charges that followed from the state's attorney's office. She literally smiled at it and told him if you had any evidence of what's being said than to press charges and arrest her, if she's gone, don't let her talk to her anymore. I ask you if you need any more comments on the work of the Constitutional Court, the constitutional judges who repeat the category that is absolutely excluded from all responsibilities and on the work of the Constitutional Court best speak of the fact that the Republic of Croatia annually in the court, at the International Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, pays damages to approximately 3 million euros. This is, then, the best way to say so is to make sure that the International Court of Human Rights only enters the procedural errors and infringements of the Convention or Article 6. The Convention on Human Rights. About the metrics, the way it's done, there's no words.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10993	Thank you very much. Next, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, the Honorable Vice-President of this House, Robert Podolnjak, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10994	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Let me speak on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club this time. I've assumed all these months that this today's election of Constitutional Court judges will be one solemn moment of democracy, but I'm afraid in the end it won't be so. In a way, it saddens me because I was sincerely convinced that all candidates would be elected unanimously or at least explicitly qualified by a majority significantly higher than the two-thirds majority needed. However, obviously from the debate that one part of the MPs, one part of the clubs, will not support all the proposed candidates and I will say on behalf of the MOST that we will support six candidates but that we will not support and that we will vote against four candidates. Let me explain our broader attitude. First of all, it is indeed a fact that we have repeatedly pointed out that we have had an exceptional responsibility to bring this process of election of the Constitutional Court judges to a certain number of candidates to that two-thirds majority, which has been an obstacle from the very beginning since the constitution was found in 2010 and so long that provision was a problem until we came to the situation that we have to choose as many as 10 constitutional judges and that we are actually doing a thorough reconstruction of the court at the time when it would otherwise be left without the necessary quorum. I thought that this particular situation would be a good opportunity for us to choose 10 judges to have the opportunity to choose not only the average or the good but also the ability to choose very high-quality candidates. So we made a call, I also believed a sincere call to all courts to law schools, associations, law offices and other institutions that operate in the area of the right to propose prominent candidates, believing that indeed in a situation where we choose 10 judges that there will be enough space to choose from different structures individual experts. The model that has presented us with the problem all these years is a kind of variant not entirely but a variant of a German model in which judges of the Constitutional Court are fully elected by the legislative body and chosen by the two-thirds majority. So these are two fundamental facts that were relevant to us. The third to be relevant to the German department is precisely that parity, therefore, that the parliamentary majority or opposition are alternately proposing to one candidate in order to maintain in court the principle of equal representation and different world-widesors and pluralism of opinions and all of this is what we were faced with in our choice. What unfortunately does not exist in our model, it is a kind of provision that in the constitutional court there must be at least a certain number of judges, the highest courts. What the German Constitutional Court has, therefore, is that of the 6, that of the 16 judges of the Constitutional Court at least 6 comes from the highest courts, unfortunately not prescribed. I hope that we MPs in the first subsequent amendment of the Constitutional Court Constitutional Law will prescribe one such provision, because obviously if we don't prescribe it, there is a situation that we don't really respect the fact that we should have more judges in the constitutional court. That's what some colleagues used to talk about before me. Professor Pupovci spoke as well. He presented a picture of a possible Constitutional Court if these ten candidates are elected and unfortunately there will be no sufficient number of judges among them. It is unacceptable for us in the MOST that after we have appealed to the courts to contact us with their candidates, especially the Supreme Court, that we should make public calls to the two Supreme Court judges and that we choose only one on the board and that the other candidate, Judge Buljan, did not propose. I voted for it on the board, and we at MOST believe that the least we should do is propose both candidates from the Supreme Court as candidates for the Constitutional Court. I don't think this is a good message when we're already hearing from people like that so we don't finally suggest them because next time they probably won't answer. For example, Mrs Mirjana Juricic from the High Administrative Court who should also have a seat in the Constitutional Court and eventually withdrew her candidacy when she became aware that she would probably not be proposed. This reconstruction should have been an opportunity for a more quality and balanced composition of the court. However, there will be no judges in it, and there will be no university law professors in it. One candidate proposed is a professor at the Constitutional Law Department but unfortunately there are no professors and among the other three candidates, three judges who will still be in office by the end of 2017 also have no university law professors. And I said for the first time in the history of the Constitutional Court among 13 judges there will be no law professor. I, who come from the university community and who come from law school and from the Department of Constitutional Law, will not be able to explain that fact to my colleagues and colleagues. I was convinced that when we choose 10 judges that at least two of us would have from the academic community of professors. It doesn't have to be constitutional law, but some other discipline of law. And I have to say that we talked about teachers and that some of them were in serious conversations to be on that final list. And I'm truly sorry they're gone. I voted on the board as well as my colleague. Baric and for Prof. I also believe that this should have been a minimum of two persons, two professors, a professor and a professor who had to be proposed by the Constitution Committee, or in a broader sense than the representation clubs. If we choose 10 judges, there must be room for those two candidates. And that, of course, saddens me deeply and trust me that a certain reaction from the academy won't be positive. MOST is also not satisfied with the fact that instead of several professors and several judges, three active representatives are proposed for the first time in history, therefore members of this House. We're not talking about people here, about their qualities. They must have made a significant contribution to the work of this House over a number of years or in the executive authority or perhaps earlier as lawyers. However, it has never happened to propose three MPs, so 30G% of the number we now propose without having some other structures. When you take all this into account we'll get one constitutional court structure for the next 8 years which will be all just not really court. There will be an extremely small number of persons with experience of the judge or trial and it will be a body that I would sooner compare with the French Constitutional Council in which representatives of the executive authority and the legislative and least actually judges come. But we have the Constitutional Court and by tradition of the German or Austrian Constitutional Court, there should be professors and judges in particular. If you looked at the composition of the German Constitutional Court, and I said our model was very close to German, you'd see that the highest professor of law and judges of the highest German federal courts. So they pick them with a two-thirds majority. And that's where the German Parliament chooses them and that's where the parties propose them as well as here. It's all the same, but why is the final result different? Why they choose prominent professors and judges of the highest courts, and we at least choose judges and don't choose teachers at all. So it's not the model, it's not the two-thirds majority, it's not the requirement that we have that high degree of consensus. The fault is actually I would say this political culture in certain political parties that tends to ultimately select candidates on the basis of the smallest or lowest common denominator, not the highest. And that's not good. And believe me, in public, this choice will still be more negatively accepted and that the other plan will be the fact that we chose judges, that there will be no constitutional crisis, than this other one that their quality is actually not at that level. MOST would not lead to the constitutional court's blockade with the election of six judges, mostly without disputed moments and for which it would vote here between 120 and 130 MPs, we would not have the Constitutional Court's blockade. But we wouldn't choose the other four, we'd look for better solutions for them. So we wouldn't even have a blockade, and we don't have to say that we had to choose 10 necessarily. And finally, let me just say something to Professor Pusic I'm sorry he's not here. I'm sorry, you weren't sitting. [[Pusic: There she is, there she is.]] But I'm glad to say it anyway. At one point you said that when we're here that we're primarily politicians. I'm here first of all a professor, and only after that is a politician. And that's why I said that because you said that I must first of all follow the political criteria. But the criteria and that's what I expected you to represent, that as a teacher, you can't stand up for a constitutional court solution that doesn't have any professors. That was the intention of what I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10995	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused several replicas. She is the first to be the respected representative of Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10996	Thank you very much. You said you wouldn't support four candidates. One for reasons of plagiarization... [[The noise in the hall, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10997	Comrades and colleagues, please let's calm down.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10998	And three because they're MPs. When it comes to selecting judges of the Constitutional Court, it is highly likely that a number of candidates will have all the relevant conditions required by the Constitution or by the Constitutional Court law. For example, it is not doubtful that there will be a large number of legal experts, professors, judges, various state officials among them and parliamentary deputies, executive officials who will not be challenged by their expertise. From what I've said to conclude that I find it natural that a parliamentary representative didn't lose his expertise because he's a parliamentary representative if he's a lawyer. Am I a plagiarizer for what I just said? I think you'll all say I didn't. But I did, I'm a plagiarizer. I read exactly what Mr. Podolnjak wrote in his scientific work. I was quoting from a word of words. So much for plagiarism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u10999	Thank you. The Honorable Vice President of Dom Podolnjak will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u11000	I didn't understand until the end, you know what plagiarism is? When you write something in your scientific paper that was written in someone else's scientific paper. That's what we were talking about. So it's doubtless that it's plagiarized if you want to quote it correctly. But if you have quoted the constitutional provision, it speaks of the order of which judges of the Constitutional Court are elected, and then it says from the order of prominent lawyers, particularly judges, state lawyers, lawyers and university professors of legal science. So did the founder put MPs here as well? I didn't read that, did I? But he put in university professors of legal science. So what it says in the Constitution you don't suggest but what it doesn't say is what you suggest. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u11001	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mark Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u11002	Thank you, Mr. President. Professor Podolnjak, I agree in most of the exhibitions with your presentation, but what I would add as perhaps a parallel, which is when you spoke about the fact that there is no constitutional right professor in the Constitutional Court that we have been the last two weeks but in particular the last week of one and another option, especially the options on my right, heard about how to remove a handful of policy from education reform, how we advocate with education, and then neatly these representatives who said this would raise their hands coldly to politicise the Constitutional Court. Do you see that parallel between that and that?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u11003	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u11004	Thank you, Mr. President. I read your scientific paper in 2007 explaining the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia in a comparative perspective. And your exposure today is a significant step away from this scientific work nine years ago. You are well aware that in this scientific work you also support the very choice of judges by a two-thirds majority, where the crucial role of the majority parties in Parliament and you list examples from a number of countries that choose constitutional judges in the same way and thus state what I agree with you, which is that there is insufficient possibility of compatriating the expertise of a single candidate for the Constitutional Court judge. As for your remarks that there are no Supreme Court judges and you and I know very well what the reason is. The reason is that there are better conditions in the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court judge has been elected until his 70th year of life and has a higher salary. So perhaps there is a rabbit in that bush, and there may be reasons why someone or most of the judges at the Supreme Court in Croatia did not report for the position of constitutional judge. And one more thing, I think today's election proposed a candidate who is a professor or a doctor, and that's exactly the doctor of the constitutional department. It's Mr. Maro Jelusic. I think he's a professor at the Constitutional Law Department. So, from what was proposed, it seems to me that this is one proposal that contains exactly all those lawyers as proposed by the Venice Commission and covers a simple full spectrum of legal experts in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u11005	Thank you. The Honorable Vice President of the House Robert Podolnjak will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u11006	I'm glad you read my work, but you didn't read it well. I also told the speaker that the role model in my work was the German way of electing judges of the Constitutional Court because the fact that we here in the Parliament chose judges but qualified by majority. And I purposely said that the model is the same two-thirds majority of the parity of choosing the legislative body. But now you have to be aware that I said that the most common university professors and judges of the highest courts are going in there. That's exactly what you're proposing today. And when you said the Supreme Court judges didn't really want to go to the Constitutional Court because the pay's lower, that's not true. We've actually leveled the pay by law. And secondly, I said there was a Supreme Court judge in the contest. So if we had two candidates from the Supreme Court, why didn't we both just accept one? And in the end, I said that the professor is gone because the only one coming from that academic community is a doctor, not a professor, let's be exact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u11007	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Milorad Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u11008	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Podolnjak, in the part where you spoke, or I may have misunderstood the competences of the proposed candidates and I believe the chosen ones. You mentioned three of our colleagues, i.e. my colleague Antičević, I will say the name of my colleague Josip Leko and my colleague, Llakar, who can in some ways state the impressions and legislative authorities as well as executives. So I think their competences are that Article 129 speaks. The Constitution what is the Constitutional Court? It decides on the consent of the law, decides on the consent of other regulations, assesses constitutionality, decides on constitutional suits, etc. If I didn't, I believe, and I know that together you know, I don't see what their jurisdiction in terms of the Constitutional Judge would be less capable of than university professors, given the competences they have and experience. In fact, we had several months back of a certain correspondence through printed and other media, a few can't remember exactly what names they were, about which names, exactly which people were presented as constitutional experts. And I can tell you that neither, I think there were three or four of them that didn't agree with each other. Each one had his own opinion and attitude. I wouldn't want to, and I believe all of us here are left with the Constitutional Court, or constitutional judges in the future that they don't know what to do. That's one thing. The second thing, you mention certain recommendations, is what was said and our club's position, so you need to change either the Constitution or the constitutional law so that certain criteria that you represent can be respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u11009	Thank you. The Honorable Vice President Robert Podolnjak will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u11010	The fact that several speakers pointed out that we had never elected three active representatives for the Constitutional Court judges in history. The last case you will likely recall is former representative Mr. Mato Arlovic, who was a prominent representative in this house.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u11011	My colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to be quiet.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u11012	But he wasn't elected as an active representative, he was elected after the term of office. The last one chosen as an active representative was Mr. Vukojevic 20 years ago, I guess. And the other thing you forget, when you choose active representatives and you choose a larger number, you have to bear in mind that in any case a certain law in which they took part would have to be excluded from the decision because they actively participated in the debate and decision-making. Those laws should not be decided by the Constitutional Court. So imagine all these laws that the Croatian Parliament adopted in which they participated in one way or another, were in the parliamentary majority or in the opposition they would have to exclude themselves. So I can't decide. It's one obstacle that's very relevant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u11013	Thank you. And the last replica is the distinguished MPs and vice president of Mrs Vesna Pusic's home.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u11014	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll only hold on to what you said to my colleague Podolnjak that you're here primarily as a professor. Since you've finished polythology and finished and doctored law, you need to know that you can't be here as a professor, neither you nor I. We are all professors at college, university, doctors, carpenters, whatever you want in your civic career and existence, and here we are all parliamentary representatives in other words politicians. For this people have chosen us, chosen to care for us here in accordance with their knowledge and experience and attitudes to defend the interests of the country and represent the interests of citizens and perhaps to say that we need less read books, or less knowledge, I'm not even sure because I've been doing both, but perhaps you can say that we need less knowledge and read books than for a university professor. But I'm sure it doesn't take less responsibility than much responsibility. And this is the moment of responsibility. A luxury in which, I would also prefer that university professors may be from different sides of the country, but the luxury in which a man can say I don't like these guys enough so let's all go to waste, let's put ourselves in a situation where we won't have a parliamentary majority or a constitutional court so we can organise elections. It is a responsibility that every person in this House must bear as a politician or as a politician. And that's the difference between now hiding in our private civic profession and our public figures. Our public figures must have that responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u11015	Thank you. The Honorable Vice President Robert Podolnjak will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u11016	I still don't agree with you that I'm just and above all a politician. There are more important things than that, and I'm not the only one who said it here. He also said the esteemed Professor Pupovac, because he also said he couldn't vote for someone who, due to certain failures in his scientific action, couldn't be a candidate for the Constitutional Court judge. At the moment he said it, he said it as a member of the academic community, as a professor and secondly put what he was a politician. So he simply couldn't accept voting for someone who was conflicting with the basic principles of scientific action. So that's what this is about, and that's why I said I was a professor here. And finally, tell me how I'm going to get in front of my students and tell them at law school that what they're learning, that one day they're going to doctor, that becoming professors means they won't get a chance to enter the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia? What kind of message am I gonna tell them? To be the best, the most excellent, the best schools anywhere in the world but you won't be judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. I'm afraid I'll have to tell them now after this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u11017	Thank you. On behalf of the National Minorities Club, the next one will be taken by the esteemed representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u11018	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Podolnjak, don't tell your students that, at least don't say that now. You do your job here, where you are selected, where you have more functions like I did when I became a politician which is an honorable profession and an honorable call and a mission if you will, as did Vesna, as many others, stay here, do full time as a politician because it's honorable and then one day come back and do full time as a professor because both of these calls in my opinion, in my opinion require you to be full time because in two places you can't be at the same time. The National Minorities Club will not vote for members of the current Constitutional Court. The reasons can be numerous and out of these 10, right, the reasons can be numerous but I will only mention that the Constitutional Court abolished the Constitutional Law on National Minorities 3 months before the elections and thus changed the entire election rules and completely set up a new way, in fact returned in an old way when we all thought we had passed a real Constitutional Court voted for by two-thirds of this Assembly, demeaning this Assembly. And you, Mr. Podolnjak, were then the expert who gave you the expert base for that thing to the Constitutional Court. So the Constitutional Court then changed the constitutional rules only for national minorities 3 months before the elections and brought us into an extremely strange position and in some way told us that we too were representatives of the second category. Because just before he said other things couldn't be brought in because in the election year you can't change constitutional, you can't change, you can't change, you can't change election rules. That's a fact, since all these decisions were made by consensus. We can't trust any of them and I've said it more than once from this pay phone, we can't trust any member of the Constitutional Court until now because they've been political too, nothing's going to change now, and they've been political, they've listened to politics. That you know how many I have seen also the candidate for the Constitutional Court, for the Constitutional Court of the World of the Universitys who have defiled here in front of the rooms of respected presidents in the past, the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, there were just as many politicians who asked there, a good opinion as the people of the university. Because I who came from the university many years ago know that in this world as well as in the world of politics there are experts and non-professionals, there are people and not people. And I agree with Mr. Petrin when he said why there's no more information about these people so we can evaluate them to the end. These are the people who will be the uncut tailors and the politics of this society for many years because simply after their decision we have no more rights, we barely have the right to comment but we have no right to change anything, the right to change for sure. What I am sorry and here I agree with Mr. Dolnjak and my colleague, Pupovac, I am sorry that there are not enough judges here because the Constitutional Court is still the court that rules. If something's missing from this Constitutional Court are just judges. But they also missed the last Constitutional Court. Of course, the people who came from politics were not missing. We've changed a law here to bring one member of the Constitutional Court into the Constitutional Court. And not only did we change the law, it was for Mrs...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u11019	My colleagues and colleagues, I am asking nicely to allow my colleague Radina to speak and it is not appropriate to listen to the direct transmission of what the Prime Minister is saying during this session. I know it's interesting, but it's not appropriate. Here's your colleague, Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u11020	I agree, I agree with Mr. President, listen to me, not the Prime Minister, please. We changed the law to allow Mrs. Clear Omey to enter the Constitutional Court then, after which she became the President of the Constitutional Court and did numerous damages not only to those I had noticed before, which I had mentioned before. We also had to choose in the same package because this side of the request is also Mr. Vice Vukojevic who was not any candidate for the Constitutional Judge but what he thinks, let him say whatever he wants but I think that's what I say from this pay phone and both of them have entered the Constitutional Court. Politics has always been there, whether it's a sin of structure or we're in the head because it says well in this case Mr. Podolnjak, the Germans have a similar system but come up with different results, whether it's a sin of structure or a sin of mentality, I can't know that I'm just saying these constitutional courts while they're chosen in this way and especially with such mentality will produce political constitutional courts. And it's been so far. You didn't listen to us from the national minorities when we told you it was evil to change three months before election rules. We told you, we held press conferences but both left and right were pulling on it because it was simply a convention for them. As you can see and change the law for the Constitutional Judge and make judgments that are not principled then return, it comes back and now you're all saying it's a political court and not a judge and we're going to stick to it because we're stuck in a jam and we're going to have to choose people to at least have choices. I'm not going to enter names now, they're just saying that we're going to stick to principles and the principle is that he didn't give a man from the university or he's a man from politics, judges he doesn't have but whether he belonged to the team so far or not. Those who belonged to the team so far are actually judges who won't be elected. And finally, and finally to say something and to the benefit of those who represent that people from the university must be present. They certainly had to be there because Mrs. Sanja Baric and Mr. Potočnik must have been part of this Constitutional Court. They would improve this Constitutional Court, give higher quality, at the end of the quality Professor Baric was not elected by a few votes and would give them dignity. I'm saying I don't know if it's a sin of structure, I don't know if it's a sin of method. I have the impression that it's a sin of our mentality and everything else is demagogy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u11021	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. The first is the esteemed Vice President Robert Dolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u11022	Dear fellow Radin, you mentioned my name in the context of the Constitutional Court's decision to abolish the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities. I must say that was in a situation where the Constitutional Court must have called all professors of constitutional law the only time in history to give them an opinion on the constitutionality of this constitutional law. It was unanimously the opinion of all professors that certain provisions were not in line with the Constitution. So, I wasn't the only one, but all the teachers who then decided that some of the provisions were not in line with the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u11023	The replica will be answered by the esteemed representative Furio Radin. Please keep your voice down in the theater and listener, I hope.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u11024	So I agree absolutely with what I said before that there are professors and professors, politicians and politicians, in this case teachers simply supported politics and did what politics tells them. That's what you did that time Mr. Podolnjak and we told you on the board because you applied two totally different criteria for two different things, for two of the same things. So you haven't changed the election rules once because it was in the election year. And the second time you've changed election rules and copy pastes, you've brought a little new law and old law together and done one nakarada thing that actually speaks of the expertise of you who gave such an opinion and other constitutional experts.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u11025	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Vilibor Sinčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u11026	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. So I just wanted to update my colleague when he was talking about changing the rules, changing the laws of those before the elections about what happened in 2015 in the context of parliamentary elections. So that year we had three common criteria. At the beginning of the year it was worth the old election law, then the signings were introduced, so it changes it so-called. the female quota, in part, the preferential vote, etc., to bring it down at the end of the year, so part of the criteria has been left behind, part has been shifted. The rule that parties and ballots disagree on the ballot would come after that in one way or another. This has led to great confusion not only among parties that have not so much experience but also with citizens and voters. It's a bad message for the development of democracy. Here's what I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u11027	Thank you. The esteemed representative Furio Radin will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u11028	Thank you, Mr. Son. Not only do I agree with you, it may have been even worse than what was done with the Constitutional Law. It's a girl's quota thing, for example. with the quotas of women who were interpreted in one way and I remember it was not the first time the President of the Court and previously interpreted equality in candidateing, sexual equality as something that was not defined although the Council of Europe has long defined equality as at least 40% but this is so interpreted. That's to say what led us to say that we don't vote in favour, that we don't vote in favour of members of the Constitutional Court, whether they're from the university or from politics, which were so far part of that constitutional team.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u11029	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u11030	Dear colleague Radin, you have one easy circumstance because most of you here did not listen because she was listening to something else. I understand that under these circumstances you had to speak in the language of a constitutional-political fatalist. Because neither among professors nor politicians you see those who could save the Constitutional Court. But it's the only circumstance that justifies you. In other words, that you fought with the marble and expectations from a press conference what news will arrive, and then under these circumstances... Involved in constitutional-political fatalism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The other thing I'd like to say is, of course we can vote here as a criminal demarch for the wrong actions of the Constitutional Court, but I still think we should run the criteria that we still have in mind about what the Constitutional Court should look like. And that is a minimum, and for this reason we will support those people by those criteria that the Chairman of the Constitution Committee and the political system have read, quoted from the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court which says which groups should be represented in the Constitutional Court, and most of them, of course, are not, and one part is over-represented, and for this reason we will vote so that we will contribute not to all being represented. In doing so, we will probably do damage to some, and on the other hand, the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court clearly states that they must be persons of respect in the profession, in the public action and in their experience. And those who have done so in any way, we will not be able to support them.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u11031	Thank you. The esteemed representative Furio Radin will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u11032	I didn't hear you very well because everyone was talking while you were talking, so I didn't hear you. But I understand that you're defending your crew. I mean, we're friends, so I get it. But I still think that when a representative becomes a representative, when a politician becomes a politician that he should give more room to younger assistants to make their careers and deal with politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u11033	Thank you very much. And lastly, colleagues and colleagues, please a little peace so that distinguished representative Ivan Willibor Sincic can tell us what he's up to. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u11034	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Here I'll be short after the council's concentration is broken. So this choice for members of the Constitutional Court reminds me of that fictional contest, i.e. Three contests in Vukovar that I described. The procedure has been called in. People are called, but in advance they knew who would get it. That's how I'd say here that maybe 30 more people from here shouldn't have come or tried, it all came out in advance. The political court is that Constitutional Court. You know that. No one can get anywhere without 101 hands or close. This is today for those of us who believe in democracy and the direct democracy of the triumph of politics, the politicization of institutions. This is the triumph of the decade of political institutions. The Constitutional Court has always proved to be an institution that defended the status quo. There comes a referendum and a folk initiative 400, 500, 600, 700 thousand signatures, unconstitutional. Some law comes unconstitutional. Sanader's sentence is unconstitutional. Our INA lawsuit failed because the verdict was eventually brought down. Here I see in these candidates preparing for some future things, which is that I probably don't know the verdicts of Bandic, Linic and Karamark, for example, and I won't support any of these candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-03-0.u11035	Thank you very much. I would therefore conclude the debate and move on to a vote on the motion for a decision on the election of 10 judges of the Constitutional Court. I stress that the choice of the Constitutional Court judge requires a two-thirds majority of all MPs in accordance with Article 126. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The constitutional law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia stipulates that representatives of the Croatian Parliament vote individually on each individual candidate, the proposed candidate. On the basis of this article, I am voting on the proposal to elect Mr. Andrej Abramovic as constitutional judge. Please engage and vote who's in favour. The vote is over. Please score? 136 for, 2 abstentions, 2 against. I find that Mr. Andrej Abramovic has received the necessary majority of votes and has thus been elected judge of the Constitutional Court. I am now voting on a proposal to elect Mrs. Snjezana Bagic as constitutional judge. Please engage. Let's vote. Who's in? I'm asking for a result. 112 votes for, 6 abstentions and 20 against. I find that Mrs. Snježana Bagic has received the necessary majority of votes and has thus been elected judge of the Constitutional Court. I am voting on the proposal that Mrs Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic be elected judge of the Constitutional Court. Please vote. Who's in? I'm asking for a result. 117 votes to six abstentions and 15 against. I find that Mrs Ingrid Antičević Marinovic received the necessary majority of votes and thus was elected judge of the Constitutional Court. I am voting on the proposal to elect Mr Branko Brkic as constitutional judge. Please vote. Who's in? I'm asking for a result. 132 for, 5 abstentions, 2 against. I find that Mr Branko Brkic has received the necessary majority of votes and thus has been elected judge of the Constitutional Court. I am now voting the motion to elect Mrs. Lovorka Kushan as judge of the Constitutional Court. Please, let's vote. Who's in? I'm asking for a result. 136 for, 2 abstentions and 2 against. I find that Mrs. Lovorka Kušan has received the necessary majority of votes and thus has become the judge of the Constitutional Court. I am voting on the proposal that Mr. Mario Jelusic be elected constitutional judge. Please, let's vote. Who's in? I'm asking for a result. The vote is over. 130 for, 6 abstentions and 3 against. I find that Mr. Mario Jelusic received the necessary majority of votes and thus became a constitutional judge. I am now voting on the proposal to elect Mr. Josip Leco as Constitutional Judge. Please, let's vote. Who's in? I'm asking for a result. 118 for, 4 abstentions and 16 against. I find that Mr. Joseph Leco has received the necessary majority of votes and thus has become a constitutional judge. I'm voting on a motion to elect Mr. Davorin Mlakar as constitutional judge. Please, let's vote. Who's in? I'm asking for a result. 117 for, 2 abstentions and 16 against. I find that Mr Davorin Mlakar received the necessary majority of votes and thus became a constitutional judge. I am voting on the proposal to elect Mr Rajko Mlinaric as constitutional judge. Please, let's vote. Who's in? I'm asking for a result. 134 for, 3 abstentions and 1 against. I find that Mr Rajko Mlinaric received the necessary majority of votes and thus became a constitutional judge. And finally I am voting on the proposal to elect Mr Miroslav Šumanovic as constitutional judge. Please vote. Who's in? I'm asking for a result. 134 for, 2 abstentions, 2 against. I find that Mr Miroslav Šumanovic received the necessary majority of votes and thus became a constitutional judge. Our colleagues and colleagues selected 10 new judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. Congratulations to the Constitutional Judges and Judges, especially our fellow Members of the Parliament, it is my own, and I wish them a great deal of success in their work and that they are responsible and honorably carrying out this responsible duty. . [[Applause.]] Good morning. Now, before we begin, I can see some hands in the air, so the first thing I see is the distinguished representative, Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
