ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7896	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. My address will be very brief for one simple reason why this meeting of the Supervisory Board appointed by Parliament on 3 July 2015 did not take part in the activities of monitoring the legality of HRT's work for 2014. So we were appointed on July 3, 2015, we were established on July 10, 2015, and we faced the need to make a single report for 2014, given that this requires the Law on HRT and for the continuity of the work of the Supervisory Board as the bodies of the HRT. So we were obliged to deliver a report. And in our conclusion, we decided on this form, this form and content of the report, which is actually one technical report, given that the current assembly of the Supervisory Board, therefore I repeat and stress that fact did not participate in the activities of monitoring the legality of the work and business of HRT in 2014. Since the previous meeting of the Supervisory Board has not been carried out for reasons that are not needed to speak, we have therefore faced the legal obligation to do so, and the only possibility was that in this form, the form of a technical report with a review of the tax-listed sessions and the most important conclusions of these sessions we should inform in the form in which this only objectively was possible this meeting of the Croatian Parliament. Now, that would be all, I only ask that you bear in mind the fact that this meeting of the Supervisory Board that we do besides me as President Mr Miroslav Grgić, Mrs Katarina Bakija Deputy and Mrs Anja Šovagović and Mr Mario Raguž in front of HRT employees did not therefore participate in the supervision of the legality of the work and business of HRT in 2014. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7897	Thank you very much. We have one replica. Excuse me, two. She is the first to be respected representative of Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7898	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Chairman of the Supervisory Board, it is strange not to participate or prepare what your predecessors have prepared and refer to the Croatian Parliament. Since the 2013 report clearly showed everything on 180 and several pages detailed the work of Croatian Radio Television, all failures, everything that happened, you have drawn up the report as for small children and not for the Croatian Parliament. No matter what your mandate is. I believe that you have been responsible and obliged to put everything that the previous Supervisory Board has recorded in the cover and direct so that MPs can see in the Croatian Parliament what was happening, what were the orders of the principal, why they did not execute them and what they did. I think there's a rabbit in that bush, and that's why the senior board of supervisors has been changed so the truth doesn't come out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7899	Thank you. The esteemed president, Shenol Selimovic, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7900	Dear Mr. Representative, under the Law on HRT, the current Assembly of the Supervisory Board has no authority and is not able to evaluate the work of the Supervisory Board in a valuable manner, therefore, analytically. So even if we wanted to do that, we couldn't because we're neither competent nor measuring nor the law gives us such powers. So we had no insight or opportunity or knowledge of the surveillance of the former Board of Supervisors since we took office on 10 July and this report refers to 2014. And I think we did what was objectively possible in the Parliament. We actually had three options, to just write a memo that we didn't do surveillance like we didn't. Let's get you one of these transparent tax lists of sessions and conclusions, or maybe we can do that to send you all possible records, calls, but what would seem inappropriate and inconclusive to me is that it wasn't then a report, but it would be an archive actually ex-convocation of the Supervisory Board. So there was simply no other way and we can't go into the supervisory board's evaluation of the work in 2014 in which we didn't monitor.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7901	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7902	Dear Representative of the Supervisory Board, my question I've been asking for days. It's a question of the purpose of our fellow citizens means a subscription which, due to three wars, 200 kunas, 240 more, is imposed on them by 1,000 kunas. What you're planning to do, and I'm asking you to completely, means that contract with these public notaries, lawyers, is annulled, i.e. That the employees do it because there are 3,000 employees on HTV, so I guess there are 20, 30 lawyers who can do it and not that we allowed our citizens to be robbed at the expense of someone and the law allows them to perform HRT because it is unfortunate that public television is doing it, as well as the issue of government representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7903	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7904	Thank you very much. In your opening part, maybe you didn't say the most important thing. And it can be read from the report, which is that the director of the HRT has persistently refused to conduct a special accounting section for the part relating to the fees collected and the commercial part. If I am not mistaken against all past years until the law has been amended, I think in 2008 that the tax is not subject to VAT payment was precisely in that payment of VAT obligations because HRT has constantly used the right, a deduction to VAT and what is not VAT instead of this part. And also because of the contract with the Republic of Croatia and due to the amount of tax, it would be good to see from the billions and 300 million indicative how much is actually spent in accordance with the contract with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and how much of that money ended elsewhere. And look, if they did not spend these billions and 300, but a billion 100, then they created a prerequisite to reduce the fee to Croatian citizens in the following year, and this is how it is clear to avoid a transparent management of finance, and I already said here yesterday in the debate, it is not small money. In the Republic of Croatia, about $13 billion per income tax is collected annually, and here is a billion and 300, so that's 10%. It's like raising the income tax rate to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia 10% and having to pay it. And then the one to whom we give these management funds simply doesn't want to inform us that we see in accordance with the HRT Act and according to the contract signed with the Government of the Republic of Croatia why these billions and 300 kuna were spent, while at the same time ready to smoke each day on their shows as it is not transparent, unfair and anyway. Well, let's let everyone sweep first in front of their doorstep and then tell us more.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7905	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? Yeah. Dear Andrija Mikulić, chairman of the Committee on Information, Information and Media. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7906	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of the Supervisory Board, deputy minister, respected colleagues and colleagues. At its fifth session held on 13 April 2016, the Information, Information and Media Committee discussed the report on the work and implementation of the supervision of the legality of the work and financial operations of the HRT for 2014. The Committee considered that report as a parent working body. At the time of the debate, the Committee held the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the report in question. In its opening statement, the president of the HRT Supervisory Board stressed that this Supervisory Board, appointed on 3 July 2015, did not participate in the activities of the HRT Supervisory Board in 2014 and decided to submit a technical report for 2014. For this reason, it does not contain value courts and assessments which would relate to the results of work and the implementation of the supervision of the legality of the work and financial operations of the HRT for 2014. In light of the opinion of the government, Ministry of Culture stressed that it cannot be concluded that things are in the Croatian state since the report is incomplete and incomplete. He said that the annual report of the Supervisory Board for 2014 that the review of decisions taken, conclusions, recommendations and opinions by individual sessions where, in certain cases, the director-general of the HRT has been recommended or imposed certain actions in which no food has been established according to these orders and recommendations. It does not show what measures have been taken in relation to the poor situation in relation to their own production. In its 28th session held on 30 September 2014, the Supervisory Board also proposed to the Director-General of HRT to act in accordance with the recommendations of the internal audit of HRT on the legal obligation to conduct separate internal accounting activities for the provision of public services and commercial activities. The Council for Electronic Media on the 4th of November 2015, which called for the delivery of evidence of the precise and envisaged plan of the activities of the Croatian Radio Television for the introduction of separate accounting for the funds stemming from the fee, i.e. the means stemming from the commercial activity of Croatian RadioTelevision. It can therefore be concluded that Croatian broadcasting did not fulfil this obligation in 2014 which raises the transparency of the use of the Croatian broadcasting fee and thus the business of HRT. He pointed out that it is clear from this that the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Radio Television has failed, among other things, to fulfil its law on the monitoring of the implementation of the provisions of the laws relating to the legal spending of fees and other revenues, because separate accounting was to be introduced in December 2011 in accordance with Article 49(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. HRT law. The Committee held that the previous HRT Supervisory Board had not worked well and was therefore resolved. On the contrary, most board members believe that the previous Supervisory Board has worked well, but has been resolved by the will of the then parliamentary majority. However, the Annual Report 2014 is incomplete and incomplete and therefore should not be accepted. Following the discussion, the Committee decided, in accordance with the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to put the majority of votes in favour, 2 votes against and 2 abstentions, to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: "A report on the work and exercise of the supervision of the legality of the work and financial operations of Croatian broadcasting for 2014 is not accepted."
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7907	Thank you very much. Does the Government representative want to further explain his opinion? Yeah. The Honorable Deputy Minister of Culture, Mrs. Anna Lederer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7908	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. The annual report of the Croatian Supervisory Board on the work and implementation of the supervision of the legality of the work and financial operations of Croatian broadcasting for 2014 cannot conclude on the right of the matter in relation to the legality of the work and financial operations of the HRT as the report is incomplete and incomplete. A review of the decisions, conclusions, recommendations and opinions taken by individual meetings of the HRT Supervisory Board in 2014 shall be given where, in certain cases, the HRT Director-General has been recommended or ordered certain actions, and it is not concluded whether it has been acted in accordance with these orders and recommendations. Therefore, it is not clear what measures the HRT Supervisory Board has taken with regard to its opinion on the continuation of a negative trend in reducing its own production of the HRT programme, which could ultimately significantly reduce ratings and obedience with significant consequences on the overall organisational and financial structure of the HRT in the coming years. This was carried out at the 27th session of 21 July 2014. Since the HRT Supervisory Board, on the proposal of the Director-General of HRT, adopts the HRT work programme and, in the opinion of the HRT Programme Council, is previously provided. Furthermore, on 28 September 2014, the HRT Supervisory Board proposed to the Director-General to act in accordance with the recommendations of the internal audit of the HRT and, as regards the legal obligation to conduct separate internal accounting for the public service activity and commercial activities, as per the principle of cost accounting, which has not been implemented. That the failure of this legal obligation is confirmed by the Council for Electronic Media in its report of 4 November 2015. As provided for in Article 23(1), The Law on Croatian Television The Supervisory Board has, among other things, to monitor the implementation of the provisions of the laws relating to the legal spending of fees and other revenues, it is apparent that the Croatian Supervisory Board has failed to fulfil its legal task, given that separate accounting was to be introduced after the year following the entry into force of the Law on Croatian Television, i.e. in December 2011 pursuant to Article 49(1) of that Law. It's final. The annual report of the HRT Supervisory Board is incomplete and incomplete. A review of the decisions, conclusions, recommendations and opinions taken by individual meetings of the HRT Supervisory Board in 2014 shall be given where, in certain cases, the Director-General has been recommended or ordered certain actions, and it is not concluded whether it has been acted in accordance with these orders and recommendations. This relates, inter alia, to the fall in own production of the HRT programme and the introduction of separate accounting for the public service activity and commercial activity. Following all of the above, the Government of the Republic of Croatia considers that the Annual report on the work and implementation of the supervision of the legality of the work and financial operations of the HRT for 2014 cannot be positively assessed, and proposes to the Croatian Parliament not to accept that report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7909	Thank you very much. Now I'm opening a debate and we're going to the clubs first. The first registered SDSS club Reformist, the respected representative Milorad Pupovac. He's gone. He's losing his right to express his opinion. The next club of MPs is that of SDP, a respected representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7910	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, the esteemed Deputy Minister, the Honorable Chairman of the Supervisory Board, colleagues and colleagues. We're in a rather absurd situation. There used to be a long time ago, and by the way it would have been said in fairy tales, some kind of supervisory board. There was a monitoring committee to report to this House. The supervisory board of ancient times failed to submit a report to this House when it was due to take place on 3 July 2015, so when it was past the time in which it was due to submit its 2014 Report. He's been replaced because he didn't do well. The supervisory board was off-limits, so it's been removed. Among other things, it is evident that he did not do well by failing to report to this House. So he was removed for a reason, justified. It was replaced by the parliamentary majority. She had serious reasons to resolve this monitoring committee and appoint a new one. The chairman of the new Supervisory Board took office on 10 July 2015. So seven months after the period for which this report is submitted. It is here that Mr. Shenol Selimovic is present. What to do now is to do a new supervisory board when the old and the bad have not filed the report but to collect all the papers, to see what this previous supervisory board was doing and to put it together in some kind of report and send it to this House. And that's what they did. Now, the Government of the Republic of Croatia says that what they did should not be accepted. The government, for example, says that this Supervisory Board, the old one, is careful to talk about the old amended Supervisory Board, at its 28th session of 30 September 2014 proposed to the head director of HRT to act in accordance with the recommendations of the internal audit of HRT as regards the legal obligation to conduct separate internal accounting for the public service and commercial activities as set out in the principle of cost accounting and not to be met. And all that's true, that's all true. The principal didn't do it. By order of the previous Supervisory Board. And the government because the previous Supervisory Board has failed to fulfil its duty suggests not to accept the report of this Supervisory Board. It's about like this, as if the government asked Mr. Vakula to submit a report on the forecast for July 12, 2014. And Vakula sends a report and says I was not a prognostic on that day but the forecast was that there would be a sun in Zagreb, and it was raining. So the prognosticist was wrong that day. And the government says you're not accepting this Vakula report. So this is not that illogical, this is sorry minus intelligent. I called this government tragic the other day at the current afternoon and received a warning from the president. And if this isn't a tragedy, then I don't know what a tragedy should be. We have a deputy minister here, a well-respected theatreologist perhaps the best in Croatia, so Deputy Minister, which theatre form is it if not in the tragics and in the farces? Which one? So, I've never seen a more tragic situation. A report of those who have only listed what they have done before is rejected. And what else do they do? They have no other legal basis. I can't judge what these guys did. There was nothing else they could do but do what they did. But you're looking now, the government is now asking for it to be rejected. Well, now I'm asking fellow MPs, we're of course going to vote against such a stupid, insolent conclusion as is proposed because he's illogical, he's silly, he's going to enter the annals of stupidity, political nonsense, into anals absolutely certain. Because the conclusion should read "A report of this Supervisory Board is accepted for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government". Because the Government's view states that the previous committee did not work well, and this is what this Supervisory Board found, and because this Supervisory Board found that opinion to be accepted. Well, that would be the only logical thing. But no, no, the government is proposing something absurd not to accept what's only possible. Pure tragedy! We will not participate in this tragedy, we will allow the public to make fun of it. You know, it's like, it reminded me that the deputy prime minister was answering questions and there was a question about 1,000 kunas for every newborn child. And he said no, we won't give to those who are socially endangered but to those who deserve it. Answering that question he said. So now they're making fun of him on actually the only television that would have the right to be called public television and collect taxes, the only TV N1. There Spreitz makes fun of him and says no, so the prime minister, the deputy prime minister or first prime minister of the government, thought well and he said we'll only give 1,000 euros to the rich because they're having rich children, and we won't give to the poor because they're going to give birth to poor children. And so we will increase all 1,000 euros in wealthy families, the wealth of this country. It's about that kind of craftsmanship. It's tragic. I don't know how, the HDZ will probably do what they have to do, vote for this absurdity. I ask MOST's men will you agree to participate in this farce, in this tragedy, well not Mr. Bulj, not him but the others, will you participate in this tragic situation? Will you agree to be ashamed of yourself? You have to come home, you have kids, she's gonna ask you Dad, Mom, so you could vote for this nonsense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7911	Thank you very much. Before we move on to replicas, I just have to remind an esteemed colleague that it's not true that he said here that he got a warning because he said that the government is tragic, it's quite allowed and everyone can say what they want here. You know very well why you received a warning because you violated the Rules of Procedure and you know it well and repeating inaccuracy I fear it will not exculpate you from what you have done. But now we're going to move on the replicas, the first one is the distinguished representative of Zeljko Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7912	Dear President of the Parliament, this is not about any other questions about what is tragic, Mr. Stazic's outbursts. Today it is the legality of the work and financial operations of the HRT and whether it was correct or not. Was that transparent, here, four years ago, one investigation was launched and the DORH charge went up and the USKOK against one person on HRT, the 58 million kuna issue that was stolen. Question 27. Ten. In 2016, members of the resolved Supervisory Board launched a criminal application to USKOK and also for millions of damages. Third, the contract on the lease of catering space inside HRT damage was done there by 2.6 million kuna with one company, who investigates it. Looks like the only thing that's standard on HRT is corruption and nepotism, that's what we're talking about today. So, Mr. Radman, how many boards does he sit in? And he paid himself to 45 thousand kuna gross if we know that by law... Directors of state-owned companies that this salary of 16 thousand is 800 kuna, somewhere around here, he paid himself and other political Yugoslavs in HRT today terrorises with the content of this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] People are resolved, what kind of lawsuits they will be, just because they disagreed with the ethical code where former Yugoslavs, UDBA-shi, KOS's, etc. are being placed. And that's why... on television forbidden any debate against the crimes of communism, economic crime against Croatian peoples, kidnappings, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For example. The Sevo family, the kid was nine years old, she was murdered, there was this investigation stopped on HRT, and we paid for it, and at the same time we suffered injustice,... on this matter, rather than this terror of corruption. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7913	Thank you very much. Time is up, the distinguished representative Nenad Stazic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7914	Since your replica didn't apply but absolutely not to any of my spoken words. I must conclude that it is not only a tragic government here, but individual representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7915	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7916	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, fellow Stazic would be good if you were at least this summary from the report that you read, if you saw that in 2014, there are 12 meetings of the Supervisory Board, if there were a summary, there are decisions, there are what it says about what the anomalies are like, which is imposed on the director of HRT, which he did not take. And that you were as zealous as you are defending or attacking this government at that time to the director of HRT, even though I know that in some situations you yourself were in some situations, who looked critically at him and his work, his intransparency and his hiding, his receiving. I believe that you have good intentions that today, safely from this, from these records and summary, you would draw out what is the essence and the core, which is that it was ruled by casso, dislocated, pleasurable and everything else on HRT. However, this report cannot be compared to 2013 for that supervisory board that was not valid. Look, that surveillance board that wasn't working was counting all the anomalies that happened on HRT. Well, we were hoping that this new convocation would at least put all the records in detail so that it could be this kind of material, that we could have something to read about how someone discussed, what decisions were made, what they were made for, and how. This summary is about something, you haven't said a word about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7917	Thank you. The honourable representative Nenad Stazic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7918	I agree with you, you object to the Supervisory Board, not to this, but to the former, that it has not accomplished its task. Well, that's what I said, they didn't do their homework, so we replaced them because they didn't work. But now what's wrong with the new board of supervisors because the old man wasn't right? What are these guys to blame now? Why do you refuse the report of the new Supervisory Board for the work of the old Supervisory Board? I'm sorry, but you're completely illogical, you're completely illogical.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7919	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7920	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My friend, you've said a lot of words here, stupid, stupid. I see you're a little upset, maybe it's understandable the last few months. Perhaps it would be more realistic than you, honestly, if you had said that this report was supposed to be in 2015 for 2014, that the previous government should have passed this report before the mandate of the former government, but you clearly don't know why you accuse this government so much and not the previous one. So it would be much more correct than you to hate to accuse then and the previous one you've been supporting, but you won't. And it's incomprehensible to me, in fact, it's even understandable to me why you're defending the former director of HRT, the former supervisory board, and you might be defending it because of your beliefs as you think, and you're most likely defending it because of that, really, whenever it turns on television almost you would be, you were literally on TV like you were out of pâté. So I understand that part, but it would be much more objective to accuse this government and the previous one, which is why these reports are late on the table of parliamentary deputies, not to discuss this mandate with the former reports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7921	The honourable representative Nenad Stazic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7922	Comrade Bull, you're absolutely right. This report should be discussed in 2015. You're absolutely right, because it refers to the period 2014. No, we didn't discuss it because the previous surveillance, the removed supervisory board we've replaced, didn't take it, and what to discuss when there were no reports, when the supervisory board didn't file it. So that's why we replaced them when they didn't work out, how many times do you have to do it again so you can figure it out? I don't know. You're telling me to defend the former principal, so I didn't mention it, not even mention it. I don't know where that came from. You're saying that during that previous period, I was really on TV. Well, it's probably because I had something to say here and what the press estimated that what I'm saying makes sense, unlike your speech, but I can't tell you there. You can set up whoever you want but it won't help you, if you're even shown by people, they'll stop watching TV here. So it's no use to you. You've also set up a new V.D. So I still show up on TV, and I guess because I have something to say to my colleague Bull, unlike you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7923	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ladislav Ilčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7924	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Stazic, you have mentioned three times that you have replaced the Board of Supervisors and you are leaving out the fact that two members of the Supervisory Board have resigned before that replacement. You've actually replaced three people, not five people. Why does it matter? For the sake of the other MPs and the public, I'm going to put it on the table because we don't have a report, so I can't back it up, but I'm going to say, there's a reasonable doubt. It all turns out that you see what the background of the thing is that just the ones who resigned wanted to blur some of the things that Mr. Radman did in that report and that after they failed, then you replaced the entire supervisory board so that the representatives and the public were actually clear what probably happened there and you set up a new board of supervisors. And when you spit on the government and call it absurd and I don't know how I don't have to say that the government can't approach them as a group of people, so now these five people are gone, we have no one to ask. So when the government asks for reports from the Supervisory Board, it has to get it because it approaches the Supervisory Board as an institution and not as a group of people who have left, so now we have no report. So it's about HRT over a billion kuna and we and the government need to have a full report. So, that full report doesn't matter to us whether she submits this or she, the composition of the Supervisory Board, in any case we have to get that report and we haven't got it. And that's why I find it justified that the government asks that the Supervisory Board, that there is a certain mechanism in which there will be some kind of interaction between one, another, and so forth. If we were to get that report, otherwise in all other state-owned companies, it could happen that the state simply doesn't know what happened for a year, so here's why one of the monitoring board went somewhere. Therefore, your efforts at the government are completely unfounded and populist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7925	Thank you. The honourable representative Nenad Stazic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7926	There is a mechanism, since it does not exist, there are legal obligations, the Supervisory Board has to submit a report to the government, the previous supervisory board has not filed a report. You say you know what was supposed to be written in a report he never wrote. I don't know what was supposed to be written. I wonder how you know that. Is that through Karamark's pair of intelligence services or through church circles. That's all I care about.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7927	The breach of the Rules of Procedure was raised by Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7928	Thank you. Article 238 and you, as chairman, were obliged to warn Mr. Stazic, is simply already degutant and lies about a pair of military services. Therefore, I think it is high time that a man ceases to tell lies and lies in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7929	I estimate that the Rules of Procedure have not been broken even though unfortunately in the last, here in this meeting, since yesterday and today, there has been a re-speak of hatred in this assembly and I appeal to all MPs to treat each other with respect and to the least extent with courtesy because it requires domestic education at the very least. Therefore, we can disagree, we can have completely different opinions, in the end we are in different parties, because we have different arguments but arguments rather than insults, labels, and it has unfortunately become a bad oss again. I appeal to all MPs not to do so because the people are looking at us and the people are estimating us, and that is why they judge us as they judge us. Therefore, I ask you all for tolerance and most politeness in each other's relationship. We would now move on to the next club of representatives, and this is the Club of Representatives of the HDZ and the Honorable Representative Jasen Mesic has a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7930	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of my presentation on behalf of the club I will join a few attempts to define this genre, a stage performance that we have the opportunity to watch in the Croatian Parliament when it comes to Croatian broadcasting since 2012. So we can't watch when we're looking at a musical, stage, musical-phase remark. We can't just watch the finals or the final act, we can watch the whole drama from beginning to end. And that's not exactly a tragedy, although many of us were sometimes funny, and sometimes to cry. It's more respected colleagues and fellow experimental theater, more performance. From the moment we started at all with the adoption of the new Law on Croatian Radio Television, shifts in 2012, and we further extended this through the entire range of media policy past the ruling majority in the Parliament, which conducted a completely incomprehensible media policy through the Minister of Culture, with the aim of managing the main media controls. So when we tried every legal version in that experimental theater that would allow us to keep the public media service on a short chain and when we failed to prevent some things under that law, then in March 2015 the Supervisory Board was resolved, not because it did not write the report, but because it brought a proposal to replace the Director. So it wasn't a crime to report it, it was a request for the Director to be replaced. And the principal, then Mr. Director, Mr. Radman spoke nicely to those who put him there and told the people this way, I can't keep up with what you expect from me. That Supervisory Board calls me. And the normal Supervisory Board has been removed. What a good message and a program council. Look, remember yesterday we had a debate, so we've been half-committing that there were some things written to warn you, watch out for what a good message. Don't accidentally go against Mr. Radman's principal, because there will be a solution. It's exactly what my colleague said earlier. Some of the members of the Supervisory Board defended, strongly defended the position of director. They gave him the right, however, when those members of the Supervisory Board were resolved, above all I think of Mr Rajkovic, who, as far as I know, submitted certain applications regarding the legality of work primarily in the area of spending money and transparency. Then at that moment, the same ones who supported Radman supported him, but immediately after that, they resigned. That's interesting too. I'll remind you of an event, an interesting scene of that experimental theater, and it's bound to remind you of that contract between HRt and ZAMP regarding copyright. You remember that contract of over 60 million kuna that was agreed in advance. That decision fell on the Supervisory Board if I wasn't wrong twice. It is only during the third session that some members of the Supervisory Board do not know in which way and we do not know how they were forced to change their minds. After that, the same Supervisory Board was replaced. Making a commitment in advance for over 60 million kunas. Now, if it were a practice with other copyright holders, for instance with HAVC, but it wasn't exclusively ZAMP. What was happening together may never be the most accurate finding because the report was not really discussed in 2015, regardless of what was already drawn up in mid-2015. Why didn't she come to the debate? It's hard to answer Mr. Rainer because he wasn't in this place at the time. Why didn't the report come as it is in the 2015 debate? Well, we at the HDZ Club didn't determine which points to discuss. Who told us not to discuss it then. It didn't suit anyone to discuss it. And of course, the report in itself is not just a matter of plus and minus and math, but it's probably about reports from this House so next time we don't make the same mistakes. This report as it is drawn up, regardless of what the new supervisory board could or could not have done, is composed of a surface that you are now being shown and publicly if you want members of the 2014 Supervisory Board that it is actually not the right state of things and that it is as such technically incorrect. As regards the 2014 Report, the 2013 Reports, the 2012 Reports and then we discussed the HRT reports. Criticisms from opposition MPs, some criticisms could also be heard from colleagues on this side of the assembly, but you know what caused the result of these criticisms? Nothing! Zero! When we're looking for pay data, let's say it's not to call someone a salary, it's to provide them with annexes about who is particularly rewarded on HRT, and then we're responsible for it being a secret and it's a violation of the law, that it's a corporate secret. Oh, look out, corporate secret. It's like someone's got a majority stock package so they control that media house. Then when we were preparing for a detailed debate at the Parliament, and in the meantime we had no data from the board, we had a situation where the President of the Parliament told us that it would not be discussed that morning because this afternoon or the afternoon before his cabinet came the material from Mr. Director Radman. Now, if we're following this interesting fabula of something that might look like a tragedy, and we think it's primarily experimental theater and performance, then we need this report as well as that report we discussed yesterday in that context. If you notice me, we are very valuable in the work of individuals on the board of directors who have warned of irregularities in the work of directors. But here, technically, we're discussing this report. Not to call and blacken someone, but to say by sending a message to our vote that the next time it comes, and that it is a suggestion and a new supervisory board that this report should be more pedantic than the supervisory board would have the opportunity, and that old supervisory board that was removed because of the opposition to the director had no opportunity. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I tried to say it yesterday in an individual debate, and I will try to say it now, there is no point in discussing reports on either the work of the Director-General or the work of the programme council or the work of the HRT Supervisory Board under such a legal framework which is obviously not good. I guess it's clear to everyone now, I hope. And under number two, it doesn't make sense if that debate doesn't contribute to the development of this topic in the future. Look at colleagues and colleagues on the media scene of Europe, where public media houses are going, as the segment develops, as money collected from the subscription is used as an investment tool for domestic audiovisual production. This creates an investment fund that can draw on a series of small businesses. And if you want to eventually encourage employment. Finally, this activity preserves cultural identity, which should be one of the strategic points of Croatian politics, one relatively small number of people who entered the European integration of 500 million people. Something that should be used to preserve language, to preserve influence, to survive if you want in these areas. We've tried to say it before. As if it didn't matter to anyone. The HDZ Club will vote in line with what we have said for the past 4 years when we have been in opposition, regardless of what may cause someone to cry and someone to laugh, but we will do it because of what I just said. Because we care that HRT is positioned in a way that will be able to respond to large Internet providers, which will be able to respond to large audiovisual content distributors, which will be able to protect their cultural and musical production, which will be able to protect their archives and will go into further digitisation and apply to European funds, hire young experts and be dominant in these areas. Often in this assembly, too, we have to provoke the injustice of the information program. And beneath our radar are huge funds from the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. There's information that individual equipment, computers purchased by the last HRT administration, is on the Leasing. So imagine that! We are much more interested in what will come out in financial business findings because we are really afraid that in this deep bush, various tragedies of entertainment shows and we could see that from the last administration of the experimental theatre and performance of what is actually behind it. The refusal of such a report is a message from the HDZ Club that we want to push it out. And that's why we're gonna do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7931	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused quite a number of replicas. The first one is the distinguished representative of Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7932	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Mesic, you have shown most of the things well, truthfully and clearly said what the problem is but when there is a report from 2013 that tactfully lists 400 names, 400 titles in Croatian media, printed, electronic about what has been happening in HRT for 2 years. Then, in 2014 it was clear that the Supervisory Board, which had done its job in 2014 and held 12 sessions, was resolved. And what is the reason for his resolution? As said by a member of the Supervisory Board who wrote a letter to the President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Rajkovic says that the report on the legality of the work and financial operations of HRT for 2014 is untrue, incomplete, non-transparent, and that HRT has not been legally working and financial. It is evident that 7 million kuna made less revenue than it was last year. What was the cause and cause of the resolution of the Supervisory Board? Mr. Craiger is... as a representative, he said that the reputation of HRT was violated by such concessions by members of the Supervisory Board. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that caused their resolution. And now we can talk fairy tales in this Croatian House like this and such to cover up malversions that neither the state's attorney's office nor the USKOK, nor anyone because they probably all smoke in the same pumpkin, there has been a solution of those who spoke about the truth, about nontransparentity, about failures, about the removals from the law, about malversions and the failure of incomes that were previous years. Here are the reasons, you clearly see in the letter that man wrote and clearly behind it... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7933	Thank you. The honourable representative Jasen Mesic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7934	I see Mr. Djakic that you've been following the situation closely on HRT lately, and I must say here's the reason I haven't been able to make such a decident statement in time, so I accept your replica well-meaningly. Imagine that message when, say, the leading HRT man is on the Committee for Conflict of Interest. This allegedly does not harm the reputation of HRT and those people who are calling for malfeasance are being persecuted because they allegedly harm the reputation of HRT. Imagine what the message was, I return to what was resolved when the Supervisory Board was elected, watch out for the votes of the parliamentary majority, so not by the votes of the opposition, but by the parliamentary majority to control the legality of the director's work. And the Supervisory Board adopts an opinion, does not work legally, should be replaced and the parliamentary majority who chose them to control the legality of work replaced them. And now they're surprised that we don't want to accept a technical report that is the way it is and that, of course, we don't intend to put it on the line of responsibility but the burden of responsibility to those who didn't let the old Supervisory Board make up a report. And that's how it's supposed to be. Let's not put ourselves in this situation anymore. Let's not do experimental theaters where it doesn't belong anymore. We're dealing with a vision that we talked about here at the last part of the time. We are dealing with those who will allow this public service to position pro futuro. Now, there's something you should know about, not just trying to control the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7935	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7936	My colleague Mesic, in my life, is the one thing that bothers me the most when we have different arches and measures. I'm going to remind you and your younger colleagues what happened somewhere like this this time in 2003 in this High House and it was an election year. At that time, the ruling majority, very similar to this Kukurik coalition, made a decision after the reports were discussed to remind HRT inspection services and to make reports there. Now they've done it, so they should have been disciplined for the election, but the record of it wasn't given by them but welcomed us when we came to power. So when we tried to charge that tax, that same team was chasing Brussels to choke on media freedom in Croatia. So they protested what they did. But I'm worried about something else, all those carers about, who care so much about the transparency of public finances, they didn't report that we couldn't get the information about the pay of the one we set up and who we pay and who we don't also care about the intransparentity of financial management. So isn't it logical if someone gets public authority and pick up a certain fee are the public powers you get from the Republic of Croatia, so from the Government and the Parliament that you owe the person who gave you that public authority to report, the more you make a deal with him about what you need to do with it how and how you spent that money. Do you really spend that money on what the law provides, or do you spend that money on something else, and then probably that commercial part would be much stronger, you would try a lot harder because a bunch of these ads would not end up on competitive TV and not get 70% for certain ads, and let's just say that if you went, you would be charged 100% more expensive. Why pay someone 70% commission?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7937	Thank you. The honourable representative Jasen Mesic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7938	Comrade Shuker, I must say that you have very competently diagnosed the existence of a public media service in two minutes. Of course, anyone can be a great economist and a great expert when they guarantee a billion and 300 million kunas of income. Of course, if there is no double accounting, then that possibility of tax collected falls because one of the European Commission is treated as one type of state support. And, of course, the success of the business leadership of HRT is precisely seen in how much further revenue will be made from marketing rights to what public television in limited minutes has the right to receive. If you're running a bad program, if you have a bad programming scheme and you're not trained to do it, then of course you're going to lose that income, but you don't care because you have a billion and 300 million kuna guaranteed, so you're going to get covered somehow, so you don't care if you have 500 million or 150 million kuna revenue. The smart administration would turn that around and try to make as much money as possible from commercial incomes so that eventually it could be cheaper and cheaper for citizens someday. And at the same time it's completely incorrect if you have the funds from the subscription used to realize commercial content. It is an inadmissible competition and unfair competition because in this sense you are then competing with commercial televisions that have the only chance to finance themselves from commercial incomes and end people the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7939	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7940	Thank you very much. A colleague of Mesic, you have well explained the sequence, everything that needs to be done when we talk about the report of the Croatian Supervisory Board for 2014. However, we heard the other side today on behalf of the SDP and cannot fail to determine that the SDP has clearly reset from 22.1.20156 to the status of the opposition. Now they're just surprised. They're surprised at all that they were power. They're laughing, they can't accept that they're doing something like ex-government. So that's what this story about the supervisory board's report is now called a tragic, tragic comedy because there's now something unacceptable about it. It's unacceptable to them what they've been doing. And we have seen ourselves in the last term of just such decisions, procedures, debates in this House by the authorities and the former government who in the world rated themselves as the sixth most incompetent government in the whole world, the sixth most incompetent we could say to the tragicst or the sixth most unseen tragedy in the world. Well, it makes sense for us to discuss the year after year on any report, so we can't skip any. But counterpart Stazic was able to question today whether there was even a continuity of government. Should we now, given that the new directors of some agencies are coming, the new ministers have come, the new heads of the other state bodies, if we could even discuss some reports from 2015, given that they will be new and they have been written by the old and they have been replaced. Only a fellow Stazic can do that because he claims to himself that he is so smart that HRT needs him almost every day to tell us something new. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7941	Thank you. The honourable representative Jasen Mesic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7942	Oh, dear fellow, look, this report show in the debate that reports were delivered in mid-2015, so they could have discussed the previous Parliament meeting, why not? It's hard to get into it now. I personally think that the ruling majority did not respond to this debate before the elections, and it was not discussed and they were more concerned with some other populist measures which we will see only with what fruit they will bear but I'm afraid they may have again laughter and tears and we will again think it's a tragedy and in fact there will be one failed attempt at experimental theatre. What is terribly important is that we take this report as a message in the future, that with as little situation as possible in the Croatian Parliament where we will have this, practically, situation without exit, and I will remind you it is nothing unusual. You had a situation that had been replaced by Mr Popovac's management at the head of the report, which he thought was Mr Novokmet, so you had Mr. Novokmet's period, so Mr. Radman's report was filed by Mr. Radman, and by no means with this very good legal solution from 2012 that has imposed on us the Kukrika Coalition on us never to get into a situation where someone submitted the report for himself. And that's what happened, you know, dear fellow, when the former director of HRT was here, so he filed a report on his work several times, so whatever question you asked him, he said either corporate secret, I can't, or he said, "I'm not authorized to program you!" and the law gave him such Pharaohic obligations that he was authorized to even control the porter and who works and comes to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7943	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Joseph Lek.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7944	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. A fellow Mesic, a rhetorical policy, a rhetorical policy. Yeah, you've been calling for your argument on the club's point of view, and that's a good attitude, I support that. And when you wanted to disqualify others, then you pulled out the details. That's a bad attitude. It's manipulation. Thus, disqualified nor can they defend themselves under the Rules of Procedure, nor is that true. I won't defend the report or the Supervisory Board, or the Programme Council, it's not my job, nor does it make sense now that it's a post-festum. But I must say that the exhibition is motivated precisely because of your desire that the current ruling interest in Croatian broadcasting is crowned by human beings in order for the new set to rule the public service. And I understand that. Unfortunately, it has been a practice in Croatia for 25 years. You need to take a step forward. It's not a matter of the interests of the ruling, it's a matter of the citizens' interest and there are, fortunately, different interests, they must be respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7945	Thank you. The honourable representative Jasen Mesic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7946	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Not exactly an esteemed colleague that it's been a practice for 25 years, that's not true. In 2010, a law was passed that sought political consensus. It was an attempt and a step forward that the opposition and position must agree. This insistence and this desire for Croatian radiotelevision to really mirror all left and right and central and upper and lower laws from 2012 failed. Therefore, it does not stand your thesis, and you are calling for the whole of 25 years to be watched, it does not stand. Because the 2010 law was something else, there was a desire for political consensus. You know very well that every time we try to criticise this very situation regarding Croatian broadcasting and we will continue. That's why I'm inviting you to look into the future at what I think I was saying on behalf of the club for the last part. I really don't intend to, and the HDZ club didn't intend to discredit anyone. We wanted to take this report as a lesson precisely because it awaits us in the future. There's no need to discredit anyone. It's really very transparent here. What we would like in the future is for these reports of the Supervisory Board to be more transparent precisely because we care about the future of a public media service, because it is indeed one of the pillars if you want an identity. That's the motive we've been talking to, and we're going to vote with that motive. Do not extract individual segments, however, of course how the parliamentary debate goes when the fellow Members encourage then and we know to give definition by the status of the individual... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7947	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7948	Thank you very much. My colleague Mesic, you spoke about the work of the Supervisory Board in the previous meeting and the decision to give consent to the conclusion of the contract with ZAMP, and you wondered whether you were sure that two sessions had been discussed. It's right in two sessions. It was first discussed on 13 June 2014, when the chairman of the Supervisory Board demanded special responsibility from members of the Supervisory Board elected by the parliamentary majority to vote, to vote in favour of consent, to give consent to the contract with ZAMP and HDS. But it did not go that way because there was a special explanation why it is done precedent that the bonds are required to give HRT to the Croatian company of composers and ZAMP, which has never been the case before. Why did HRT not make the contract, but only received the contract delivered by ZAMP. Why are all the unfavourable clauses at the expense of HRT and no question has been answered. In particular, it was why it was concluded three years in advance. Why does the responsible person on HRT live in an apartment over which he has a mortgage Croatian company of composers? Very interesting questions. However, pressure was put on to conclude such a contract. And then it worked at the 25th session of June 23rd when, with 3 votes to, 1 against and 1 abstention, they concluded such a contract. In fact, this contract is so clearly harmful that there are no decent words to describe a decent way to characterize this type of contract. If the state were to protect itself as HRT protected ZAMP, then even if it were to charge the state taxes, it would not be due to or debt as ZAMP charges in the state. Imagine the entrances to the pharmacy and offer to increase sales if they close the contract with the Croatian company of composers.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7949	Thank you. The honourable representative Jasen Mesic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7950	That's right, pal, you're all the details of that, and you might have called the crime scene a list to put it so vividly. Anyway, there'd be a nice documentary show about it. Research journalism is probably going to say something about it, because the data is really familiar. And, of course, the institutions to which it's like DORH are represented. But that is why, dear colleague, in our presentation on behalf of the club, we have made a distinction between the work of certain members of the Supervisory Board because indeed some members of the Supervisory Board have tried to banish such situations. And I'm sure, although I don't have any concrete evidence of it, but I guess they were under a lot of pressure, and when they actually managed to ask for Mr. Director's shift, they were replaced, among other things. And no matter what you said, they were not chosen by the opposition at the time, above all HDZ to frame the clips, to do misdemeanors, not to allow work, no. They were chosen by the ruling majority just to control the laws of business. And here are some members of the Supervisory Board that I greatly appreciate, they've literally figured it out. And they really started to control the law. And warned about these things. And they didn't want to give in to such harmful contracts for HRT, and then fate struck them. Now they're still called imagine they haven't even made a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7951	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Ladislav Ilcic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7952	Dear Mr. Mesic, I can't look at you because there's a microphone for me, but I'm talking to you. First of all, I would like to thank you for making it clear that you are not going with wood and stones to the entire work of HRT, but you are clearly dividing the critical speech according to this management because this relationship is obviously not working between the Director-General, the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council. And I would appeal once again to all the MPs and the opposition but also to our ruling coalition not to go no critical trees and stones to the entire work of HRT because there are really people who do as Mr Mesic said very good and commendable work and do it very well. Another thing, when you were talking about a conflict of interest just to mention one paradox. With Mr. Radman, it wasn't like a problem, and on the other hand, we have an ethical code on HRT that, for example, dealt with me as an employee. Let me explain to you that I, for example, should have gone on an unpaid annual campaign with an explanation that by playing the violin, I would have influenced the election results. I think it's clear to me that let's say one editor or journalist shouldn't be campaigning because even if he's as impartial as possible, the audience might suspect he's biased. But I really can't explain to anyone what party I'm rooting for by playing the violin. I think that's clear. So that's completely illogical what Mr. Shucker said was double standards. When we talked about shifts, it's always about 20 or 40 editors who were replaced by Mr. Novokmet, it's not about when Mr. Radman came that he practically changed everything by setting people up. And just in the end, what I sensed yesterday when I didn't realize that people with integrity in the programme council didn't insist on some things that it was actually now when we saw what it was like to be the relationship between the ruling coalition that simply removed those who criticized Radman that it was also pressure on the programming council. So this explanation of yours gives a very important explanation of what we discussed yesterday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7953	Thank you. The honourable representative Jasen Mesic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7954	A colleague can tell you know the situation on HRT as one real insider, I'd say in this case. However, I believe that you share our opinion that this should really be a lesson for us to work in the future and to insist on improving and constantly following the European trends of HRT. But to keep that part that is probably particularly close to you, something we also call music production, dramatic production, production of education programs, cultural programs and, of course, preservation of archives, its transmission into digital forms so that it can be used in the future. It's something that absolutely HRT won't be able to have any competition from anyone in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7955	Thank you. And now we're moving on with discussions on behalf of the counseling club. It is now up to the Club of Representatives of the HSU-Independent List of Stipe Petrina and the Honorable Representative of Stipe Petrina will take the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7956	I would like to thank Mr. President, I would like to welcome the representative of the Supervisory Board, Mrs. Lederer, the parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. Gentlemen, you've really made me tears in my eyes. This morning with your concern for public service called HRT. You made my eyes cry because none of you literally mentioned in these two days the ones for which HRT exists and these are Croatian viewers. So, in two days of discussing the report, about the programme council, about the programme, about the finances, you never mentioned the ones for which there is a Croatian television, not a single moment mention of those for whom this debate is being held. I think a special category of masochists who listen to this discussion must be very pleased. But let's go back to the subject of this report on HRT's work and, in particular, the financial report. I am not going to have much doubt and debate about the work of the programme council and what is mentioned in the production council or the production of the programme. I would especially like to say something about the distribution of the program and it is a subject that is insecure and it is a topic that has started everything that you've been pointing to today and in these two days, and it is possibly or truly a crime on HRT. So the production council and the programme council, how this programme will distribute to citizens if Croatian television does not control the distribution of its programme because a government and some Parliament have previously come up with a very good idea so that distribution and all distribution facilities have been separated from the HRT system and established a new company called transmitters and connections, founded a new company that was an absolute independent legal entity. There's this system of transmitters and connections, that's my intention. Why do I say that? If you give yourself the effort and the prosthetics of the HRT Act, pay attention to Article 34. The law on HRT and you'll see who pays the TV subscription. On the TV subscription this two days there have been speeches and I share the care of any representative on any side who has declared it, let’s say freely with one new tax, 80 kunas to pay, or 960 kuna per year for the program you want or do not want to watch is really very, very special for one category of citizens. In addition to what is known to be these funds and we have heard that it is even a billion and 300 million kunas illegal, not transparent and not purposefully used. In that article 34, the United States of The law on HRT is the last paragraph, the last sentence literally says TV subscription is paid by those on whose side, I won't quote the whole article, pay those whose area is covered by a TV signal. So those whose area is not covered by a TV signal are clear from the article that they are not paying for a TV subscription. One question for all, if HRT is a public service and is a public service, here we heard from Mr Mesic's presentation that it is necessary to preserve national identity, archives, digitisation, I completely agree. But as in 25 years of new, independent, independent, internationally and sovereignly recognised Croatian states, there are even areas of the Republic of Croatia that are not covered by a public signal. There are dear friends, respected parliamentary representatives and MPs that do not cover the signal is what stings me, especially infuriates me and my citizens of Primosten municipality very much. Namely, public service, television, especially segments that were singled out by transmitters and connections by acting literally feudal, dictatorial, arbitrary, on behalf of what. They put their facilities which distribute signals where they're fit, put these objects without permission, without respecting local procedures, stab pillars where they're willing, don't pay anyone's service, don't pay anyone what they do. And if you stand up to them as was the case in 2006 from Primosten municipality, then they show up to be violent. And what are they doing? They're shutting down in that area signal. Now, that signal removal, and now we're actually getting to the doorknob... the removal of the signal as a punishment for those who advocate legality, who advocate that the public service be equal to all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Question, says Mr. Mesic, experimental theater, it's not experimental, it's theater absurd. A theater of great absurdity. On one side, we stand for legality, we advocate respect for the law. On the other hand, we're doing everything the other way around. Let's get back to that case. So in 2006, Primosten municipality and citizens of Primosten municipality had no signal. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The law on HRT is clear now at this point how many of you are in the assembly and everyone who listens can read it. It's not hard, today the Internet is available to everyone, you don't pay TV subscription. A question for the HRT Supervisory Board, why the Supervisory Board, why HRT's policy is such that it persists through the interest and criminal law offices robbing the population of Primosten municipality. It's not one day, it's gentlemen for 11 years. Calculating how shocking a sum of 9 million kuna per subscriber in Primosten municipality was. So 9 million kunas in 11 years were robbed of illegal residents of Primosten municipality. That nine million kuna isn't complete. Because some people opposed feudal and robbery robberies by public service and did not pay. And they were sanctioned by who? Again from the notorious judges and courts. For what? I say, without any scruples, good morning, why are you doing this? And they say, so we have an instruction, we don't have to be judges if we don't protect the system. Good morning, it's a public service. So that 9 million is no longer 9 million that climbs a terrible 20 million kuna a year that has been robbed by the citizens of a municipality. So Mr. Chairman of the Supervisory Board your first move to question my allegations and lift that subscription, lift the illegal hack. But let's move on, some colleague of yours is gonna say or someone's watching what this guy's saying, so why didn't he stand up to it? We've been up against each other. First, this House, in particular, not this convocation, not the left, not the right, and one and the other were sent countless notions to all the constituency committees, and that wasn't enough. Even the criminal proceedings and criminal charges against the HRT that insisted against the then director of HRT Mr. Mirko Galic, who, given that man is sick, we eventually gave up but very concrete things we have not even learned about the public anymore. At this point, I insist, the criminal application that Uskok, which you are all so inviting here, I think I insist that the criminal complaint against HRT for the sake of a non-founded plea, insists on criminal charges against the law firm Hažekovic, because they have been sent countless times by a letter of litigation, has been sent in court hearings that what they are doing is illegal. So, dear friends, dearly speaking, do not call on legality when everything that happens outside the light or stage, this pay phone, everything is absolutely illegal. I'm asking you whose lumen it is that allowed the most crucial segment of HRT to be the distribution of what is produced separate from the HRT system. I ask you who allows these people to behave absolutely and ask you further Mr. Chairman of the Supervisory Board when citizens of Primosten Municipality and other citizens of the Republic of Croatia will finally get a TV signal. 25 years is a very big time, it's a very big period of one state, let alone a man, when you cut someone out for 11 years without a basic, therefore, TV signal. As a result of that signal, the State's Attorney's office sees which is very expedient, very expedient. When those who point out the illegalities are in question, he's pressing charges against the mayor of Primosten municipality, me. The indictment existes, only one debate was held, it is so thick but at that hearing it was proven that the municipality of Primosten has not had a TV signal since 2006. Question for you all if we don't have a TV signal why do we charge TV subscription? Or if a TV subscription is charged, whether it means that we have a signal, why is the indictment existed, such issues have been sent to the State's Attorney's office, to Uskoku, to the President of the County Court and to the Presidents of the Community Court, and these are the questions of gentlemen who should work HRT. It is clear that by changing the authorities in the Republic of Croatia and it is nothing new to me, until in this House, the Law that HRT truly will be a public service whose concern is to preserve the Croatian identity and watch out for this and the Croatian National Corps as a whole, when it says in general, does not only think about the Croatian people and the Croatian national Corps here in Croatia, I especially think of the Croats in Bosnia but I will say that one time in another. So, will HRT be a service to preserve Croatian identity and the national Corps as a whole, it depends on us. But you all agree on both the left and the right that HRT is prey and that's the first prey, whether you want to admit it or not, that's how it is. It is replaced by the first thing being appealed, first thing being struck, it is on HRT as the most influential medium in the Republic of Croatia and it should not be. It should sit down, agree on the concept of work on HRT, agree on who will possibly change from HRT by changing authorities. It doesn't mean that someone is good to the SDP or to the Growth Coalition that must be a patriot. I agree with that, it's the right of a winner, but let's make rules of the game that everyone will stick to and these things will certainly not be, especially not of this kind of discussion because I believe that citizens are justifiably defiant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7957	Thank you very much. My colleague Petrin is aware of the frustration that citizens for 20 years, as you said, have no signal for 25 years. Two things I must warn you, one must not call anyone a criminal here unless it has been decided for both of you and all of you and everyone else once again to discuss the legality of work and financial business for 2014. So now we have different replicas. She's the first one to be a respected representative of Branimir Glavas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7958	Mr. President. There is no dilemma about how the Supervisory Board worked until 20015, it worked illegally and was therefore removed. The point is that the 2014 report has been submitted by this current new Supervisory Board, which has not yet been in place for a year, so only less than a year has the mandate. A report on the work of the last, amended supervisory board appointed to me in 2014 where Mate Radeljić was also written to you by HDZ, the report was not submitted but submitted by this new Supervisory Board and, on the orders of the new Supervisory Board, by the secretary of the former Supervisory Board Mrs. Sebetovski, a certain lady whom I do not know and precisely this supervisory board, has given her the current order to make a report and she has done it because this Supervisory Board does not know what happened before them. The new supervisory board gave the current order to build a new statute of the supervisory board, changed that Mrs. Sebetovski and appointed and continued to work in accordance with the law. Why am I saying that? This 2014 report should not be rejected if you do not want to accept it, you can take it into consideration. If you refuse this report, I personally understand that you are conducting artillery preparations to replace the current Supervisory Board, which is not yet a year of office. So again, you show an unhindered desire to win Croatian radio television. Your mouth is full of reforms, so go to this field of reform as well. Stop acting in a pattern like you and they've been acting for 25 years. Every four years change everything on Croatian TV first. Show good faith and leave this Supervisory Board to do its job. You were planning on replacing this Supervisory Board maybe today. Don't do that. Please note this report and allow the Supervisory Board to carry out its mandate until the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7959	Thank you very much. Although, of course, nothing relates to what Mr. Stipe Petrina was saying. He'll answer that question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7960	I fully agree with what Mr. Parliamentarian Branimir Glavas said and there's no need to add. In addition, it would be very wise not to discuss these reports in the future but only to take note of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7961	The next replica is the esteemed representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7962	Thank you very much. You told your colleague, Petrina, that you would talk about the distribution of the program. However, the report of the Croatian Supervisory Board on the legality of work is on the agenda, so I'll concentrate on that. The previous meeting of the Supervisory Board was the shortest said Croatian shame. I'm just going to make one argument and one fact as an argument. For the same year 2013, they submitted 2 reports to the Croatian Parliament. Even the former president of the Parliament was forced to write, please submit a report in accordance with the law. They delivered one which the Supervisory Board accepted and one which the Supervisory Board did not accept. Only that fact as an argument is enough to say that it's the worst meeting of the Supervisory Board. Ignorance, intricacy and illegality are the symbols of this Supervisory Board, most members, not all. Instead of controlling illegality, the Supervisory Board has produced illegality. This Supervisory Board was not responsible for the situation and the report, it could have been more content and qualityd to see everything the Supervisory Board had done in the previous meeting. However, these members of the Supervisory Board and this Supervisory Board for me have been the best of all the previous Supervisory Boards in Croatia since the existence of Croatian Radio Television. And that's why it's there, and that's why they have facts. In 8 months 10 sessions, they refused to give consent to the Rules of Procedure on Salaries even though I still don't think on HRT wages corresponds to the workplace and the conditions and abilities, that still at least those who work least still have the highest wages. And I appeal for it to be done as soon as possible. And most of all, today's director of HRT and editor-in-chief have to break up the harmful contracts of previous administrations and administrations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7963	Thank you. The honourable representative of Stipe Petrina will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7964	Here's a thank you, Mr. Maric. I can go with you, and I don't have to agree. I agree if something bad was done that's a shame, but I'm going to have to say that you'll agree to pay for something that doesn't consume an even worse shame. You're saying this is the best Supervisory Board. Here's what I want to believe. I really wish the new Supervisory Board good luck. Whether he's the best or not, I'll see him very soon next week, next month. If any payment comes to pay the HRT to my citizens then I will not agree with you and then I will say that he is the worst Supervisory board to continue the robbery of citizens, one part of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Now you all know what's on it. We'll see how the Supervisory Board reacts to that. If the Supervisory Board adopts what you say is best and what I say cannot be paid for what is not consumed and what is not obtained, then I will raise my hand next time for that Supervisory Board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7965	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ladislav Ilčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7966	Mr. Petrina, you said not to call for legality because in the implementation... rot. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I can't agree with that at all. We, as a legislative body, would come where we would come from if we did not call for legality and you should be careful that when you are angry about not implementing a certain law, that you do not invite us as a legislative body not to call for legality because it is the destruction of our order. Secondly, I completely agree with you about this situation in Primosten, which makes sense to me. If the law says it means you don't pay where there's no signal, if there's no signal, you don't pay. Just a few more facts. So it's not true that the subscription is 1.3 billion kuna. So that's the total budget that consists of advertising. So you know that's still less. Then the goal of HRT is not just a program. Therefore, you should look at the Law on HRT clearly indicates everything HRT does and what it means to the Croatian State. And she, I, too, meet with people who say I don't watch HRT, so I won't pay the subscription. It's not like that. That man doesn't even go to the theater, and he pays for culture. His child may not be studying, but the state budget pays for high schools, or colleges. Therefore, we should view HRT as one general Croatian good. What you said later already exists in the HRT Act. So look, even the Croats outside Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina are mentioned. What you said already existed in the HRT Act. And let me just finish with that bill. So, to me, it's also a little bit funny, you know, when people go down the blinds when this guy comes to see if he has a HRT or a TV or a radio. And now how much we should pay for it, and I don't know about it, you have entrepreneurs who need to pay for every official car because it's supposed to work. It's illogical. The Slovenians, for example, pay a subscription through an electricity bill. So, I'm open to talking about how, and we're going to see how this HRT Act is going to develop now, but in any case, we're looking at HRT as a common good.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7967	Thank you. The honourable representative of Stipe Petrina will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7968	In part, I agree with you, Mr. Ilcic, but I disagree with you that this respected House is harmless in its own affairs, in the whole thing. Personally, I believe that the Croatian Parliament is responsible for everything that has been going on in Croatia for the last 25 years, and I believe that I will have the opportunity to speak clearly about it, specifically about the political corruption that has shaken the Croatian Parliament. Why? Because we're the only one, Mr. Ilcicho, chosen. We are a legislative body that if we want to be offered some other experiences of the countries that tell us maybe even appointed prime minister we can close here for 10 days, bring and change everything that is bad in the country of Croatia. It's up to us. And as for this second one, that TV subscription must be paid, I personally disagree. Today we are at the age of information and it is possible to decode or encode the program. So whoever wants to watch HRT watch HRT. I agree with you that let the TV subscription or the amount necessary for national television to be kept alive and more than that be paid through some other kind of tax. But if that means anything, read article 34. The law on HRT, does this mean that tomorrow the state will lack money for the carpentry industry, the furniture industry and that there will be a tax on the table? Because today there's a tax on the apparatus, sir. And that's bad at the whole thing. The rest of you and I agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7969	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Andrija Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7970	In one part, I agree with you on the signal that I do not repeat myself about the amount of the budget, etc. But I'm generally sad that even at this point those who pay the subscription and watch us listen to everything other than what's the agenda point. So that's not a good message. If we're talking about the highest House of the Republic of Croatia. Almost 800 and a few thousand are subscribers, maybe more. Therefore, I will repeat only what I said yesterday, if it is taken into account that the money paid by Croatian citizens is public money and it should be used exclusively by the purpose of the contract with the Government of the Republic of Croatia to define the content and quality of the programme, then we concluded yesterday, and I will repeat it today that there has been a lower realization of programme achievements. And I Decedededely said then and I'll repeat the HRT has severely violated the contractual obligation. Why? Because what Croatian citizens pay for does not give scope or the quality it should give. So that's what we absolutely agree on. But here, we have a chance to change some things. Yesterday I spoke of the then president of the Croatian Journalist Society who said the changes were good at the time. So I confirm and today they've been implemented and everything that's done is done exclusively and only in a better direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7971	Thank you. The honourable representative of Stipe Petrina will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7972	Here's what I'm saying. I'm giving up the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7973	Thank you. And the last replica is the respected representative of Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7974	An esteemed colleague about the signal is a really big problem. I just have to say that the most important source of this problem comes in most cases because of interference from the Italian side, in most cases, I'm not just talking specifically about the Primosten Municipality, I'm talking about Istria, Lošinj, Mljet and parts of Croatia. I can testify to you, and I can also show you the documents that there have been a number of bilateral talks as early as 2010, in 2011. I can say that here and the parliamentary delegation that went on the official trip to Rome opened the problem and insisted on solving the problem. According to recent information, there are some encouragements that this part of the problem will be resolved. I agree that it is the obligation of the Transmitter and the links on their part, but you know that this problem also occurs in parts of Istria, Primorje and this is actually an incorrect behaviour by Italian transmitters because it is turning the signal especially in the summer months etc. That's the problem that needs to be solved here. As far as you know, it's a matter of national policies and cultural policies to say that we want HRT to survive, you understand? If you go with the system of what you said encodings very quickly you will those segments of the program that are necessary, educational, the documentary will simply shut down because it will not be able to withstand a difficult competition. We must always keep that in mind, even when we say that we want to help citizens get either a cheaper public media service service or a better quality for that money. Here, that's how much I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7975	Thank you. Next, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST, the Honorable Representative Miro Bulj will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7976	You've denied me a line.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7977	You didn't answer for her.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7978	All right, all right. Here you go, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7979	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Chairman of the Supervisory Board, colleagues and colleagues. Here, as yesterday I will repeat that it is regrettable that the 2014 report was only in 2016 to be considered given to parliamentary representatives to decide on it. It is negligence, we must publicly state, the former governments who did not prepare this point in the former term when it was to be discussed, when it was the period. Secondly, I'm sorry right at the beginning of what certain parliamentary deputies didn't notice that it was about people who were doing law houses these past days, at least 10, 15 times I've repeated on the basis of obligations made by subscribers according to certain means according to HTV. Not just once, but more times. And I'm even more surprised what comes from the club, the representatives of the clubs that are in the coalition, which are Croatia growing, i.e. The former Kukuriku coalition, which speaks on behalf of the club because they simply had time, is also familiar with the Primosten case as counterpart Petrina said as well as the former HDZ government. These are facts, and I'm sorry that we're not in agreement about what we're looking at as obviously these executives as some kind of electoral body. If Miro Bulj says then in public he says why Miro Bulj showed it, of course, and I wish these parliamentary representatives were somewhat more regular and active in these constituencies representing these perpetrators because it would obviously be better if we were complex and unique in this assembly and because of the people, regardless of opposition or position. We're people's representatives here. One day it may be the other way around, but we're only here because of the people. It is regrettable that there is a lack of data on expenditures and revenues where HRT markets billions and 200 million kunas from our citizens. This is a report so it came before us as if we're deciding anything at all. And now, most of the newly elected MPs should forgive all of this and say it's all right. It was done most likely both during the right government and during the time now because... and the left government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, we don't know what the salaries to HTV employees are, the manager's contracts from HTV's director to the most ordinary fee, or I don't know which ones have every opportunity to give them money. So absolutely we Parliamentarians as people's representatives are not informed of anything. And I'm sorry what these former governments didn't deliver to us, and so did the current representatives, the representatives of the government. representatives of the Supervisory Board. Which is why I'm not going to get into it because I haven't even been a MOST club in this part before. So when we look at a number of contracts, we don't know what happened to ZAMP colleague Maric mentioned. How much money from ZAMP means from people like our citizens who pay ZAMP, how much HTV funds it gives ZAMP, where that money goes to, who it goes to. And I'll see you at ZAMP, rich, neatly rich. There was, of course, an impact on ZAMP and politics because the key people of the Croatian state were involved in ZAMP. I'm sorry for being least sure because we don't have the information the authors of these funds get. And that's what we're going to need to discuss here, and that one, too, that illogicality, so I can say also the robbery of the authors and the people who pay will have to stop as soon as possible. Of course, a lot of subjects have been left behind. Once again, I will mention what he mentioned about the previous Petrinas and I have talked about it 10 times in the last few days, and we should all talk about it together, and that is the problem of the performance, the problem of the debt that 200 kunas, 240 kunas take on both public notebooks and the law firm. And that's what we're telling this government, especially HRT, from the MOST Club, that they need to stop it immediately and take over HTV to determine that part. 3,000 employees will be admitted and they don't know for themselves because we don't have a report to stop it immediately. I'm sorry there's no representative of the government, she should have been here to listen to us because this is, uh, these are parliamentary deputies. And this is another message on behalf of the club of the Independent Lists. Finally, the club of representatives of MOST will not accept the report on the work and implementation of the financial operations of HRT for 2014 for those reasons. And that's how it's gonna be if there's no change and no future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7980	Thank you. We have a few replicas. She is the first to be respected representative of Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7981	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear Representative Bulj, it is similar to your debate yesterday when the HRT Programme Council was today when the Report of the National Committee of the HRT. Things are very clear, you are now the ruling coalition and you have enough votes to change the HRT Act. As far as the subscription is concerned, so that's where I support you, we open up a question in the House whether it's necessary to pay this amount of subscription, whether it should be paid at all, what with those people who are under wraps, I agree to get rid of it legally. However, the powers of the HRT Supervisory Board, today's debate and the powers of the HRT programme council do not have much to do with what we now want to talk about the subscription, it is another topic. However, what is very important and I repeat this to you, I believe that you have good intentions, HRT is not anyone's private TV camera that needs to run either for the HDZ coalition with partners or for the SDP or for any of us here, it is public television, the general good of all Croatian citizens and all political options. But here's the problem with something else. That supervisory board, which was removed in July 2015, illegally did its job. That's why he took off. And this supervisory board has done its job well, the current one, because it has replaced the incompetent director of HRT who has not well managed public goods, Mr. Radman, so that we should give support to this supervisory board as the Croatian Parliament, and whoever has already been removed this report should only be informed, and now let the topic become some sort of boxing bag here in the assembly for days, so as soon as the word HRT is mentioned, let's go now to HRT and not go to the bottom of the problem at all, what is really the agenda. The agenda is to accept a technical report or not to accept a supervisory board that no longer exists because it has been removed because of illegality so I suggest that we take this into account and that we commend this supervisory board that is working today for solving the problems at HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7982	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Miro Bulj will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7983	Thank you, dear fellow Salapic. I agree that it should not be HRT, mainly on the left or on the right, and that you should work on it and you as an experienced parliamentary representative during Sanader were I think Jadranka Kosor's parliamentary representative in the ruling coalition. I'd be glad you were speaking from that position then. But you didn't say those words at the time, but you clapped on all the moves to your great leaders. I can testify because I know what your party president was going through at the time now, which I highly respect and appreciate, and I know how you acted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7984	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mark Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7985	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Bulj, in your presentation, you only briefly touched the ZAMP affair and I would ask you, therefore, this ZAMP affair, so the Croatian contract with ZAMP was signed in 2013. The contract lasts three years. We were and are now a member of the EU. ZAMP is a monopoly in Croatia, so I have one question, which is why you think the contract has been signed for three years and why the HRT has not taken into account the other offers that were in the EU and what do you think when this contract is broken, when it expires, will HRT sign the contract with ZAMP again? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7986	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Miro Bulj will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7987	ZAMP's policy has had an impact from the former president Josipovic, who is involved in ZAMP, of course, that the policy has had an impact and that this is mainly to the damage because we don't know about ZAMP, not only about HRT, we don't know how much money goes to the authors and how much it goes to the founders of ZAMP. I have some information that they're now creating an empire, buying real estate and getting it from that you get and that's the question of all the questions. Is that a robbery? But legalized through political power, dragged through this Parliament and today, the least resources I have are the ones for which it was founded, these are the authors of musical works and other works that belong to the regulation and the law in those works. Of course, that should be checked, that in this House speaker should talk about it, because politics has had too much influence and most of all in favour of those who have implemented that policy and are planning that policy in this case on the left, but so it was probably both on the right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7988	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7989	Dear fellow Bull! You spoke here on behalf of those who pay the fee and who have the right to expect public television to be their public service. I fully agree with you here yesterday we had a chance to see how this TV after these shifts performs that function. The Croatian representative, actually the candidate for the UN secretary-general, Mrs Vesna Pusic, was represented yesterday. This was transmitted in the direct transmission of Slovenian television and other private television. Public television, ours, which you and I and all citizens are paying a fee at the time, was transmitted by these Leopold Mandic, on the second programme by a religious programme. Of the four channels, this public television we pay the fee has not been found appropriate that on no transmission it represents candidates from Croatia for such an important function. Prime Minister Oreskovic said a day earlier, Croatia's government supports Mrs Vesna Pusic in the candidacy, but it is Mr Karamarko that he does not want to pay the fee and that he is looking at what he does not like. And here's the new HRT administration listening to Karamark. She won't be harassing him with some transmissions of important events that he doesn't care about. I can't conclude anything else but that with the new administration at HRT on HRT, a long dark night came down.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7990	Thank you very much. The Honorable Representative Miro Bulj will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7991	Really, Mr. Stazic, why do you have anxiety? The planet for the last four months, you've been nice to me, I didn't know you in general, but you really think that I, like you in the previous term, will call on HRT that who will be on TV, who will be the guest and that I will jump out of pate like you and Mrs Vesna Pusic, and about previous governments of course those who were in power. I don't want it, I don't want it, and I don't want it, and I don't want it, and I don't want it. Obviously from that position now that you haven't spoken in power for the past four years, when you've been jumping and literally out of pâté, you haven't been so loud and clear that why this on HRT, which is why this on HRT. Well, you know, this House has been interrupted to present your party's president to a press conference that absolutely doesn't have to be a priority over this Parliament. So much for that. That's what the predecessors did, I don't want to think about it as much as you do, but I'm gonna fight it so it doesn't. And as for Vesna Pusic, I didn't suggest it, nor would I suggest it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7992	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7993	President-in-Office of the Parliament, we heard today about the malfeasances possible in HRT that weigh tens of millions of kunas. One other question. If he has a legal department of HRT why he hires other lawyers to collect a debt subscription worth tens of millions of kunas. Is that another malfeasance, but these are not key questions for today. This is a key question for today. How can you expect him to draw up an ethical code of persons from the former system who were in UDBA,... SCOY, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What do you expect? As it is possible for a man to change who is responsible, in the House he was then that his proposal, which may be tied up, I might say, was bound to posthumous aid, that the dead were also robbed, that he was changing at his premeditation to change this inspection, etc. These are key questions, ethical questions. And why we bring down our smoke curtains when we see only from this HRT that the only system that works in Croatia in this country is corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7994	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Miro Bulj will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7995	I would agree with my colleague, Glasnovic, in this section, that the problem is the institution. It is always the problem of institutions, mainly institutions that are selective DORH, USKOK and other institutions that are selectively and politically extracting certain, means cases and in order to preserve their positions within these institutions from state lawyers, both lower and lower, and USKOK and more. It is not good whether there is one position or another in power to do so selectively, to protect these citizens, to protect the institutions should work according to the rules of the profession. And that is the basic problem to work on and build on, and all those who have not worked in those institutions must come before us from the DORH parliamentary representatives. So I personally filed the case of four criminal charges for the missing weapons of the 1990s in the Cetina province for defense. I didn't get an answer from the institutions today, from the DORH, myself. Well, this is the way I call them at least to send an answer that they've received that memo. So we have the selectivity of institutions that are obliged to deal with law and crime in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7996	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7997	Comrade Bulj, you said in your presentation there was no data, now you should forgive everything. You have nothing to forgive the current Supervisory Board. The current Supervisory Board was appointed in 2015 in July. They submit a technical report to those who have been illegally working and have been replaced because of their illegal work. They're the subject of the State's Attorney's Office. Therefore, this report, submitted today's current meeting of the Supervisory Board, is not responsible for their work. It will not correspond until a year for its work in 2015. Until then, this current review of the Supervisory Board should not be touched. And I repeat the government's anxiety in the ranks of your HDZ coalition partner, they want to get their hands on the board as soon as possible, prepare to replace this Supervisory Board as soon as possible to fill it with their own people. Do not allow MOST to be a tool for the realization of any such plans. That's where I'm afraid the backdrop is. It's being prepared, we're going to hit on the Supervisory Board, refuse them a report that they're not responsible for, but they've technically done it to replace them in a few months or when the 2015 report comes. Give people a chance to do their job. I'm up to my colleague Maric. This is the best Supervisory Board. On 29 February 2016, they launched an initiative for the shift of Radman. I thought impulses were coming from HDZ. But I was convinced that it wasn't the HDZ's guidance in this current meeting of the Radman Management Board, but it was already the sequence of events and their conscious and responsible work over the past six months, or 8 months until it happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7998	Thank you. We're moving on to, to forgive, we can't function like that to everyone. You haven't answered. I'm begging you in the future. Looks like it's become one habit of laziness. That's why we have tiles to answer for when we need to replicate, but also when we want to respond to a replica. The answer to the replica is not the same as the replica. Okay. Comrade Bull, here you go. I'll allow it this time, but I have to say I won't tolerate it anymore because it's gone to one little anarchy. Now everyone thinks they can do it. No, no. That's none of your business. It's none of your business. [[Oh, no, I'm up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u7999	Here I am going to give up even though I raised my hand, but I'm sorry. But okay. If I'm wrong about this Rules of Procedure, I'm giving up my answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u8000	We move on to individual debates and the first is the distinguished representative of Andrija Mikulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u8001	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, so I'll start by saying thank God we finally got the right Croatian broadcasting which obviously does not clearly convey to some here what is the interest of hundreds of thousands of people and not to put into the same level of persons who claimed that the Republic of Croatia has committed aggression against Bosnia and Herzegovina with the saints. So I think in that part we've made it clear why it was part of the transfer. But when I talk about this report, I would like first of all to point out that this report is given in a certain form and we should be told about the work of a certain body based on certain legal obligations or obligations prescribed by law. However, this report is drawn up in a way that gives a list of meetings, minutes, conclusions. Therefore, we can conclude that it is not possible to establish whether the Supervisory Board in 2014 has fulfilled or not by law given its obligation. But compared to the specific data in the report, I'd turn to two segments, two things. The first is to reduce its own production and the second legal obligation to introduce separate internal accounting. Some of them were crying these days, and I was saying that I would cry because there was no reduction with the first moves, but to strengthen their own production, to transparency of work. So if we weep, we weep with happiness for what is well done. As regards this first Supervisory Board, it noted that it expressed concern in the event of a continued negative trend in reducing the production of its own programme, which could ultimately reduce ratings and obedience. So I'll repeat, remember 2012 ratings and 2014 when Kukuriku coalition put in V.d. Mr. Novokmet, you see how many ratings have fallen on HTV, we said yesterday, the first program from 23 to 10 or 11%. Not to mention the consequences that caused it. In view of the fact that the Supervisory Board, on the proposal of the Director-General of the HRT, adopts a work programme in accordance with the previous opinion of the Programme Council, it is not clear which measures have been taken in relation to the poor situation in relation to its own production. So we're talking about 2014. As regards the obligation to conduct separate internal accounting, the Supervisory Board therefore proposed to the Director-General on 28 September 2014 to act in accordance with the recommendations of the internal audit of the HRT on the legal obligation to conduct separate internal accounting. And we know that then and later he didn't do anything about it. In the light of the above, the supervisory board has, among other things, the task of monitoring the implementation of the provisions of the law relating to the legal spending of the tax and other revenue resources is evident, since there were no concrete moves based on what they were looking for, so that it failed to fulfil its legitimately prescribed task. I'm talking about 2014. But let's remember some decisions at the time about ZAMP. If we're going to remember two and more years ago, I talked about it when I spoke about the then president of the Republic of Croatia and directly through the media ordered his influence through ZAMP. So, then, the Supervisory Board, if I recall correctly, has taken decision 3:2 on the subject of ZAMP. Why am I saying that? Because this Supervisory Board has made a decision to say has chosen the position then in this House, the parliamentary majority, made a unanimous 5-0 decision and made a proposal to resolve the then head of HRT. Well, to those who don't get it, it's a step in relation to what was previously related to the Supervisory Board. Therefore, the HRT Supervisory Board was elected in 2015 and acted by law and, due to the lack of separate accounting, initiated the resolution of the head director of the HRT at the time, which resulted in the new composition of the Supervisory Board achieving a qualitative difference and a qualitative shift in relation to what it was. In view of all the above, I believe that this report cannot be positively assessed and of course it should not be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u8002	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u8003	You mentioned my colleague Mikulić in the introduction of complaints that are being transmitted on HTV, which is not. Well, here's what we've heard. We've heard one objection not to pass on politicians, but to... Live transmission of the body of St. [[You don't understand.]] Leopold Mandic. When one politician is declared a saint of Croatia, then I will not complain that he is not removed from all the HRT programmes, but that he should be transferred as much as he wants. As far as the ZAMP contract is concerned, you mentioned it, this is an example of the harmfulness of the contract, an example. How private interests are protected and how the general interest is damaged. The consent to such a harmful contract was given by the previous meeting of the Supervisory Board. And there should be a clear difference, with most members, not unanimously. There were members in the previous meeting who were conscientiously, honestly, and professionally doing their job, opposed many of the board’s decisions and even filed criminal charges. That's a great honor! But this Supervisory Board makes unanimous key decisions and does not accept the report of this Supervisory Board means the ignorance of matter, the punishment of those who are not responsible and not the punishment of those who are responsible. This report cannot be associated with responsibility, as this report does not relate to the work of this Supervisory Board but to the work of the previous Supervisory Board. You also mentioned Croats outside the Croatian homeland. They were called to help defend the Republic of Croatia, they were called to invest in their savings in Croatian banks when they formed, lost money in one case and another. And what are they doing today? When they want to return to Croatia with their pensions and spend them here we import taxes on pensions not to come here and at the same time they cannot watch the Croatian programme, the HRT programme on the first programme, have to buy separately. It's finally time for them to be able to satellite-watch the free HRT program. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u8004	Thanks will be answered by the distinguished representative Andrija Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u8005	Dear Representative Maric, you're absolutely right when you speak that way, so you should make a difference between this and that supervisory board. And this is the 2014 report. I absolutely agree with you when you say there are honorable individuals who have always done their job fairly and correctly. What's confirmed by it, I'll repeat, at the vote of that Board of Supervisors 3:2 that harmful contract is the disaster that could have been the biggest one we're talking about at ZAMP. And it needs to be made public and unequivocally and openly. So what we said yesterday in the debates, and I will repeat, it is embarrassing that at that time and during the time of the former director, representations in Bosnia and Herzegovina are lifted. So who will take care of the Croats of Bosnia and Herzegovina if not the country of origin. Who are these people who have given themselves the right to make such decisions? Yesterday, it seems to me that he and his colleague spoke about the relationship between individual peoples and how many representatives he has in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So are we going to make decisions in Croatia that these representations are abolished and that no one cares about these people but when Croatia needs help then no one is going to call on the Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina to come and help as they did when it was most needed for the Croatian state. Therefore, we have rights and obligations and I am pleased that you consume both rights and obligations and not just one or the other.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u8006	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ladislav Ilčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u8007	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Mikulić, I will relate to your mention... Leopold Mandic and what Mr. Stazic said, just to say that the Index.hr published yesterday an article called the dead of a living Catholic necrophyl orgy are the craziest show on HRT. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He says in that article the amount of indulgence we have toward the Catholic Church is amazing. When the body leaves the church, it also ends in the patient. But these patients will put you in a glass box and parade you around. The full square of people who sing and broadcast the glory of the arrival of the traveling corpse of the dwarf and one-armed saint, said Hrvoje Marjanovic, the author of the mentioned text. I'm saying this because I'm taking the opportunity to contact the Electronic Media Agency and the occupier's staff to actually stand in the protection of the believers. I mean, I don't intend to explain to theologically what the saints mean to the believers, but they mean something to us. However, calling all the believers sick and calling this necrophilic orgies is indeed below the level of a democratic society. And I really mean, look up at the cathedral yesterday, it was full of cathedrals, it was in front of the entire square full. It was in these two days a row across the entire Ban of Josip Jelačić to Radic's street people who wanted to come here. Well, I guess we live in a democratic plural society in which religious freedoms are permitted, in which believers should not be offended by these words. So really worrying and really here I am appealing both to the attorney general and to the electronic media agency to respond to these really terrible attacks.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u8008	Thanks will be answered by the distinguished representative Andrija Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u8009	My dear colleague, I absolutely agree with you, and I don't think of anyone in this House who doesn't understand the difference between saints and faith explaining what it is. All they have left is that they laugh ironically and try to explain something dramatic. So yesterday's transmission was at least for 100 thousand citizens who came to see the saint. But there's something else, and I'm really looking forward to it because I read that also on Sunday at 11pm, thank God HRT will share the same mass from the Church of St. Leopold Mandic in Zagreb's Dubrava.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u8010	Thank you very much. I'd ask you not to throw it out of the bench. Can we stop throwing out the bench? ... Then you can go outside and talk to me if you want to talk loudly. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'd like to ask you to behave yourself. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now the next individual debate would be that respected representative of Angel Strick's.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u8011	President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished MPs and MPs. We had the chance to hear that the Board's report was incomplete, incomplete, and I agree with that. This is also the letter from the Supervisory Board addressed to the Croatian Parliament from 1 September 2015, which states that four members of the Five Supervisory Board of the HRT were appointed by decision of the Croatian Parliament on 3 July 2015 and that these members did not participate in the activities of the Supervisory Board, and that the annual report in question does not contain that otherwise it is normally worth the courts and assessments which would refer to the results of work and the implementation of the supervision of the legality of the work and financial operations of the HRT for 2014 but contains a review of the tax-listed, held meetings of the Croatian Supervisory Board in 2014. Obviously, one such tax meeting as reported was held on 16 January 2014 when a decision was taken to abolish 11 regional and foreign correspondence offices of the HRT. That's when the next conclusion was made. It takes note of the oral information of the head director of HRT at a meeting of the Supervisory Board, which, among other things, stated that the restructuring of correspondence will result in savings in staff costs as well as other costs. So, the CEO gives the Supervisory Board an oral report without analysis, without a savings indicator, which is why 11 correspondence is lifted. This was addressed by 36 institutions and individuals, including the Varazdin County County County County, which is unfortunately not listed. The County Assembly of Varazdin County has made a recommendation asking the HRT to have the headquarters of the regional study of the Croatian North-West building in Varteksovo, Varazdin, which is designed for this purpose, built up to a high pitch buch phase. Namely, what's this about? HRT and Varazdin are on their way to build a new building. I've got a few photos here. That building was built up to the high bach bauh phase. After it had already been built means for it there were all the permits, paid all the fees, obtained consent, HRT giving up the completion of this building and temporarily for three years moving into another space for which he spent between 3 and 5 million kuna to put it into office. For five million kunas, they could have completed this building by the high stage of time. I'm interested in the position of the Supervisory Board on this matter. Also, the HDZ Councilors' Club in the County Assembly has repeatedly sought some information. Since the building is a state for which neither the HRT amount nor the Tax Day gave us an answer today because it is a tax secret. So whether taxpayers' funds, especially when it comes to HRT, can be official or tax secrets. Tax bonds, or in this case subscribers in Varazdin County, and there are 47 112 per month in the deposit account 3 million 768 thousand kuna or 45 216 annually, and then these funds are used in a way to start the building, build, give it up and move it to another location. Therefore, I would ask if it is possible to get an answer from the supervisory board that was their position on the abolition of these correspondence, especially the case in Varazdin.?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u8012	Thank you very much. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Dary Hrebac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u8013	Dear President of the Parliament, dear colleague Strick. I agree with you, I'd just like to fill out a little bit about shutting down correspondence. What you said if it's true, it's scandalous. That one business decision is made without any analysis of the consequences it will have. I'm talking about one of the studies that was shut down in the previous term. Of course, it's a study of Bjelovar, which had 25 employees, only 3 left. What kind of rationalisation is it when all these people today have to travel to Zagreb every day, for them is paid travel expenses, there are certain other costs that cause someone to make up for it. According to some rules that govern and essentially order to kill HTV to behave according to the Media Law but also to cover all events as a public media service, they must cover events in the area of Bjelovar-Bilogor County. Namely, we are a county which is also an important component of the national minority, especially the Czech national minority, HTV as a service must also cover that part of the space. And what's going on? What happens now is that teams from Zagreb must come to Bjelovar, travel expenses are issued for them, diaries are issued, what is this rationalisation? So, I'd like the same as you said, I'd like to find out what the real motive was, whether there was a certain bone benefit analysis and whether some rationalization was really done because here we can finally see what I'm extremely commending that the current acting director is returning the study right now and here I am personally as a representative pleased to return the HTV studio to Bjelovar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u8014	Thank you. The Honorable Agent Angelko Striker will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u8015	Well, I agree with you that there's no savings but extra expenses because the crews are still traveling for a long time now. Among other things, HRT had its own space in Varazdin. That space was sold, bought a new one, projected a project, so this particular building was for that purpose, they were installed up there, and the antennae ended up giving up. In this case, there's no savings but expenses. The question arises as to what the state, or government of the Republic of Croatia, is in this case with this starting facility, in which it can be redeployed because it is now a state facility. So in this case it's totally missed and HRT's leadership is responsible and the supervisory board is responsible for it that hasn't responded to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u8016	Thank you. The next individual debate is that of the distinguished representative Josip Krizanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u8017	Dear Mr. President, President of the Supervisory Board, colleagues and colleagues. Encouraged by previous discussions on the integrity and haughtiness of the director of HRT it is certain that there is a responsibility of the new Supervisory Board, and I will also give you a concrete case. And you as the new Supervisory Board should have discussed the request of the Association of Croatian Road Carriers for the correction of the method of calculating the payment of HRT subscription. The fact is that the laws NN 137/10 and 76/12 determine the disproportionate payment of HRT charges per receiver. It's a parafiscal load that chokes and this little economy that's left. Such burdens on an economy such as this, this subscription or ZAMP in our village in Varazdin are called "the tax for fools". And is it logical that each carrier at home pays 80 kuna for two TV receivers and 3 radios, and that in the economy for each official vehicle on 4 wheels whatever it seems to be, a subscription is paid to HRT 80 kuna. Furthermore, no one in this country has listened to HRT, at least so far. We hope that this ratings will now increase in this election of new directors. However, it is important here to point out that most carriers spend 70% of their time abroad and that the Croatian radio is not heard there. And continue to imagine that Germany has a law under which carriers pay quarterlyly 8 euros. This means that the wealthy Germans pay 20 kuna a month and Croatian carriers 80. The Supervisory Board of Article 35(1) of the Act provides for the possibility of correcting the ceiling of the monthly subscription, an example of the hosts. This kind of mastodon that treated billions and 300 million kunas as a drunken billionaire had no need or empathy towards private entrepreneurship that was on its knees, and had neither the same nor the answer to numerous questions from the field about correction or the reduction of the subscription to those who fed them. I'm asking you, how long are we going to be suffocating the economy and the real sector? I ask Mr. Chairman of the Supervisory Board to receive these men, consider their demands, which are very reasonable and realistic. Because no one can tell me that it's normal for a single subscription to solve five receivers, and in performing its crafts, a craftsman has to pay for each vehicle separately. I ask you to further consider the possibility of adjusting the price of the subscription for legal persons and craftsmen, that HRT is at least a little solidarity with the economy. And in the end, we will insist that this fee in the economy be abolished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u8018	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the distinguished representative of Tušak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u8019	So I would actually only replicate this introductory part of my colleague Križanić's discussion, because, apparently, during yesterday's day where the work of the Programme Council has been discussed and during today, which applies primarily to the work, business of HRT and the work of the Supervisory Board, in some way exposes the essence of the poor functioning of HRT as one public service that would have to function really promote all those values that we as a country and as a people have no matter where someone was and what values it represents. And that these are really valuable to us as people and to us as Homeland, so to contribute to this disclosure, the work of Croatian radiotelevision with these discussions, which primarily referred to the abolition of local doping, to the abolition of local information and the possibility of local terrain being able to at all be able to put its information in some national contexts. I will mention how this was treated by Croatian Radio Television to one of the largest cultural events in the territory of the Republic of Croatia with 50 years of history, which is the week of the Cacaua culture and the Krapina Festival. In parallel with this same Croatian radiotelevision, its administration made it possible to buy foreign content by spending millions and millions of kunas of state public money on the side of production towards the production of the largest event in the area of the northwestern Croatian cultural event concerned that people working in that institution did not consider themselves to be a part of the story at all, but we were in a position to pay local money to employees of Croatian radiotelevision, their producers, their ensembles, their musicians to contribute to the promotion of what should first be promoted by Croatian radiotelevision, and this is a traditional culture of Croatian people regardless of which region it was from. Unfortunately, and this is one way or another symbol or picture of the work of the Croatian Radio Television administration and how it and how it treated our territory and our people in full. In that sense, I thank and confirm that your discussion in the beginning was that it was the administration that should be condemned in every segment of her work, and then the Supervisory Board and I end up who just supported it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u8020	Thank you very much. Since a lot of MPs have withdrawn their applications, we no longer have individual applications and will now take the floor to the esteemed chairman of the HRT Supervisory Board, Mr. Shenol Selimovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u8021	Thank you, Mr. President, distinguished MPs and MPs. First of all, I thank you all for your discussions and your criticisms, your remarks. However, I would like to point out on this occasion one more fact that the document that is in front of you today, which is required under the HRT Act, is to be delivered once a year by the report on annual work and the implementation of the supervision of the legality of work and financial operations. So, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, A report on how one has worked and how he has exercised supervision can only be submitted by the logic of common sense to one who has actually exercised this supervision. He was conducted by an ex-consumption board. I am not a politician, of course, so I will not participate in this kind of discourse, but I will only want to make a sound and logical conclusion that we could not deliver to the Assembly any other kind of document or evidence of the surveillance that was carried out, conducted in 2014. So this is the case now. There'll probably be these cases still. It is possible that in 2016 I will not be chairman of the Supervisory Board for the reasons laid down in the law and someone will have to make a report for 2015. So here I am appealing and using this situation to be kind of instructive to all of us, and in fact, this kind of situation may be predicted by tomorrow or by law, or that simply some body of the Assembly or the Assembly Committee of Information may in such situations give some kind of guidance or opinion to the Supervisory Board of any form, form and content such a report would have to be when it is drawn up by a supervisory board that did not actually exercise supervision for the previous time period. It's something that I think would be quite good and positive and that perhaps the misunderstandings and this advance condemnation of failure in such reports could be avoided. Because in this situation however we formulated this report, of course, that there could always be some kind of remark, some kind of mistake or some kind of dissatisfaction, some kind of indiscretion, etc. So that's what from my experience working on the supervisory board here's a warm recommendation for some future period. And as for your decision, of course, we are the HRT Supervisory Board, appointed by this House, we are responsible for your work and of course we will respect every decision that you make regarding our report that we have made. But here I appeal once again to the fact that this really was our report, in our opinion, that could only have been so in one technical form delivered in the best faith, in the best intention of fulfilling a legal obligation that had not been fulfilled before us because the previous Supervisory Board had therefore failed to fulfil that obligation and failed to submit a report for the period during which it carried out the supervision of work and financial operations. Thank you again very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u8022	Thank you very much. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u8023	Thank you very much. Mr. Selimovic, you are now, in fact, telling the truth, but are you aware of what tragic truth you have told about this High House? So the ruling majority was aware that the supervisory board was not working and did not want to name it. So the ruling majority deliberately let HRT sail without any control as it sailed. And now we hear a bunch of lunches like this and like that. Because if the Parliament appoints a supervisory board, if that supervisory board doesn't work, then whoever appointed it is obliged to appoint the next. It's just facts. We're going to argue here about various companies, this is a public service. Why someone didn't want to do it is a question for whoever didn't want to do it. Because tomorrow, if this Supervisory Board does not function, the ruling majority is responsible to appoint the next Supervisory Board. There's no one else who's responsible for it. The ruling majority proposes it, the ruling majority elects it and the ruling majority bear responsibility. Therefore, the ruling majority is responsible for everything that has happened on HRT because it has not appointed a body to exercise supervision. Based on the law we've passed here. And that is the greatest truth of our debate yesterday and today. We can fight politically as much as we want, but I repeat, if something like this happens to us, if we don't, then we're responsible, and no one can free us from that responsibility. Just as colleagues can now not seek any justification for what happened with the Supervisory Board in 2014-2015. It's just a fact. And that's what he says best about us, and then we wonder why the citizens judge us as they judge us. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-15-0.u8024	I beg you not to communicate by yelling out of each other's benches. I know it's a habit for you, but I'm asking you to give up that habit. I'd like to conclude this debate with that right now. We will, of course, vote on this point when the conditions are met. We will continue to work on Wednesday 20th April at 9.30 p.m. and as it goes in order the first item will be the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Law on... My colleagues, Ingrid Antičević, please stop talking all the time! [[The noise in the hall, you don't understand.]] So let others, at least the president, finally say something here, you don't have to listen to you all the time. Therefore, there will be a final draft law amending and supplementing the Noise Protection Act, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 24. Thank you very much. Have a nice weekend. Session interrupted at 12.18 hours. The following is the Annual report on the work and implementation of the supervision of the legality of work and financial operations of HRT for 2014. The report shall be submitted to the HRT Supervisory Board. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the National Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: The Annual report on the work and implementation of the supervision of the legality of the work and financial operations of the HRT for 2014 is not accepted. Please vote. The vote is over. 68 votes for, 3 abstentions, 30 against. I find that most of the votes have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary parent committee.
