ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u7036	Thank you, Mr. President. Here on behalf of the club I'd like to request a break. I would like to request a break in respect of non-compliance with the state pedagogical standard and the alarming situation regarding kindergartens in the City of Zagreb. [[Intruder Reiner: Friends and colleagues let's listen a little to colleague Sladoliev.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u7037	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Koncevski, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u7038	.../Last on./... The Croatian Labour Representatives' Club is looking for a break because of President Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic's statement that the former SOA director was a private intelligence officer, Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u7039	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative Maras has raised his hand but won't look at me now.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u7040	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the club related to intrapolitical relations in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u7041	Thank you very much. The Honorable Representative of the Spika.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u7042	Same subject as the colleagues from MOST. On behalf of the HSLS-Rusak-BUZ Club, Stanka requested the same as a colleague from MOST, so a pedagogical standard in pre-school education and education.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u7043	Thank you very much. Do we have any other demands? We don't. So, I'll see you again. It's 9.40 in 9.50 hours. I'll see you again. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] I ask you to sit down and here I would like to ask the first honourable representative, Mark Sladolev, to speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u7045	Thank you, Mr. President. Respected MPs and MPs, yesterday kindergarten educators showed that they could no longer be ignored and that the problems they face have reached their peak. What's interesting is that they're not asking for more pay for themselves, but better working conditions for those who have dedicated their work, which are children. The protest is organized under the motto "Give Five for DPS" and it is a state pedagogical standard that the City of Zagreb and other cities are persistently ignoring. These are their five requirements: 1.It is urgent to reduce the number of children per group, 2nd advance planning of accommodation facilities, follow the demographic picture and plan accordingly to increase them, 3rd is more stimulation for additional and special programs led by breeders, 4th is more separation of financial resources for toys and doactic means because it is now the fact that it is now funded by breeders and parents themselves and 5th with cities to become a social partner. In Zagreb, the City of Zagreb currently has 10,000 children more in kindergartens than the state standard prescribed by law. According to this standard, 8 children can be enrolled for 13 to 17 months in a manger group, and the current situation is that they are listed in groups 19 to 21 of children. The older the children, the bigger the number. So in a group where five-year-olds can be a maximum of 20 children and the current situation is that there are 30 in the group. It's all happening in a city that finances football clubs that are like a citizen's association and that if the charges are proven by some these clubs have laundered money in offshore companies, in a city that buys cars from millions of kunas, in a city that works fountains and doesn't spin. Don't get me wrong, I think fountains are nice, but the question is priority. It's like having a 40-square apartment and a family of five kids, and you have money, you instead of investing in a bigger apartment, you buy an expensive car to show your neighbor your haughtiness or supremacy. These are irrational decisions that harm our demographic policy because if it continues like this, there will be no one to admire these fountains, and the club I mentioned has no audience anymore, but that's for another topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u7046	Thank you very much. Do you agree regardless of the order since the topics are connected that perhaps now fellow Spika speaks and then colleagues Koncevski and Maras? I think that makes sense, if not, no. You got it. Here's my colleague Spika on behalf of HSLS, BUZ, the esteemed representative of Milivo Spika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u7047	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I must say that I am fraternised by the actions of individuals in the Croatian Parliament when they want to talk, and we are the national parliament here on some subject and then we are reduced to some local level and we are talking about some local problem. And then in order to denucate someone, we start to mention surpluses, cars, fountains and something like that. And now I'm going to tell you something that you don't know because you've probably overlooked the fact that there is a representative here in the City of Zagreb Assembly. So do you know that this pedagogue standard that's what you said there are extra people in the group. That's right. And the fact is, there is but there is never more than 60-70% capacity in that group. So, considering how realistic people are in any of these age groups, we see that it's about to fall into that pedagogical standard with one important fact. In Zagreb there are still thousands of places available in kindergartens and you tell me how many more towns in the Republic of Croatia can boast of something like that. The second thing, every kindergarten makes an annual and financial plan. Do you know the fact that kindergarten aunts have more crying than 30-40% of primary school teachers? Do you know that? You don't know that. Do you know that every year for preschool education, the city of Zagreb has over 8020 million kunas, which is slightly more than 13% of the total budget. Come on, please. Please be nice. You can't go out here and talk about pedagogical standards by calling on a local self-government unit just for the reason that you can talk to someone. [[I'm asking you to listen to my fellow Spica. Please.]] But I will agree in one, that we should work to improve pedagogical standards in each part of the Republic. But do not compare the city of Zagreb with any unit of local self-government because you will encounter the wall, because you should have the fact that unemployment is half as low in the city of Zagreb as in the rest of Croatia. That wages are 30% on average more than in other parts of Croatia, that the social standard of all groups is significantly higher than 90% of local self-government units in Croatia. So it's a bad comparison of colleagues, a bad comparison, especially since this isn't the subject of Zagreb, it's not the subject of Zagreb's pedagogical standard, and there's no one here who would officially say something on behalf of the city, so I gave myself the right to deny you and to warn you to watch what you're saying because when you get here, then you need to have the facts so that you don't have any different answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u7048	My colleagues, I beg you, colleagues and colleagues, let's let go and listen to this one that has a distinguished representative of Spika to say, whatever anyone thinks about it. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u7049	My dear colleagues! I've often disagreed with some MPs, but it doesn't give me the right to yell at them, to yell, to get in the word, to wave, to gesture. I can agree or disagree. But if we're all so many Democrats, then let's show it in a way that we let the speaker finish and say what he has, no matter how much he disagrees, because you'll get the chance to come and say it, but the warning stands once more. I warn this time and fellow MPs that I have less and less patience and that I will get out more and more often and even in replicas when it comes out with some data that simply don't stand. So this is briefly on this exposure around the pedagogical standard and what is happening in Zagreb. It would be good if all units of local self-government arrived in Zagreb, not because there is a phenomenal situation in Zagreb, but also in Zagreb there is still much work to do because nowhere and it is never so good that it can't be even better. But taking that example to deunciate someone or something in the most important case is not correct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u7050	Thank you very much. My colleague Bulj seems to have raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u7051	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Infringement of Rules of Procedure Article 238, so this was a replica, it wasn't about the subject which was the subject of the debate, this was a pre-election set of a political assessment that in this case, a fellow Spika did not speak, a little shorter text had been placed on him than the author might have written to him. This was about pedagogical standards and here is the fact that in Zagreb, even in other local environments, our children who are our future and our aunts who are other parents have not met the standards and I believe that you, Mr. President, should have warned that this is not a replica, but it is about the subject that Mr. Spika has announced. And this was only a violation of the Rules of Procedure and also your mistake, Mr. President. This was not a pre-election event but a talk about a serious subject to be seriously discussed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u7052	I estimate it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Of course, my colleague Spika was partly talking about the pedagogical standard, partly about everything else, but it also does all the other representatives very often. Therefore, if we were to act on this, then I fear we would have a great deal of silence in this House. But now I would like to give a word to the distinguished representative Tomislav Končevski who will now speak on behalf of the Croatian Labourists.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u7053	Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues. Here you have seen most of your statement by the president that Mr. Lozancic was Mr. Zoran Milanovic's private intelligence officer, did not list the prime minister, but I believe that Mr. Milanovic was Croatian Prime Minister at the time. The Croatian Labour Club will request the establishment of an investigative committee in the Croatian Parliament to finally resolve these dilemmas of who is listening to them. I can't believe the president of the state on public television can make a statement like that. The whole world is watching us. We make our own way out of here. I think a private personal intelligence officer can be the director of SOA, that's very funny, someone had to support it, someone has to control it. Look, if we don't have control instruments controlling the SOA director, then that's very sad. Then I don't know what Parliament's doing, what the National Security Committee is doing. I think it's very, very unserious. And if we depend on only one man and we deal with the intelligence community and we don't deal with the economy, we don't deal with the topics that matter to this people. Because the people of our people are hungry, and we're still considering and the president is talking about who's supposed to be some kind of roof institution of this country talking about the director of SOA that way. That's embarrassing. So we're going to ask for the establishment of an investigative committee, we're going to ask all of you who want to sign it, we need 10% of signatures to launch this investigative committee, and we're going to find out who's been listening to who he's been listening to and who he's been playing with and who he's bothering and why he's talking to in this country about intelligence communities. I think that even when some committees in the House were shared, the most interested were those for the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, and some social issues were not very interested. That doesn't look very good to me. I think the people are watching us and the people are going to punish us for sure. We need to start dealing with topics that are important to the people, not topics that are important to some of our own chairs and our own positions. 'Cause look, if we're gonna keep dealing with Ustashas and partisans all the time, if we're gonna do some secret services, and we're not gonna do the work we're paid to do, we're not gonna get anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u7054	Thank you very much. Now, fortunately, no one has raised any damage to the Rules of Procedure, because it wasn't the subject of Ustashas or the Partisans. But of course that deal is just what I said freedom of speech must be guaranteed to everyone whatever we agree or disagree with what the speaker says. Here and now, on behalf of the SDP club, the word will be taken by the distinguished representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u7055	Thank you very much. Everyone should be allowed to talk, and I'd be happy to give some of my two and a half minutes to keep talking, because that's good. Oh, no? The more they say it, the better for others. Oh, no? We reported on behalf of the SDP club because unfortunately the country is paralyzed, conflicts in the coalition make it impossible for institutions to work normally. It's all right. Two, three months more things have been going since last government, but at this point everything is standing and the citizens are rightly concerned that our country will move on. And most of all, I said to the citizens, and among them young people who care about education and who are the future of our country. At the moment 5,000 Croatian students and students are waiting for their scholarships due to the failure of this government. Over a month and a half of scholarships have not been paid, and not only is that their problem, because that's the problem with their families. People study, people have expenses every month, and they don't have for their most normal educational process and for their survival at their colleges. It's been a month and a half since the budget was adopted. That problem hasn't been solved. I call on the Minister of Science, I call on the Government of the Republic of Croatia and Prime Minister Oreshkovic to solve this problem, because it is really not worthy that our Government does not take care of those who are the future of our country. What also amazes us here in the context of these coalition conflicts is that the prime minister is seeking support from foreign countries as well. You see in the paper today, the prime minister says that the new SOA director has the support of Canada and America. So, he's asking for the support of foreign countries from his own I'd say until today's supporters at the HDZ Representatives' Club who are now trying to put themselves through the media as someone who is above the prime minister and above the institutions of this country. We support you, we replace you. The situation is disastrous, ladies and gentlemen, and from here we call you once again to introduce order and work into state institutions. This is no longer durable! Citizens are asking you to move or move. As far as the city of Zagreb is concerned, I would also like to order certain things here. I am surprised that MOST colleagues are encouraging this topic since their coalition partner Club 365 Milan Bandic is in power in the city of Zagreb and are not communicating within their coalition. So, club representatives 365 Milan Bandic are members of the state-level coalition now run by the Republic of Croatia. There aren't any MPs, though. Very often, not very often, but almost as a rule in the assembly of that club so that he never answers, nor responds to such things. But the fact is that aunts in Zagreb and that 10,000 children who are more in kindergartens in Zagreb are a problem of national level. And the non-application of state pedagogical standards is a problem of national level and I do not agree with my colleague, Spiko, who probably supports Mr Bandic in Zagreb that this should not be discussed in the Parliament. Our aunts in Zagreb have no higher salaries than teachers in primary schools. Those salaries are up to 6,000 kuna. The maids have 3,000 kunas, and these are not salaries that someone would boast about if they were big. Our aunts are not complaining about themselves, they are complaining about children, because there are too many children in groups, because there is no plan to develop a network of kindergartens in the city of Zagreb, because they have no resolved funding for the purchase of auxiliary equipment and toys, which the kindergartens are disastrously equipped with. For what? Because they no longer have a plan to stimulate how to work in kindergartens and all of this is justified and should be spoken of. Our aunts, and now I'm going to tell you one truth. Every morning when I come to kindergarten and bring my children I see how badly equipped that kindergarten is. When we brought them here to the Parliament that group where my kids were going and when I walked them through the Parliament and took them to the cakes at the restaurant, you know what the kids were drawing the most tomorrow? How they ate cakes in the restaurant because they do not have an adequate diet in the city of Zagreb. They have 11 kunas normable for a daily meal. That's the problem, ladies and gentlemen, and we need to talk about it in this House, because Bandic is doing nothing, Bandic is not the solution, Bandic is the problem. He buys cars, builds fountains no one will walk around and our kids don't have any toys or food. And that's what Mr. Spika here in Parliament needs to talk about as much as you support your friend Bandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u7056	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Miro Bulj has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I can guess what he'll say.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u7057	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A colleague, Maras, injured the Rules of Procedure under Article 238, also spoke about a subject that was not discussed. He talked about the party's relationship with Milan Bandic and MOST, which has absolutely nothing to do with this topic. There may be in the context that the SDP ruled the Croatian state and that you... They didn't respect. [[You don't understand.]] It was as if he had ruled the City of Zagreb and had brought the state into the situation he had brought it to. Maybe it would have been a much better debate in that direction, not that the Most nickname that appeared three months ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u7058	I'll answer the same way I did before. That's right, my colleague Maras left the topic. However, I repeat, if we were to restrict everyone from speaking outside the subject, I'm afraid there would be lasting silence. So here's what we're not going to take as a breach of the Rules of Procedure. But now my colleague Maras has reported for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u7059	Thank you very much. Articles 232 and 238, Mr. Bulj wrongly raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure because I had just cited the topic of intrapolitical problems in the Republic of Croatia, I was just talking about it. I was talking about Mr. Bull saying you're with Bandic hand in hand, and now you're calling him here. So why don't you invite a man to a meeting and sit down and discuss these issues. So MOST is in coalition with Milan Bandic. The MOST is in coalition with HDZ, try to figure it out. All the problems that are happening today in Croatia are also happening because of the MOST, because you cannot function in that coalition. Our aunts also protest over MOST in Zagreb. And our students don't have payments for MOST. It's you, you're in power. Try to figure it out. That's what we'll tell you all the time. Club Milan Bandic is not a solution but a problem. Look, have you seen anyone from that club for days? Neither Mrs. Perkovic nor Mr... Neither Mr. Bilek nor Mrs.... [[You don't understand.]] Four MPs I haven't seen here in months. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u7060	Thank you, dear colleague Maras. Now it would be enough with the violations of the Rules of Procedure and the abuse of the institution of damage to the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you nicely, we have plenty of opportunities in our performances in these five minutes to say what we're thinking and what's not in the agenda. Therefore, let us not abuse the other institutions of the Rules of Procedure in order to express any of our views. We will now go to what we came here for today, and what's on the agenda. The first draft of the law is - Proposal for a law on alternative consumer dispute resolution, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 32; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You've received the material into the boxes. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, no proposal from the Proposer is accepted for this legislative proposal to be discussed in an urgent procedure and the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading shall apply in the debate on this proposal. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. The Honorable Deputy Minister of Economy Leo Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9206	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament before you is the proposal for an Alternative Consumer Dispute Resolution Act. This law will implement Directive 2013/11. The EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2013 on alternative consumer dispute resolution. The implementation of Regulation 524/2013 will also be regulated. The European Parliament and the Council of 21 May 2013 on online consumer dispute resolution. The purpose of this Act on Alternative Consumer Dispute Resolution is to provide consumers with access to simple, efficient and cheap ways to resolve all domestic and cross-border consumer disputes. The deadline for ending proceedings under this law is 90 days, and can only be extended exceptionally. The basis of this law or the criteria laid down in the law will set out national authorities for alternative consumer dispute resolution to be notified to the European Commission. In this way, all bodies for alternative consumer dispute resolution from EU Member States will be appointed according to uniform criteria. This will allow consumers to contact the body for alternative consumer dispute resolution in an EU Member State that is not their country of residence in cross-border disputes. The Contact Point for online settlement of cross-border consumer disputes will be the National European Consumer Centre, which operates in the Ministry of Economy. Proposals for alternative cross-border dispute resolution are submitted through an online dispute resolution platform. This is a tool that allows complaints to be filed with all supporting documents by electronic means in the language of any Member State. This bill will bring about a harmonisation with the European acquis in the field of consumer protection, a reduction in consumer disputes in courts, in particular small-value disputes, and increase the confidence of traders and consumers in the internal European market, which will have an impact on the economy as a whole by increasing national and cross-border transactions. Finally, the importance of adopting this law should be highlighted as soon as possible. In view of the fact that the deadline for harmonisation with the Directive on alternative consumer dispute resolution was 9 July 2015, the European Commission initiated the infringement of EU law against the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 258 and Article 260(3). The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU for the purposes of non-notifying the relevant national law, which provides for the directive in question, and for which the Republic of Croatia has also received a letter of notification as well as a reasoned opinion. Every further delay, we expose ourselves to fines for the timely implementation of EU legislation. I propose the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9207	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, obviously. Therefore, I am opening the debate and will be the first to speak on behalf of the SDSS and Reformist Club of Representatives, the Honorable Representative of Mile Horvat. I can see that the Horvat colleagues don't seem to be here. Nothing loses the right to debate. Next on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative Goran Maric will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9208	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the Ministry of the Alternative Consumer Dispute Resolution Directive, came into force on 8 July 2013. So it's been three years now that this directive could have been applied. For the past three years, consumers could have been more protected but it is good that this law came before the Croatian Parliament because in the chain of the manufacturer-seller-supervisor, or consumer, is the most unprotected is this last customer-supervised consumer. Although the trader is also a buyer, but in the market for industrial consumption, and on the market for wide consumption, the customer is the consumer's final consumer. If we did some sort of analysis and research of all the residents who use services or buy products, but most of us, what would be the satisfaction of the end-user with that service or product? For example. Almost all of us have a relationship with the electricity supplier, with the gas supplier, with the teleoperators, with the plumbing, with the banks, with the purity I'm sure and the paradox is that most of us would be most satisfied with cleanliness, and it's garbage, and it's the most unsatisfactory with these others. No car in the world spends as much gas or oil as it says in its catalog, no commercial exists that partially deceives the end-user and the buyer. And the most important question is what is the quality of the product, the price and the time limit of use. The lower products and services with higher quality, i.e. the quality of products and services, are getting lower and the price is increasing. The proportion is quality and price. Sometimes the products that last for two years have lasted ten years. When a person thinks about what product could fit the price, quality, term of use, so I can almost think of only television to satisfy these conditions that a man really is satisfied when he buys what he paid and how long it lasts and what quality he has. But what's most important today is that every customer has to look at the origin and place of production. That it's very important. This bill has also been passed, i.e. proposed to help protect consumers and to settle disputes between consumers and producers by alternative means. It is not doubtful that market behaviour and attitude towards the final customer are mostly due to the increasing and poor quality of the requirements not only seriously considering but rather re-establishing the state inspectorate in the Republic of Croatia to protect the citizens of the Republic of Croatia from the poorer quality that flooded the market. It's a particularly dangerous Internet sale. In fact, you buy what you don't have enough information about the product. As far as the bill itself is concerned, we believe it will help resolve disputes and we believe it will help make the manufacturer's behavior more serious. And a more serious relationship with the customers. He's a buyer, and it's supposed to be the law. Without a buyer, there are no manufacturers or merchants and in fact it's uninterrupted in that regard. It is good that it is proposed on the Legislative Committee that this bill goes into two readings and the HDZ Club supports going to regular procedure because it should, this law is needed, it is welcome and should only be done a little bit and in two readings to discuss and see what the shortcomings are and how it can be improved. In Article 10, which provides for general conditions of expertise and independence and impartiality of the arbitration authority or alternative dispute resolution. It prescribes that persons carrying out disputes with the body must have certain competences but does not speak by law which competences. We believe that the law should be defined because, under paragraph 2 it says that the alternative solution body will work out in detail what is considered competences and then it can come and will certainly come that different competences will apply to different bodies because they are, because there will be many bodies. It is therefore necessary to regulate by law that there is no difference, that competence in one body is something that is not competence in another body. Also, individuals must be appointed at least three years in time. We think it's a bad solution, then it turns out that it can be named in one body for ten years, in the second on three, in the third on four, and that should be a unique time of appointment. If they are not obliged to follow the instructions of either party or their representatives, they shall mean that persons who are in the process of implementing an alternative solution to the problem are not obliged to share, follow the instructions of the parties, which means they are not mandatory but can. Such a solution should be corrected not to follow and not to follow. They cannot be resolved before the end of the term of office without justifiable reason. That's good, but then you need to state what the reasons are. This proposal for a law does not contain the reasons for which it may be resolved before the term of office. Article 12, for the purposes of Article 10(2), that alternative consumer dispute resolution body will organise professional training where necessary and... Whether the law determines and not only opens the possibility, we think this should not be defined as such but it is not determined when the need is created and whether or not it is written by that body can and does so and does not stand in the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Article 14 states that in the event that persons carrying out the procedure are employed by a professional organisation, etc. the alternative consumer dispute resolution body must also have at its disposal private financial resources sufficient to fulfil the tasks of the persons carrying out the procedure, the extent to which these funds are sufficient. Perhaps in one body there will be one, not defined which are and who assesses how sufficient these funds are, which level of funds is sufficient. Article 16 of the Alternative Consumer Dispute Resolution Body is obliged to publish an annual report on its activities on its website and, where appropriate, through other appropriate means. With all my mental efforts, I couldn't tell what other appropriate means were. If the law determines then we suggest that by the second reading you find that it is on the web pages and if there is anything else to make it clear where and not through other appropriate means, whether it is a daily newspaper, a website or something else but be defined. In Article 18 of the Alternative Consumer Dispute Resolution Body, it is necessary to ensure that the party is able to read within a reasonable period of time. We suggest that you determine what the reasonable time limit is, because a reasonable time limit is for someone three days, for someone eight, for someone 30, and for those a little bit more lazy, more tolerated, maybe 60 days would think it's a reasonable deadline. That's why we think it's necessary to get rid of it. Likewise, before agreeing to the proposed agreement, the parties must be given a reasonable period of time to consider it, again more clearly, the need for clearer definition, the setting of reasonable deadlines. This bill will certainly help consumers and customers to be more protected, to have ways clearer, more precise, cheaper and faster to solve the problem of dissatisfaction with the said product or service. But that's why the law, because of its sensitivity, must be completely accurate and clear, not ambiguous and enforceable, and we think that these suggestions will help and the HDZ Club supports the proposal of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9209	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Club, the next one will speak to visiting representative Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9210	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club will support the Proposal for a law on alternative consumer dispute resolution. So now we have also received one draft law on peaceful dispute resolution and specific disputes, consumer disputes. It should be noted that we, now far away in 2002 and in 2003, passed under the first Law on Peaceful Dispute Resolution, unlike a wealthy American who in 1970 noticed that the judiciary was expensive and that it could not build new buildings or increase wages, nor hire judges, but had set off in an alternative way to settle disputes. At first, even regular procedures have gone astray because an institution like any good cannot immediately revive, because good things are really starting to take small steps. But already after 5 years now, and especially today when we see percentages of those civil ones, therefore civil objects solve one over 80, even up to 90% in which state in a peaceful way. So also the recommendations, not only this directive, which we now integrate into EU law, but also the recommendations of the Council of Europe, speak about how Member States, therefore by all their any resolutions, encourage Member States to settle disputes peacefully. Why is it important and according to what principles of peaceful dispute resolution is being implemented? So unlike previous speakers, exactly what is flawed and what they find faults about the inaccuracy of one and the firmness and rigour of the norm should be said that this is exactly the way the stimuli speaks and the favor of peaceful dispute resolution. Because peaceful dispute resolution means less formal procedure which is precisely what this law, the bill of law, allows. The goals and purpose of every peaceful way of resolving, and then consumer disputes, is to reconcile the parties. In this case, therefore, the trader and the consumer creating one tolerated atmosphere for later their business, i.e. sales and purchase. Another not less negligible, perhaps most important about the speed of the procedure. Therefore, given that such a procedure is informal, that the parties do not have to, that is to say, those arbiters who are in charge of this reconciliation are not only acting by the principle of law and legality, but also by the principle of justice. This is a fundamental principle, therefore, but of course excluding those cases that their settlements would be contrary to any legal system. Therefore, it is related to the reduction of costs, with a reduction of time to the benefit of both sides that are calming, i.e. the trader and the consumer. Unfortunately, if we look at the percentages to which extent, so now for almost 15 years now, 14 years since we have been able to settle disputes peacefully, unfortunately this is still not the way to settle disputes with us, not that it is not dominant but it is not acceptable at all. Therefore, the state should do everything to encourage people and in such cases, in civil matters, in trade disputes, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, with, to, to, In this way, the courts would be relieved, and I have already noted the benefits of creating a tolerated atmosphere would have been for the participants themselves. I must point out that Croatia, even if it did not have such similar legislation, was known earlier years and decades after the peaceful settlement of trade disputes in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. I'll only mention the constantly chosen court, and so will the Chamber of crafts. We have, too, a note on this occasion, we also have a peaceful resolution of individual or individual disputes against the state. Even in the Code of Criminal Procedure, the amendments to the CAP allowed the individual suspect, i.e. accused of a criminal offence, to settle with the state. Unfortunately, we'll see, good luck with the Penal Procedure Act, but how it goes without a problem. However, we still have difficulties in this type of subject. Basic characteristics which I would especially like to point out on behalf of the club, which is to enable on-line resolution of consumer disputes. Because on a certain condition that he is a trader, that the trader has a seat in the Republic of Croatia. Thus, the need for the consumer to travel is removed, so he-line can resolve his dispute. The important thing is that this bill, therefore, enables and I believe now depends on how fast the bodies will be created that will be in charge of this peaceful dispute settlement. What is said in the provision of Article 3 concerning the purpose of the law, it is noted that the law will enable consumers to start procedures on a voluntary basis. Therefore, the principle of party disposition also applies in the Law on a litigation procedure, so before regular courts, so it is quite logical that volunteering here is a fundamental way of doing things. But I think it's just seeming like it's too high a word, but it's not because it removes any need for the consumer or the trader, we're talking about consumers and their protection here because it's primarily the aim of this law, it's not conditioned that he started the peace, so the peace didn't work out, and then he'd just turn to the court. But I believe that one of the options in further development and amendments to the Law on the Procedural Procedure will go exactly in this direction so that procedures of less value and simpler procedures will have to be dealt with in a peaceful manner, as many countries have already introduced it, and in the EU, not by removing the basic principle of action, which is the availability of courts to citizens. Article 5 refers precisely to this subsidiarity mentioned in Article 3. If we see in this legal interpretation the concepts that are stated then beyond any doubt is that the trader is a legal person, any person who has a head office in the Republic of Croatia, I have already said that, but this applies to both natural and legal persons. I'll look back once more on the process itself. What many consider to be a lack of this law, that not everything is precisely defined, is precisely what enables the arbitration officer, whom the law requires to have unquestionable competences in the area of alternative consumer dispute resolution, and I must say that in the Republic and Croatia have spent a lot of money in the education of new arbiters, but has experience in arbitration, so to enable the arbiter to have access to the parties in order to achieve a peaceful settlement, so that they can settle the dispute peacefully. What is also important in order to affirm such an option towards traders and consumers, which is transparency of treatment, the obligations of all these bodies in charge of peace and arbitration is to submit an annual report, to point out in their annual publication of percentages of resolved procedures, how time is average and how these decisions are implemented. What's the characteristic of this kind of thing is that they're usually tied up, printed with very small costs, so they require less costs, sometimes they're even free and the speed of resolution. The law provides, which is very important and also given the nature of this type of dispute, that the trader is based in one EU country or in Croatia, and that consumers can be located in any EU country. What can often arise is the problem of conflict, not jurisdiction, but conflict of lawfulness that the law applies. Now it is very important that justice, which allows the arbiter to resolve the case in such a way that the law will be applicable so that it can also agree with the parties. Thus, the law is designed in such a way as to enable and ultimately call all those future users i.e. consumers so that they can solve their problem quickly and efficiently, their dispute. However, we have recently, in recent years, dared to say for 10 years, and especially in this recent recent recent recent recent recent history, even when we pass any civil civil law that concerns it and the protection of consumers. However, as previous speakers have said, it has been overwhelmingly evident to us that since we have more formal protection that consumers are becoming less and less protected. Therefore, it seems to me that this bill could also contribute to consumer protection and improve this consumer protection at its speed, expeditionivity and lower costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9211	Thank you very much. Next, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST, the honourable representative Miroslav Šimić will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9212	President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, a few words on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most. The formal reason for the adoption of this law is to fulfil the obligations made by entering the EU and in this case by implementing the Directive on alternative consumer dispute resolution by law and by ensuring the implementation of the Regulation on online consumer dispute resolution. How we could have already heard all of this done 3 years after the Directive came into force and after we had already and then been able to proceed in the procedure of its application. The fact is that consumers refrain from cross-border purchases because of their own uncertainty, because of mistrust and because of differences between Member States' rights. The implementation of this Directive aims to achieve a uniform practice through qualified bodies, regardless of whether cross-border or domestic consumer disputes are involved, and online dispute resolution by EU consumers against EU traders is also required. The deadline for harmonisation with the directive was 9.07.2015 and we really support the adoption of this law, but we do not understand why everything in our country must be done at the last minute, why then the Croatian Parliament is expected to pass the laws by emergency procedure when we were 2 years old to solve a problem. The deadline, as we all know, has passed, is now being initiated by the European Commission in violation of EU law against the Republic of Croatia due to delays and we are discussing this today. We think it is an important segment for the development of Croatian society, for the protection of consumers, and we think it was natural for both the Croatian government and the Croatian Parliament to be on our benches much earlier, for this directive that strengthens trust and consumer confidence, which ultimately facilitates the settlement of disputes to traders far earlier. The MOST segment considers consumer protection extremely important and therefore, of course, we will support the adoption of this law. We believe that this law will ensure a simple and effective resolution of domestic and cross-border, online and offline consumer disputes, increase consumer awareness of their rights, increase the confidence of traders and consumers and the single market, thereby affecting the growth and development of the economy in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9213	Thank you very much. The final presentation will be held by the Deputy Minister of Economy, the Honorable Leo Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9214	Thank you. I just wanted to say, I wouldn't really answer some questions directly, I was more inclined to say I agree with everything that's been stated in these comments, therefore, to the honourable MPs and MPs. It is important in this law to watch what is the spirit of this law, which is that simple, efficient, fast and cheap ways of solving can therefore enable this cross-border settlement of online and offline disputes. So reregulated this law may not contribute to this simple and quick dispute resolution. So what we already have experience in these peace centres that exist in the HGK, the HOK and the Croatian Peace Association, we think we should use it, we see them as future bodies for alternative consumer dispute resolution. The platform, just a few information about some operational implementation of this law, so the platform that solves these online disputes has been put into operation since 2 months 2016. Our Consumer Dispute Resolution Centre at the Ministry of Economy already has insight into this platform but it is necessary to pass legislation so that they can implement it. Secondly, all these bodies that need to be nostrified for alternative consumer dispute resolution will appear to the Ministry of Economy, these criteria will be laid down, but for them all will be certified by the European Commission so that they will be listed as European dispute resolution bodies. So I particularly consider this law important in terms of increasing trade online sales that our citizens are using more and more. I think it is some information that about 40% of citizens are already benefiting from it and it will give confidence in such a way of trade, and on the other hand it will not discourage consumers for some expensive procedure, seeking their rights, for example when buying goods or services from another Member State. Here, so I think this should be looked at in the context of what these alternative consumer dispute resolutions need to bring, and I think this law is very good. What we also urge is that it be brought within the time limit for us not to come to this stage in front of the European Commission to get some kind of penalty and we believe that the spirit of the law itself is very positive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9215	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate. About this bill, and we'll vote when we get the conditions. The following is the proposal for an Alternative Consumer Dispute Resolution Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. Thirty-two. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. A proposal for an Alternative Consumer Dispute Resolution Act is hereby adopted. 1. All objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final draft law. Please vote. Who's in favor of such a proposal? I'm asking for a result. 125 for, none against and none abstention. I find that the conclusion has been reached unanimously.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9218	President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs, here's to shorten the exposure. I'll use the shortened names of these agreements because they're pretty long. That law confirms the Agreement and the Additional Protocol in order to ensure their provisions within the meaning of Article 141(1). The Republic of Croatia has become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. The Agreement lays down safeguards which States Parties shall adopt in accordance with the terms of the agreement for all original and specific visual material in all peaceful nuclear activities in their national areas, in their jurisdiction or which, under their supervision, carry out only elsewhere in the sense of verifying that such material is not directed towards the use of nuclear weapons or other nuclear devices. The International Atomic Energy Agency shall have the right and obligation to ensure that protection measures are applied in accordance with the terms of the Agreement and the European Atomic Energy Community EURATOM and the States Parties shall cooperate to the extent that this applies to each party in order to facilitate the implementation of the safeguard measures. The additional protocol shall determine the data and the way in which each State Party shall provide information to the International Atomic Agency taking into account the need for avoidance, braking of economic and technological development or international cooperation in the field of peaceful nuclear activities, respect for health, safety, physical protection and other security provisions which are in force as well as respect for the rights of individuals and the protection of business, technological and production secrets, as well as other confidential information. The EU signed the non-proliferation agreement with the International Atomic Energy Agency in Brussels in 1973, while the additional protocol was signed in Vienna in 1998. It should also be said that the Republic of Croatia has been party to a bilateral agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Atomic Energy Agency on the application of guarantees related to the non-proliferation agreement since 1998 and the implementation of an additional protocol since 2008. We regularly inform the International Atomic Energy Agency of the overall nuclear material in its national area, and the inspectors and the International Atomic Agency shall carry out surveillance to verify that the situation is indeed in compliance with the notified situation. However, by joining the EU's Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia has taken the obligation to notify the European Commission of nuclear material in its territory. The adoption of this law will avoid duplication of the same obligations stemming from previously signed contracts with the International Atomic Energy Agency. By way of derogation from Article 23(1) of the basic Regulation, the Where the State concerned with the International Atomic Energy Agency has concluded other agreements for the application of protective measures after the entry into force of this Agreement for that State, the application of the safeguard measures of the International Atomic Energy Agency and pursuant to that Agreement shall be abolished, while this Agreement shall remain in force, subject to the obligations made by the State under those Agreements, so as not to benefit from the subjects subject to safeguard measures in a way that would encourage their application for military purposes. Therefore, the implementation of this law will take place through regular activities of the National Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security, which has been responsible since the accession of the EU Republic of Croatia for taking activities related to the classification and recording of nuclear material in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9219	Thank you very much. Does the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? I don't see anyone answering. I'm opening a hearing even though I don't have anyone registered for the time being. No one seems to be in favour of this topic either of the clubs or of the individuals interested, so I'm finalizing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions come to pass. Final proposal of the Law confirming the Agreement between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, Ireland, the Italian Republic, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the European Atomic Energy Community and the International Atomic Energy Agency on the implementation of Article 3.1.1.4 of the Treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and of the Additional Protocol on the Agreement between the Republic of Austria, the Kingdom of Belgium, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Republic of Finland, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Helen Republic of Ireland, the Italian Republic, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Portuguese Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the Kingdom of Sweden, the European Atomic Energy Community and the International Atomic Energy Agency on the implementation of Article 3.1.4 of the Treaty on non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 34. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I'm voting on this bill, so I don't read it all over again, if that's okay with you? Would you please vote for the proposal? The vote is over, 124 for, none against and neither abstention. I find that this law has been passed unanimously.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9222	Thank you. Well. President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. You have before you a proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the inspection law in the economy with the Final Proposal of the Law. Here is my wish to introduce you to the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Inspections Act in the Economy. Currently, the Inspectives Act is in force in the economy which entered into force on 6 February 2014 and which was adopted because of the abolition of the State Inspectorate and the takeover of the Ministry of Economy, the inspection operations in the field of consumer protection, energy, mining and pressure equipment. During the application of the applicable law, there was a need for further regulation of the market surveillance work in the field of consumer protection and in order to comply with specific laws laying down the competence of market inspection as well as the need to include certain professions such as veterinary agronomic and sanitary engineering, subject to professional conditions for market inspectors’ jobs, toxic chemicals management inspectors for the taking over of a number of former State Inspectorate of those professions. At the same time, through the application of the law, the necessary economic and efficient management of the inspection procedure was assessed in another way, a different method of sampling for the purpose of checking the safety, or the conformity of technical products placed on the market of the Republic of Croatia. In view of the powers of the Market Inspectorate to control the safety of non-food or technical products only, and the practice of the EU, this law regulates the obligation to take one sample of the technical product for testing, instead of the 2 samples that were primarily for food products. The proposed amendments to the law introduce significant changes in the conduct of an inspector in the holding relating to the infringement procedure in such a way as to enable economic operators to remove identified irregularities within a specified period without sanctioning unless the same irregularities constitute a serious offence that threatens life, safety and human health, property of greater value, environment and if the economic operator is not in a return to the same offence within a year. The above amendments are in accordance with the principle of opportunity under the Criminal Code, and are also based on the monitoring of the case law of infringement courts in part-round inspections in the holding. In 2015 alone, 555 convictions have been received at the Department of Investigations in the economy of the Ministry of Economy, which find the defendants guilty of making fines, and 191 convictions which find the defendants guilty but which are released because they have removed the consequences of the offence, have fulfilled the obligation of failure to fulfil the traits of the offence. A clear regulation of cases in which an inspector, as an authorised prosecutor, will avoid the discretionary assessment of the inspector to decide independently on the application of new institutes, thus establishing certain control mechanisms in the application of them by the inspectors. It's final. The applicant considers that this law will allow for more efficient conduct of inspection operations with the aim of encouraging economic operators to comply with the rules, and consequently the possibility of non-subsidisation if they remove irregularities in their business and which are identified in inspection supervision. The primary objective of inspection is to comply with the rules, not sanctioning, so unless economic operators repeat the same infringements through repeated controls, a preventive role of inspection will also be achieved. On the basis of the above, I propose that the Croatian Parliament adopt this law by an urgent procedure, given that this law proposes a reduction of repression against economic operators if they remove irregularities in business as well as further dispensation of Criminal Courts from criminal proceedings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9223	Thank you very much. And now we're moving on to committees. So, will the Committee’s rapporteurs take the floor? I don't see anyone answering, so I'm opening a debate. First, on behalf of the HRID's Club of Representatives and Independent Representative Shandor Juhas, the distinguished representative Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic will speak. I don't see her here. He's losing his right to speak. Next on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists is the esteemed representative of Ruzica Vukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9224	Thank you very much. The MOST of Independent Lists as the initiator of the proposal to amend the Inspectives Act in the Economy fully supports the proposal. After 1.1.2014, the date actually ends with the work of the State Inspectorate. The Ministry of Economy shall take over inspection tasks in the field of consumer protection, energy, mining and pressure equipment. As a major amendment to the applicable law, it is proposed to introduce the principle of opportunity from the Criminal Law to the work of the Inspector and, in accordance with the views of the Criminal Courts in the same principle, to initiate infringement proceedings on the basis of the indictments and inspectors in the holding as authorised prosecutors. Since the application of that principle, it is proposed to exclude serious, or serious infringements prescribed by the regulations which are within the power of the Ministry of Economy and which oversee economic inspections, which threaten the life, safety and health of people, property of greater value, environment. In all cases, where an administrative prohibition is prescribed, and in cases of re-infringement by the supervised person within a year. The proposed amendments will facilitate the operation of economic operators through the application of the principle of opportunity under the Criminal Code, and will relieve the Criminal Courts in those cases where the supervised person removes irregularities during inspection or within a certain period of time after the supervision has been carried out. The aim of this reform measure is to achieve a higher level of compliance by economic operators through the removal of identified irregularities, and at the same time to reduce the processing in cases where the infringements identified do not have the characteristics of serious infringements. In addition, in order to enable the proper and legal conduct of inspection and inspectors in the holding, it is necessary to make clear cases where the inspector, as an authorised prosecutor, does not submit an indictment or issue an infringement order in order to avoid the discretionary assessment of the inspector to decide independently on the application of new institutes and thus establish certain control mechanisms in the application of them by the inspectors in the holding. In this way, the owners will have in their inspection allies who will direct them to perceived irregularities and not punish them, thus reducing the chances of a positive business result. Economic operators can be more relaxed and devote more time to the basic activity they are engaged in, and not so much be burdened with monitoring the regulations adopted by the State. The concern of respecting the less important rules of these state inspections takes over partly to themselves, while discharging entrepreneurs at the same time. I believe that the implementation of the draft law amending and supplementing the Inspectives Act in the economy will make it much easier for our economies but will also speed up the process of compliance with the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia. I note that this is actually a good and positive example that other inspections and other relevant departments should follow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9225	Thank you very much. The next one will speak on behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Ivo Jelusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9226	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues, this is a relatively small amendment to the amendment of the law, but let me say a few words. It is therefore not controversial to amend this law when it comes to enlargement if I can say waist, certain waists that have not been covered so far and which can carry out inspection surveillance. It's agronomic, if I don't cheat on sanitary engineers, etc., veterinary. That's not controversial. What I have to say at the beginning is what's controversial, and that's what we said when the agenda was being determined why does this law go according to emergency procedures? When you look at it, if you haven't looked at it, look at the reason for this law and the explanation of the emergency procedure. There's not one thing that's mentioned in that explanation why it has to go through an emergency procedure. So, even in the very explanation, there's no telling why it's important in an emergency procedure. So if this had to change, and it had to start two months ago and two months ago first reading and now two, nothing would have happened if we had gone back to second reading in a month. I say that simply because of the order in this House because we even accept that there is an emergency procedure that doesn't even have an explanation why it goes by emergency procedure. But good. So basically we don't have any objections as a SDP club about these changes and additions, they're fine, we just have the procedure as it's done. What we will support this law is, in addition to other things, which in some ways prevents bureaucratic self-will, and which is generally aimed at the work of the state administration, especially in inspection affairs. There's always a question of what the inspections are for? Are they used to force fear on those who oversee or to bring order and protect consumers? So I think that the inspections should be due to this second one, so that there is order in the country, that regulations, laws are respected and that protection of those to be protected and, as a rule, and mostly here, is mainly about consumers. So, if that's the goal then the law must be in that sense and set, that's his intensity must be. And in this part of it, the law treats it that way, and that's why I think it's good, and that's why we're going to support it. When it comes to detecting certain irregularities in entrepreneurs, the law therefore allows it not to go immediately to sanction or file an infringement order or an indictment proposal if, within a specified time limit set by the entrepreneur, it is necessary to remove those deficiencies. Because we think that's good. So, because we're going to solve the problem, so we're going to get rid of the deficit, and it's not just about penalizing the wrong one. We often have people afraid of inspections not because they think they've done something wrong, they're just afraid that they'll always find something that they simply don't know they're wrong, that they're in violation, etc. Because there's just so much of this detail that people are just always afraid that there's always something that can be found. And as a rule, there's always something to be found. But that doesn't mean that it was done on purpose or in order to cut down on a citizen, state, etc. It's just that people didn't know. In such situations, people should not be punished but given the opportunity to remove the problem, solve it, and if they do not solve it within the time limit, then go to the prosecution proposal or criminal application, but rather what it is about. And I think there's good law enforcement here in that part, and it's good that it's done. Because you know what they say, people like you don't have an absolutely healthy man and there's no man to go to a detailed systematic examination that they won't find him anything because there's no absolutely healthy man. There's only unsightly, unspeakable people. That's the word on the inspection report. There's always gonna be something, a little something, but if it's the point of that little thing, so it's gonna penalize someone, not to get rid of things, it's not good. So here, a certain discretionary right of inspection is abolished that they simply assess themselves when it is necessary to prosecute someone or go towards the indictment or sanction at all, so here it is simply a clear rule to give a time limit to remedy the deficiencies, and if they do not remove the deficiencies then the inspection is required, therefore there is no discretionary right again whether or not they will go into provoking justice if they can say so, but simply is obliged then to initiate further proceedings, so sanctioning the one who is in breach. In that sense, I think this is a legal solution, that it is going to introduce even more order. But on the other hand, it makes it impossible, if I can say the discretionary behaviour of certain people in the inspectorate rather than simply laying down clear rules and therefore the SDP club will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9227	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused several replicas. The first one is the esteemed representative of Branko Hrg, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9228	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am pleased to see that the law that the then government passed regarding the destruction and destruction of the state inspectorate did not produce much fruit, i.e. that a tax repression was introduced in the past term after that law which several Croatian economies, entrepreneurs, craftsmen could not withstand. And that is why I would not agree with you here with your finding that you do not see the reason why this petty cosmetic change in tax laws is passed, i.e. by inspection laws by emergency procedure. In my view, the laws concerning the economy, the impact on the economy, the repressive apparatus should be carried out in a very urgent manner and should allow the economy to function normally in this country as soon as possible. A month in the economy can mean a lot and there may already be some that will fail because of it. But I'm also glad that you noticed and noticed that these changes will slightly reduce the possibility of such bureaucratic self-will that you said to the tax collectors who, therefore, are really rude and repressively able to perform, and from the opening statement in the extreme case, you can see how many penalties have been paid to misdemeanors across different economies. Really often sucks instead of warning people to be able to remove some minor defects they were killed in the head directly. So in my opinion, absolutely these laws should be passed by emergency procedure very quickly and very urgently.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9229	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Ivo Jelusic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9230	Well, dear colleague Hrg, I'm glad we're getting along, which is that the law's intensities are good in the sense that they don't sanction, sanctions work, but simply sanction when someone doesn't remove the shortcomings. He's glad we're getting along, but all the rest of you missed. It's like you haven't been sitting in this room or in the previous Parliament and you have. So there's no policy change here as you say the last government has torn up the inspectorate, so now it doesn't change anything. It's not true that we kicked his ass and it's not true that something's changing now. Therefore, we have said that the State Inspectorate should not be unique but should go through the relevant ministries because one who is therefore implementing a policy in a particular area should be responsible for the overall policy in this area and for inspection of surveillance in that area. Logically, yes, because if there's something wrong with the segment, I'm saying, for example, the economy or any other segment that the public perceives that the minister is guilty and he had no leverage in terms of inspection, now he has them. So that's good too, and thank God that doesn't change. Therefore, nothing has changed in this work and this is, in fact, also in this second part where we introduce less bureaucratic self-will, where the law aims not to penalise but to correct the situation, to change the relationship, to introduce order but not to aim at basic pensionisation and the continuation of the SDP policy that we have already started both in this law and in a number of other laws, not to talk about protection, the Labour Protection Act, etc. Therefore, the policy objective was, I am pleased that this government continues to do so, which is simply not at all cost, so to punish itself, but to punish only when someone purposely or intentionally commits an offence, makes mistakes and does not want to eliminate them when warned.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9231	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9232	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Representative-esteemed would like to ask one question whether the inspection and through this law will continue to have all the powers as they have so far had to simply blackmail and recruit practically businessmen in some way if they are either not well-liked or disturbed by someone? And this could indicate one of the few days of an example from my city where a businessman has employed 11 people and 35 clients and comes inspection and finds him a worker that he hasn't reported. Example 28.12. is admitted worker, 4.1 is registered worker, comes inspector's report, says 35 thousand kuna fine if you don't pay immediately then there's 50 grand, if you pay you we're closing the facility and 35 people who, the question of a nursing home, we're closing it for you. So I'm asking a question here in the Parliament if it's for inspection, is it the turn of one businessman who means, a new year, it's a question of three days, a registered worker for permanent and I personally had a similar case as a businessman where one day I didn't report my daughter and I went to the judge for a violation. And I paid all my debts to the state. I'm just asking a question here in the Parliament do the businessmen have to worry about the slightest mistake and he's immediately punished or should be warned and given some time to solve their problem? I think this other one should be more correct. The businessmen are not thieves, not all businessmen are criminals and not all businessmen are those who cheat on the state and thank God we read about the newspapers and we see who are the ones who cheat, who haven't paid taxes and nothing happens to them in this country and we who probably pay taxes and we do everything on a regular basis are some opponents of anything. And I hope that this inspection, this inspection bill, will make sure that the inspectors don't have that kind of authority, and they don't have that kind of repressive attitude towards employers, and that it starts working properly and sees who's really honest and who's not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9233	Thank you. The honourable representative Ivo Jelusic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9234	In one part, we agree in the good part, which is that the inspection should therefore be in terms of protection, so legality, respect for the rules of law, but not that it should be targeted and sanctioned, just the aim of sanctioning. And that's where we agree. Of course, there have been certain phenomena of such and even blackmail and rocketling entrepreneurs etc. This must be prevented. These laws must introduce a space for such an action of inspection. I couldn't agree more. So they're not criminals, but that there's crime in entrepreneurship, there is. So those who commit crime should be sanctioned, punished, and those who do it because they didn't know it, out of ignorance, or some kind of benign offense. Well, that doesn't have to be sanctioned. And that's why this law in that work is as good as a series of others that I've talked about and in the debate in the previous direction, yes. When it comes to some petty mistakes, petty failures to warn an entrepreneur you didn't know, okay. We accept you didn't know, here's a deadline for you to remove it, if you remove everything in order, if you don't remove it, then you have to punish it. But there are always, now the question is, of course, by law, and we determine what punishments they are, what penalties they are, etc. But what's the question, which is what needs to be seen in the legal act, is a little bit of how to say with a certain understanding and not what. Some things people don't know, they didn't know because they simply couldn't force regulations and no one could study or know, it should be tolerated. And some things like you say one example, then a bad example, work on black. There's no entrepreneur I don't know that can't have a black worker, no. Therefore, it must be sanctioned there is no warning. It's known, every entrepreneur and every employee knows they can't work on black and there isn't, it has to be sanctioned. And today it can be done very quickly, within a few hours of reporting to the worker. Therefore, there should be no discount, but where a man really did not know that he was wrong there should have a certain understanding.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9235	Thank you very much. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Andrija Mikulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9236	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, I wanted to rephrase to you in the sense of my colleague Jelusic when you were talking about honest and honest people, experts who worked at the State Inspectorate who worked in the inspection today. Then I got the impression that when you say, when the inspector comes to surveillance, he's got to find a little something. He doesn't have to find anything. I'll tell you based on my experience, a 10-year-old in the position of Assistant Chief State Inspector. You've had terrible experiences of positives where it comes into large systems, medium or less where there's no gap. So the perception was that it was a repressive story and it wasn't good. And what I hear is it saddens me that one of my former colleagues came and said 35 thousand kuna, first it doesn't have legal, that amount doesn't exist. So, we have something else called the internal control system in the former inspectorate or today by the ministries. That's where people have to control the law enforcement control, so, Inspector. I can tell you that there are cases for those people who have sinned but they need to be watched from the point of view that these are people who control the enforcement of the rules as police when they stop you. These are not people who can make decisions on their own. We here bring to the government's proposal laws that they must apply and control. That's the difference. And that's what you need to know.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9237	Thank you. The honourable representative Ivo Jelusic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9238	Well, colleague Mikulić, I know that you've worked in the inspectorate for a long time and that you're looking at this problem in another way, so from the inside. I agree with you that there are really people in inspectors who do their job correctly but there are others. When we speak of what is wrong, we speak of those who do good, and those who do good, that is understood. So they are paid to do so correctly with good intentions and in the interest of implementing regulations and laws. So we really have a certain number of people in inspections and not just in inspections but in general in the public sector or the state administration that exactly is the goal that when it comes to somewhere it doesn't think it's a job if it doesn't find a mistake. That's exactly his goal. Because his goal, whether he's experiencing it, is that the problem of his psychological structure, is that another problem, is there a racket there, these are different questions. So that's what I'm talking about, and that's what we have to fight. Look, I'll give you an example, be careful. When a state administration office has therefore not changed the regulation that, when the minimum technical conditions are changed, when switching from one person to one person to b, it does not have to be the minimum technical conditions again because it is the same space, only the same activity, only changes the physical or legal person that is inside. And now watch out, and okay, it's passed by law. That's settled. The government has to accept it that way. But you know what he's doing, what has an example that he's asking a person b who... Again, bring us a solution that we have broken the rights to... the one that was before, the one that he betrayed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's absurd, it's experience. But why absurd? Because they betrayed him, they have him with them, but they ask him to bring the other one who doesn't know this before what happened. What does a man do here? That he goes to argue with them, not because he's not worth fighting with, and then the poor is asked how to get out of it, he calls me if there's anything he can do. I say of course I can, that these jobs don't do what they do but he says please don't... Then I'll get caught. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is a problem, therefore, that we have certain wills, bureaucratic wills in the administration, which we have the will to inspect and that should be prevented.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9239	Thank you very much. And the last replica of the esteemed representative, Željko Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9240	Mr. President, another law. And we are surprised that Croatian citizens lose confidence in the system when it seems that the only original product in Croatia is bureaucracy, socialist, corruption and ineffectiveness. A key word in this inspection. We have 20,000 companies without any employees, registered, hundreds of thousands of blocked companies, companies that owe hundreds of millions in taxes and we stamp people's cafes for two kunas. What's the word? But no law can be implemented to be written by all the Indus gods and Catholic saints if there is no mechanism for this law to be implemented. And who is this mechanism? It's a trained and well-paid people. You have porters on Cineplex who have more pay than Croatian police officers, and every day there can be life at stake. You have tax inspectors working for the church then comes to a local marshal who's been pulling millions of kuna money and he offers him 50 grand kuna for, what are we surprised at? Until it's fixed, and we haven't figured it out in 20 years, we'll always be an inefficient state. I'll just add one more thing. Scary things happen in the private sector. You have, one woman I met, working from 8 to 12 yesterday for the church. In normal countries, the time after work hours is paid for the first shift of captains and a half, the second double, is paid double. And this woman works, and we sit here, discussing laws, some that go through procedure 30 times. Where does all this come from? We have a population of 4 million people who can't create an effective state. It's criminal, we don't have much time, and that applies to both left and right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9241	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the HDZ club, the distinguished representative, Andrija Mikulic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9242	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So here's the debate, so I think it's very important. But first of all, there were some words here that, I've been in the State Inspectorate for a long time, but that doesn't mean I'm not objective when I'm talking about the system. My colleague Jelusic came to you for information and I was in the real sector, living from the real sector and in the real sector. So I know the story you're talking about. I've paid wages a month for a few years for a number of people, and I understand what it is when you make and earn and pay from what you've earned. But I can also agree with what you say everywhere there are both. But that minority if it exists, and apparently exists like when we talk about corruption. We can never eradicate it, but we can raise it to a minimum. Therefore, it cannot, they cannot and must not be a representative of what is positive. So I think we'll agree on these things. What you've been saying is minimum technical conditions. I beg you here for the sake of the Croatian public, for all of us. People who are inspecting, doing inspections, so they're looking into the facts of what they're doing, who are trained for the job, who let's not forget are highly educated people, you don't have an inspector who isn't at that level today, doesn't exist. It's changed by law. So these are people who have been educated for something. I'm gonna fence up a little bit, so I'm gonna say in this part of the former state inspectorate I'm talking about. About the emergency procedure, we're now talking about whether all this is proposed is okay. But we're not in for an emergency procedure, and we're talking or some of our colleagues are talking and saying we want to be partners with the economy. So what kind of partner are you to a businessman when you've been making regulations for months, amending regulations? Well, that's the point of things to talk about. So we have to be partners. But not partners that make those who inspire the shrubs. It's their job to inspire, to deal with it. So, do control the implementation of the regulations. Why, Inspector, and I welcome these changes. Why is it that the inspector is in trouble what the esteemed representative says when he comes to determine a factual state that is not in accordance with the law. If he closes his eyes and after him comes someone else and a third into that control and sees that he has sinned, then he is directly in the problem and is subject to the internal control system and the law-based measures that go on because he has not done what he has been paid for by the same economists. I agree with you that we can discuss legal solutions. So remember what deadlines were for applying when you start working. So remember that when it came to the site, then it was, all of a sudden they were saying I came here this morning, and everyone knew they were already working a certain number of days. Because from that moment on, I came in this morning, and we started to run a deadline, and we were creating a black hole in the budget, there was no giving, there was nothing. Based on the same laws where one minute it suits us that they are, in another moment they are not. As for the urgency, it was supposed to go with those things yesterday. When we talk about these minimum technical conditions that you mentioned that we're not going into detail now, we're talking about it, I remember exactly what this is about. So today you have bodies that are based on the law certain solutions and they are so-called. The solutions we've chosen to bring from the office under the law normally. If that's the case, it's people who control something. When the police stopped you, it wasn't that cop who passed that law. I'm afraid he didn't even take part in the proposal to pass that law, let alone in some kind of change. But it has to be used. If he doesn't apply then he's in trouble. Therefore, this House is the one that will ultimately pass or will not pass a single law on the government's proposal. I can't not say again one of the most convincing worst, worst moves that will enter the annals of the worst political moves is to disband the State Inspectorate that the government has passed. Why? You say so the minister makes the law, so he has to have a half for a solution, to control that law. And please nice in which country in the surroundings of the Republic of Croatia it works that way. Well, that's what we had before. Let me remind you, '97. or '98, respectively. The State Inspectorate was formed as a central inspection body that produced the result. And I'll say it again, no matter what '98. So someone will tell me then HDZ was, yes, then there were some ministers who were very strong in that government and didn't let them separate their inspections. So that's not good. We will advocate the formation of the State Inspectorate as a central inspection body. But a partner relationship, not a relationship to come, so he's got to find something. I'd like to see, there were almost 1,000 people in my system, 750 operatives a day. I led the Economic Inspection, 453 persons operationally daily on the ground, all of Croatia, 5 district units from Rijeka, Zagreb, Split, Varazdin and Osijek with 38 facilities, networked all over Croatia. And now I'm asking you, did these people do a good job? Absolutely! And we had a so-called. Economic inspection and market today. And I ask you as Deputy Minister to initiate, and I have heard the minister and I welcome this proposal to proceed with the formation of the State Inspectorate. That's absolutely necessary. Not to make it a repressive apparatus, but to have a partner relationship with a businessman. As far as I'm concerned, I'll tell you how it worked when we had that opportunity and it was centralized. We were then on the website of the State Inspectorate publishing patterns that will be watched when you arrive at surveillance. Why? To show a partner's relationship. So it won't be when you come to surveillance if one of the inspectors asks for something new every time. And that gave us the results. So, you as an economic operator had as a potential supervised entity an opportunity to read on the website of the State Inspectorate what an economic inspector who deals with catering and tourism, who deals with consumer protection, who deals with trade and crafts. So, I'm talking about areas of surveillance. The economic inspection, today's market, was the feather of the State Inspectorate. I said 100 grand of surveillance was done annually. One surveillance has four to five controls in it, gentlemen. So that's 400 to 500 thousand controls. We can discuss that the Construction Inspectorate may have a longer procedure because of procedures and what is the essence of supervision, but I will tell you technical inspections involving electrical, mining and pressure equipment. Well, that's very complex surveillance. Well, you have to be educated when you come and see that something needs to be inspired and concluded. I'll also tell you how good and good professional people they are. You know that you have a solution to the possibility of an appeal which is in the second degree being resolved, either accepted or rejected or possibly annuled by an inspector's solution if the elements are found that it was wrong. And then you had the possibility of a administrative dispute. Let me tell you if out of 100 disputes 1 or 2 were lost in senior courts. They're those people. And that speaks of their attitudes and expertise as well as quality they have done and still do their job. So it's not normal for the State Inspectorate to move no longer as a State Inspectorate Integrated Body. Why? Because some ministers remembered who are sitting with you here today in these benches so it would be good for them to have a lever of control. Imagine miracles! They would pass laws, and then they would control them, or make bill proposals. Is that a normal situation? Why? To call the inspector who's in his system and explain to him what this man should do. So you have a few principles in working in the system. One principle is the principle of independence of the work of a civil servant. And no one can and cannot put that at risk. Well, we had that experience in '97. and '98. that's how it was. And what happened? He formed an inspectorate as a central body. Why? Well, because there was a need for it. About these things you said the measure, I absolutely support it, and when I see it and I read it, then I see that you've taken some experience. I'll repeat, in France, when the inspector comes to surveillance and determines a certain failure, then there is a deadline until which this supervised entity can remove it for the individual infringements that have been committed. After that deadline goes again control and if it is established then the penalties that are o-ho-ho are high. So, incomparably high compared to this part. So you have a problem when people come to you to monitor that the businessmen are angry at the inspectors you're making laws, why this, why that? And there I can agree that every businessman needs to know what the definition of working on black is. That's right absolutely. And that's why I welcome this when you say it, because here, you know, there's always a problem when you give discretion to someone who decides what's the limit? But you already have that legal option today when an inspector is assessing the extent to which the level of the offence can go. Is he going to go with a misdemeanor order of what you've been saying or will he go to the judge for violations? There's this one zone we can talk about. And here it's defined that there are violations where you don't go this way and that they're violations when you threaten property, life, etc. The environment doesn't have a dilemma. And it's a good suggestion in this part of it, but we have another problem that we'll probably be able to open up on certain reports from some state bodies, which is when you have a situation where the inspector comes to you, a concrete example and finds illegal exploitation of mineral raw materials and starts, and you know that it's a criminal offense in the back of a few years, depending on how it was committed, etc. And you come into court, what's going on? Not even, the sentence being tried is not within the range of minimum to maximum but goes to warning because it is the right of the judge to determine. Let me not tell you that certain proposals for criminal charges are being rejected for the illegal exploitation of mineral raw materials, and that is my responsibility here, and that is why I will discuss it when there is a report from the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. So it wasn't a good practice was and then you go to the talks with the presidents of individual courts to try to arrange some things to have uniform treatment. Imagine the man who's giving that offense to court and then gets it back, because he has to be answered for being punished by a warning, imagine that. Where's the authority of this man who's inspecting that inspector? So the next time he comes, everyone tells him, so whoever you are, whatever he writes in court, I'll get a warning. So that's, here's what I see, that the distinguished representative of Dark-Taritash approves of it because it's also operational that part knows how to do it. So these are the problems, gentlemen, when you're taking serious action. So it should not be forgotten that we pushed over a billion kunas according to the budget as technical inspections of the state inspectorate. Let me tell you how many convictions have come? 10%, embarrassing but it must be answered by those who have conducted the proceedings, when it rises from our level to another higher level. And that's not a good message. To work, to keep the surveillance going for a few days, to spend the day, to keep the diaries all and eventually to the situation that the minimum penalty is not fixed. So that's a bad message to people in the system. So I support this part to go and I ask you to go towards forming a state inspectorate, that is necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9243	Thank you very much. Here's your exposure caused a whole series of replicas. So the first of them will be the distinguished MPs of Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9244	Thank you very much. My colleague Mikulić, I would agree with you in your presentation. When it comes to inspection, it is always important to say that inspectors in terms of their knowledge must also have general knowledge but must also have specific knowledge in order to be able to do their job and there is something that we have completely forgotten along the way, which is educational surveillance. So the inspector's job is to be in the field, not to be in the office, but what's important is that he has educational supervision. In other words, it's said exactly now that month we're going to visit and these different companies when it comes to inspection of certain knowledge and supervision is exclusively educational to see what's going on there, to talk to people, to let them know what it is and then the second or third time you go, then it makes sense to charge the fines. This charging penalty actually led to the situation that on the one hand you must have people who are the most qualified in inspection because you have to do such a job, on the other hand about inspection very difficult to get such a quality fit and then you happen to be on the ground to really revolt because everyone when the inspector sees that moment is a problem. I can say this with experience from the level of construction inspection, but the inspection is an inspection. Unlike these other construction inspections, we never allowed whether it was any political power or anything from the Ministry of Civil Engineering, from a spatial arrangement and whatever the ministry was called for a simple reason I repeat a quality inspector must have general knowledge when it comes to, therefore, all of this from the point of view of legal and other but must also have expertise. If you want to get a quality inspector on the one hand is financially but on the other hand if you want to get that inspector to be valued on the field then there must be an emphasis on educational supervision. So you always go through one part of your education, and then if you haven't done your job, then measures can come. It's not good to go measures without it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9245	Thank you. Dear Representative Andrija Mikulić will respond
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9246	Thank you very much. Here, regardless of the political option, I agree with you. So the question is, I haven't been able to tell you everything, but I agree with this general and specific knowledge. Well, the conditions for an inspector aren't when you graduate from being an inspector. So he's got his way. It was 5 and 10 years old, so the criteria have been reduced some, etc. About the pay, the staff, now you tell me who's going to do the job for the money that's going to work today? Well, I had a case where two of my inspectors were beaten up in surveillance when it came to monitoring the apartments. Let me tell you that in Samobor, I've been shot at by a man, to tell you that they've done the same thing in My senses to me per man. Okay, other services have done their job, but I just want to tell you so there's no money to go to that job if you really don't think and see that ultimate goal. This is all I'm saying, of course, that I can give up, it's all been reported to the bodies that, not to talk about various reports and the arrivals of various parties that can be very unpleasant, but okay, we have to have that feeling that man is potentially in trouble, so we're talking to these people. And this about education I thank you for reminding me, we have had from the monthly, quarterly, meaning on the basis of the year so it's important that the central body that some don't understand, and not that everything is in one place in terms of the ministry, so when you're cut off and then people who, you have a department of education that goes and every time changes laws and regulations brings to the field, educates those who need to oversee it. So, a very, very complex system.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9247	Thank you very much. The next replica is her respected representative, Antun Vidakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9248	Thank you very much. My colleague Mikulić, first of all, was glad to hear that the tax inspectorate is coming back from the field to me naturally cry out for it. There was no reason for this institution to break down and it didn't have any effect. Participating on a panel that we had with entrepreneurs in Bavaria our successful young entrepreneur said that he had the best advisors in... In the inspectorates, in the tax administration when he started, when he moved and gave birth, of course, to success. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would very much like to have the inspections turned into ours, like what counterpart Mrak-Taritash said, so let's go first and warn once, twice, go why I'm saying it? Because I know a case from Novska. A young man opens a pizza shop, I think a very good pizzeria, hires three, four men, only abstains and comes to him with inspection and asks for a fire cloth. This broad... I'm sorry, right? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So what is it? Well, I don't know, so it says in the law. That was the answer. Okay, I won't punish you with six thousand kunas as much as I can, I'll punish you with three thousand kunas. That's his 100 pizzas. So these are the absurds that I think this government will certainly react to from all those conversations and promises that we simply have to water our entrepreneurship like that plant when you put on a pelzer and water it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9249	Thank you. The distinguished representative Andrija Mikulić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9250	Honored President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear colleague, I said so, and I will speak while I am in good conscience and mind. The worst decision of the political past government was the abolition of the State Inspectorate. You know why? But the public doesn't know that. Let's hear it. At our place at the Ministry of Economy we belonged as a market inspection in 100 square meters was sitting 23 highly educated people. Chief of the sector, that's the third sequence, under the assistant first that's your operative, you know how much a month it's been on your phone that you can use, 80 kuna gentlemen. When you need a car to monitor because a man from Zagreb is going to Dubrovnik, why? So to avoid what, if it wasn't for familiarity in Dubrovnik, there was one of the supervised entities that couldn't profit a car. Let me tell you how many regulations, how many people can be in which rooms and hotels are located, to what amount. And they make millions to the state budget. So in one year, they took on a few of their budgets, budgets. The last one was, I think, about 115 or 120 million kuna. The budget of a state inspectorate based on a thousand people. Cell phones 80 kuna, no cars, non-human terms, 23 people I had in 100 square meters for two years, these were the conditions of highly educated people who were supposed to work. I ask you, what's it like when a party comes to you, what does it look like? You don't have to accept it. And that decision was a disastrous decision they made because they didn't know the procedures and they just had individuals holding a lever inspection and being able to blackmail the businessmen. It was their intention to fail and it won't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9251	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivo Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9252	My colleague Mikulić, you've said a lot, could replicate a lot, but I don't have a simple time in these two minutes I don't get there. So I'll say something about an emergency procedure. So, I don't argue that this is a good amendment to the law and that it should have been passed. I don't argue with that. So that it should be brought now, today, if it's urgent why we don't bring it today, why are we waiting for a week, two or three, why? Because you don't have a quorum. And if you had let go of the procedure 15 days earlier we could have two readings and again at the same time come, I'm talking about it so that you could go in two readings without losing anything to the importance of this decision. That's the first thing. Another thing, please, read both you and all your colleagues... Proposal for the adoption of the law by emergency procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is no indication of why an emergency procedure should be followed. What is stated is why the law needs to be passed, and I agree with it all that this writes but does not state why it is necessary to follow the urgent procedure. At least if you want to do it in an emergency, at least write two sentences as to why, in an emergency procedure, do not judge the Assembly on the one hand, on the other hand, do not prepare such clameperish proposals for the state inspectorate. So, to avoid confusion, it was not the government that passed, and the ruling majority abolished the inspectorate, but the way the inspectorate was organised. So there's still an inspection. The state inspectorate was not abolished but simply distributed to the ministries. By my logic of understanding things, therefore, if for a state of mess in space, if it's a word. about illegal construction, if any, so normally we see this minister as responsible, if there is no, the instrumentators to control it, if there is no inspection, how it will be responsible for that situation. If you have a black market, normally it's the Minister of Economy's fault, not if it's not his inspection, how are you going to blame him for it when he doesn't have the instruments to control it, etc., etc. Not to make other examples. So what you're saying is absurds, that there are 80 kunas for cell phones, it has to work a lot, it's not a matter of an inspectorate in terms, so it doesn't matter if it's an inspectorate in the ministry or a state inspectorate. We didn't tell the law how many phones there were. It's a matter of internal decisions, so increase people's ability to get out for cell phones, for transport, etc. We allow people to work no matter where they are in the state inspectorates or the ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9253	Thank you. The distinguished representative Andrija Mikulić will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9254	The esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, and the esteemed colleague of what you said, so about this emergency procedure if you wanted to be partners with the owners, then you would have gone back to that story long ago and not asked questions like this morning had dawned. As far as the quorum is concerned, you're not ashamed. So it is you who are chosen who are paid by the taxpayers and leave the hall that there is no quorum in this assembly. The question of morality and the cultures of your fellow earners, I can't help it. But it's a question of home-schooling. As far as the State Inspectorate is concerned, the worst political decision will become an annals of political nonsense. You've abolished the State Inspectorate, given it to individual ministries. Let me tell you, you have a colleague of your former minister sitting here, insisting on it. Well, then you have an assistant finance minister who insisted on that, etc. They were politically strong, which is why they could do it with you. And that's terrible! That's terrible! That, for the sake of partial interest, you went into abolishing such an institution. Laws and cell phones, so that's your acting, your officials was to take off. While the inspectorate was then they had limits much larger and people from the field called. Then they called from private phones, so I got a call from the office, because you don't understand the processes that were going on. Well, you don't give funds to work, you're looking for results. And not to talk, so some other things. You didn't give the cars to the inspectors. Is that a shame? What did you colleagues do, Maras and others? You bought cars that have been standing in the garages of the Ministry of Economy for years. Well, you can be ashamed of yourself for the sake of the Croatian public, for that!
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9255	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9256	Dear colleague Mikulić, I am pleased to hear from you and I am glad to hear that you were in the economy, that you worked even then in the inspection. I'm glad that, however, this one of mine, just before my debate was addressed to the inspectors who did what they did, which I don't think is always their fault. I personally don't support any economic crime in the economy. I'm the one who wants everyone to be equal, every businessman, not just some like that, and some people who used this country as an ATM. I'm asking this question, and we all know, we're reading through the media, through a million to 180 million people, they owe taxes to this country. I wonder what people who were at the top of the IRS were doing and what happened to them. Another thing, during Mr. Linic's time, the repressive apparatus was on small businesses, on some cafes, on some irrelevant things, where this television was being recorded, closed with tapes, and so on, whether the waiter had 5 kuna or 50 kuna excess was already a criminal that entrepreneur. So it's all about us so that only the repressive apparatus can be introduced as if we're doing well, and billions of us girls on the other side. I'd like us to be a little more responsible for the team that steals a lot, but certainly the ones who steal a little bit. I'm not asking for any privileges for anyone, but to be the only legal state in this country and to say a lot of what has been done so far, and we have to admit there have been mistakes from all sides. And if especially small entrepreneurs who are in big, big crises today were given a little tolerance so these inspectors could also have tolerances if a man had not reported a worker four days between the new year, so I should understand... Good intentions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I personally didn't do it one day, because the Internet didn't work for my daughter, so I went to court for it. One day charged. You can think that, one day But the inspector's asking for the law, and we have to adapt these laws somehow. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9257	Thank you. The distinguished representative Andrija Mikulić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9258	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Yes, my dear colleague, I agree with you. You know, I learned since I'm a technical profession from fellow lawyers when they explained to me what an extensive interpretation of certain norms is, these legal ones. I'll be the first to stand up for this if we have a period where something can be interpreted. But let's prescribe what are the conditions. As for what you said, you said nicely about the former minister. So that reminds me of what you're holding there. In three kunas, we'll close the joints. It doesn't matter. We'll close the place down. 7 employees don't work, no contributions are paid, and what did you do as a state? Nothing. You've opened the black space. So I see this as an inspection as a partner to an economic partner. Of course we're not gonna let you drive 300 an hour, but we have to follow some standards and we can't all be from the first to the last one. I think we should, legally yes, but we need to be a little more sensitive to people who have one, two, or maybe 250 people on the payroll. They're putting something into that budget. Why do you have a situation where you're having a hard time asking today what you're going to be asking me to do in surveillance? Why? Well, the law is the law. Well, not all businessmen need to know every law. So let it be published on websites like it used to be to see what to look for. And then there's no inspector a, b or c, so everyone's looking for another. Everyone has to ask for the same thing. So I think it's a special story about the IRS. They've never been in the inspectorate system. It was a special inspectorate. But okay. We need to sit down and talk and the inspectorates must be partners to the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9259	Thank you very much. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9260	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Mikulić, your debate was indeed more calm than the replicas we now hear. The key line you've said multiple times now in the replica is that inspectors should have a partner relationship with entrepreneurs. I agree with that sentence. However, it is an important strong interpretation of this sentence. You know, there's a fine line between a partner relationship and going into corruption or crime. So what I don't understand right now, and try to explain to me, you're talking about a partner relationship. Therefore, it is the competent ministries that form the laws, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes them to the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Parliament brings them and, as you say well, inspectors who must have expertise, specific knowledge from their profession must have general knowledge, especially with a huge number of EU directives. So today these people must be highly educated, constantly trained. And they, well you said they control the implementation of those regulations. But if these regulations aren't good, if someone has to put a fire valve on the warehouse and there's never gonna be a flame there, it's perfectly logical that the inspector would tell that ministry that is responsible and that has passed such a law to change these things. That's not what I see in logic. I understand that you're looking subjectively because you've been to the State Inspectorate but you haven't convinced me at all that the State Inspectorate is a body that, independently then, will be able to do much more, much better to have a partnership than those inspectors who will be in the competent ministries saying that they will again have a feedback with the ministries and thus refer to all the nebulosis that exists. In the end, I think it's important, you say it well, it's important to provide people with work, education. It does not matter whether it will be the State Inspectorate as a single body or whether it will be by some ministries. But it is important to provide them with the conditions that they can do their job. But I'm stressing again independently. So, partners up to a certain limit. And it's very important that this line is known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9261	Thank you. The distinguished representative Andrija Mikulić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9262	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, my dear colleague, I must admit I always like to talk to you in an argument. What you just said now I agree in a large part except in one, which is you have some kind of inspection, and the inspections recognize a certain problem on the ground, some phenomenon. As we had the phenomenon of illegal exploitation of mineral raw materials when certain construction operators looked after the wonders for foundations to extract gravel and then thought it was theirs. And mineral raw materials are based on state-owned laws. Now, you have inspectors who, for a particular case of what you're saying, determine that there is no element. But it's not you, and it's not the ministry of colleagues that this regulation brings. It's another ministry. So that's why you're working together between the ministries where things like that evolve after a certain time and make conclusions. And they're making suggestions. Many times, the state inspectorate's staff made proposals to amend the law. To a large extent, it was adopted. Why? So our goal is to have a partner relationship. To us was the goal not every time to come as someone said and punish. I'm here today. I have to punish you. That's not true! They never had the norms to punish people, ever! And whoever thinks the inspector has to have a standard, that he has to punish he's not for superiors of any level if he sets things up like that, and he doesn't see that you have to have a partner relationship with a businessman. Well, I guess we're all interested in developing the economy, not blocking it. What do we have when we bring a ban on a particular company? We have nothing, generally looking. No states, no businessmen. So that part has to be avoided.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9263	Thank you very much. The next is a replica of the distinguished representative, Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9264	Thank you, Mr. President. I agree with my colleague Mikulić on a lot of things you said. You mentioned several times the high education of the inspector and who we are to doubt their work. What always worries me is when we generalize things. Neither are all inspectors right and fair nor are all entrepreneurs thieves and irresponsible individuals of this society. And that's what I think we all need to be aware of at all times. I agree with you when you say that the inspectorate has to be a partner and I support these changes in that section that the entrepreneur still gives time and space to correct certain mistakes without going immediately to sanctions, especially fines, criminal sanctions. Because as you've pointed out yourself, every entrepreneur doesn't need to know all the laws. And it's almost impossible because if we have 40 laws that regulations on protection at work, then the question is how high-quality as an entrepreneur we can absorb and apply it all. You also said that the worst political decision that ever occurred was the abolition of the State Inspectorate. It's not the worst political decision. I would be an extremely lucky citizen of the Republic of Croatia if that were the worst political decision in history. You talked a lot about what you did in that State Inspectorate, but you didn't mention how much you sanctioned and punished your inspectors for not implementing the laws in the way they were supposed to be implemented despite being highly educated. And here's what I'd like you to say more about this opportunity.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9265	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Andrija Mikulić will respond, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9266	Well, Mr. President, the esteemed colleague of the council, so I said about it, but I'll repeat no problem. They're minimal percentages. That's about two to three percent, if you like. So we've got a well-worked, we've had an internal control system where based on reports or anonymous or not anonymous, you're going into internal surveillance of the inspector. It's complex surveillance, that's what people who are trained to do, and seriously educated. Because to find him in the error of a potential offender, you must know very well the system of work he is dealing with. When you ask me about the law, so we have the system, we have sanctioned it. When you ask me about the laws only in the area of economic inspection today market over 350 legal and sublegal acts I agree with you, you know what my sector chiefs have been doing to me that my first associates in every college? Friday at 12 preparations for Monday and sending to the field changes to the rules of the week that were to be followed by the inspector when he came and to know what the measure was if he needed some measure. I also agree that there is no need to generalise. And what you said nicely, so imagine one president of the INA administration so that he would know all the laws, so that he may be responsible for an oil or gas exploitation field on the northern Adriatic, but he is a responsible person. And that's where the inspectors suggested that the heads of the competent regions, or objects, be processed in the sense that there are violations, why? Well, because theoretically he doesn't have to know that as a responsible person. Okay, that's the question of their system how they're organized. And as for this, believe me, a good and quality system of internal control was working and they knew they were being monitored for what they were doing and they had to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9267	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Steve Cule. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9268	Dear President, Croats and Croats, this is how you imagine a company called ZAMP that already rewards them there. pay certain services, they pay services by effect, so according to the number of songs performed by a certain performer. So I'd be interested, and I believe a lot of people here have ever gone to that company ZAMP and found out how much of the funds they've paid off on this copyright issue to Mark Perkovic Thompson that we know about how much his songs are being listened to or our former president to what piano is playing, how much money was paid to him from what I listed? That's one example. And now I'm going to tell you another example. Every time I drink coffee or something, or I honor someone because I don't usually save a lot of money, so I leave, I treat the waiters, I leave the kuna, two don't matter, and I believe a lot of us. Now imagine if the inspectorate came here to find out that they have 10 kuna extras and now that we're going down for lunch or drinks that there's 16 inspectors standing there and the cops with the tape all wrapped up and say forgive me today there's no lunch, today there's no coffee we've found surplus in a 5 kuna cash register or in a waiter's pocket or from what's on the register, ma'am, charge us. Thank you very much. Have a nice weekend.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9269	Thank you. The distinguished representative Andrija Mikulić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9270	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague around this second one, I think everything is clear and we agree absolutely there. Around the first one, I'll remind you that it was one of my favorite topics of ZAMP. Let's remember that. But here's how I like to say for the sake of the Croatian public, gentlemen, distinguished representatives and your colleague may best refer the issue to former President of the Republic of Croatia Mr. Josipovic. It seems to me he has competent knowledge of ZAMP, so we'd best ask him that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9271	Thank you very much. With that, we've exhausted the replicas related to this exposure. And now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, the distinguished representative Milorad Batinic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9272	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues so the Croatian People's Party as Liberals we will support these amendments of the law primarily because these changes which are not radical we discussed last year were at our club and it was in the phase to propose, but we failed but that does not mean we will not support it. Namely, when it comes to inspections, each of us is based on a part of our own debate on personal experiences, and I would not want to, and it is not good that it is already said to generalise things. First of all, I believe that, and in the opinion of the vast majority of us, the inspectorial work is extremely demanding, responsible, should be highly moral, and should be well paid. I think that all of these discussions, the vast majority of the debates that went on might have said out of that basic segment come out precisely for the reasons and experiences that came out of it precisely for the reasons of inadequate wages. But what I would like to say means as liberals we will support the amendments to this law and, in particular, it is said in this part of the economic inspection, precisely because we all advocate through a series of legislative proposals, the promotion of the economy, the creation of a favourable business environment, the promotion of investment and this change in some way, I think it will change what our intensity we saw and at the club last year to change one paradigm which is an inspection. It would also not be good to fall into one trap although I know that my colleague Mikulić did not directly mean when he spoke about a partnership relationship, the partnership is known what it was, I understood what it was about, but what we also support in this part is that it should be very clearly defined and prescribed meaning what jurisdiction is in the inspection of supervision when there is no penalty, when a warning is given, written minutes etc. I'm saying one example I'm going to say, I'm saying all of us in our practice have some experience with inspections, in particular I can tell the forest inspection, that it's just been acting by these principles and by these postulates, advisoryly, educationally, and both executively and far more quality effects it's gained than when it went directly sanctioning on the ground. Perhaps the specificity of the profession, the specificity of certain technologies, but I say, there are various experiences. I'm also not for sanctioning what my colleague Culey said if he stays a tip we go radically cut etc. I'm not, in general, because I think it's far greater damage if it goes into certain things, greater damage to the economy as a whole. Of course, if there are aidevists, here I think that by this regulation that should be studied well, primarily means when speaking control mechanisms, the suggestion of the Deputy Minister, primarily through these control mechanisms, or how the Inspectorate works, you should make sure that the person himself who conducts the surveillance is protected. Subjectivity shall be excluded as far as possible and for the purpose of protecting the person or inspector himself. When I was saying that this law largely changes the paradigm, so here's the HNS Club if this is just a coincidence today, we're going to propose to this House one conclusion that would go not only to economic inspection, but to all inspections exactly in such a way as these amendments to the law to change the paradigm in a way that means that there is no ultimate, imperative punishment, but that one of the tasks in the liberalization section if I can call it inspection services must be the timely removal of the observed irregularities in the work of entrepreneurs. We also have as mayor a lot of instructions not to intervene because I simply did not allow myself to be in such a situation but rather in contact with entrepreneurs, through a business club precisely their experience from an inspection of environmental protection. However, no one complained to me that it was for the sake of an unreported worker, that someone was complaining to me. I have experience in the building, there were these. But no one had the courage, nor was he ashamed to say that he had the case there. However, just as I would not hope that they will discuss this proposal in the Assembly, all inspection services will change the paradigms, their functioning. There also I hope that through a debate that will go that you will not happen again that the inspection turns too clean to be advisory, educational, of course there must be penalizing. Is that going to be defined by law? I think the law should be in that part quite reserved. I'd rather be going on the floor of legal acts that will define direct behavior because each waist is specific to itself. I said an example of my experience. Also experience wood processors. He had a worker on the machine where he was supposed to have a work-protection certificate, that he had it, but unfortunately two days was no longer valid to him. And in the meantime, while the house that educates, which organised a certain number, he was in the process of additional education, could not get a certificate and what happened, the punishment for the employer for the worker etc. And the man's been working on it for 15 years. I think there should be in that part one more quality approach exactly in a way that respects both objective circumstances. Also, in the case of infringements or punishments, the ultimate objective should not be to shut down the plant, shut down the jobs, shut down the plant for at least one day because it is a huge damage. It is precisely allowing business and service provision to continue in a way that is in line with the regulations for each activity. But in principle, I agree with most of the debates that were at least going from left to right, in order to say left to right, but I think we're all basically on track for this bill. And I also hope when we make a proposal for our conclusion regarding all inspection services that it will also be supported through the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9273	Thank you very much. And your exposure caused several replicas. She is the first to be the respected representative of Andrija Mikulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9274	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, I must confess by listening to your debates, it's hard not to agree. But you said this too well about the partner relationship, it can't be the relationship you're working on black, you're doing counter-requirements, so we're partners, no. There's a very important education. That's why I'm talking about that post on the website. So we know if the police stop you today that you have to be tied up, you have to have a driver's license, a registration. So we're so educated in that part. We know we can't go through the red light. Well, that goes for the businessmen, too. But business clubs, stands, talks open, we've had days of open-door inspectorates so people can see that we've been flesh and blood too. So, this one relationship is partnered, but not at the cost of someone being negative, so you tolerate it. I'm sorry that it hasn't been over before that you suggested, but don't be angry, that's what that position was when they didn't understand you for the economy and it wasn't good. I also agree with you to define a partnership relationship that we have a limit in terms of what it is when there is a warning, which is when a criminal order goes. Why do you have discretion? Well, then someone's interpreting here like this, right here. Let's set out exactly what I like to say from point A to point B which are the rules, we have to stick to them. And what you said nicely wasn't just inspector's dignity. The inspector is required under the law to maintain the integrity of the person who filed the application. Imagine one of the employees who filed a report that the employer was giving him a salary on black. Well, that man's afraid for himself. So, were there any leaks? Maybe there were them and there shouldn't have been them in that segment if there were them. And I'm going to conclude what you said absolutely sign. We have to change the paradigm. It's a high moral job. Let's see what it looks like in the surrounding countries? High moral work and what's the key to these people should be motivated, a well-paid job must be. Not that you're proposing fines for 100, 200 or millions of kunas, and you're 15 years old at 8,000 kuna. That's where the space isn't good.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9275	Thank you. The esteemed representative Milorad Batinic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9276	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, colleague Mikulić, maybe I didn't get it right. So I understood what you were going to say through a partnership. So, a business partnership is one thing, and this relationship should, as a partner, be that an adequate word that is now a question. So, but I think I've made it clear. So, more to be advisory, educational, and not to go to penalizing right away. I believe more or less since you agreed with most of my debate that you will also support the conclusion of the HNS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9277	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9278	Thank you very much. I see that we are unanimous here during the debate, that inspections should be advisory and educational at first. For the businessmen that should not happen here, we agree that in essence the inspections of their discretionary assessments are essentially a number of business entities closed without need, while we have examples for the same reasons other business entities do not sanction and harm them for any reason. For what? Because, therefore, inspections could not all, but they could benefit from certain their competitors and thus choke economic competitiveness in those areas. It is good that the time is coming for businessmen to be able to reach the inspectors more freely, not those who came and feared for two, three kunas, because of a bigger bar than prescribed because of some sticker that they would have to close their cafe, restaurant or something like that for three months. It is good that these times are coming, but without professional depolitical inspectors and chief inspectors, there is no good inspectorate. There must be no politicizing inspection, they must be exclusively, only professionals do not work on the political key, so every two years as it comes to power to change laws, regulations. Yeah, perfecting but not structurally changing because our businessmen and people, citizens pay fat and don't even know what the number of inspections is, what the number of inspectors are. Well, let's say he mentioned fellow Mikulić,... mineral raw materials some can extract under the same conditions, others can't. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the inspections need to be evened out and depolitized exclusively. There doesn't have to be a line of reds, a line of blues, but people who are professionals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9279	Thank you. The esteemed representative Milorad Batinic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9280	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, fellow Bull, I see I'll also have support on your part in this conclusion. Namely, counseling-educed. There is practice in certain countries and there is also a certain practice in us in certain professions to announce the arrival of inspection in supervision. I don't see any reason why it wouldn't be a practice, except maybe some specific services. Because I think that would kind of be disciplined by the relapsers if we're talking about not knowing about cafes and that big-time tip. I believe that each of us has some experience in his city, his environment where closure occurred. I mean, it's not good. If it goes that way, then you go positive you get a positive fitback, a positive answer on the other hand. Why we still don't know if I did, maybe I did, but maybe I failed to say it in the debate. In particular, for small, medium, micro entrepreneurs it is extremely difficult to follow a number of regulations especially after 2013, before entering, after entering, applying a series of directives, amending. It's just the forest of it. They're not frames to do. And that's why I'm saying it would be good to generally change the paradigm of all inspection services.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9281	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9282	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, fellow Batinić, you have well concluded that the paradigm needs to be changed and that the inspection should not be just a repressive apparatus. The repression is really a suffocator of the economy, and the repression is of no use to anyone. Prevention, education, and then to the extreme only when the extreme and necessary cases of repression are certainly well established. It was ugly to see a picture when the hotel closed in half the tourist season, when tourists went out with travel bags, suitcases in mid-summer. That's very ugly. It is ugly to see for 5 kuna to close a cafe, restaurant or any object that attracts. But there is a different picture in Croatia. The actions of the inspectors from the south to the north are very different. If they took statistical data, they'd see that by inspection services, and then neither did the perpetrators of alcohol abuses from Istria to Osijek is the difference between heaven and earth. As far as state companies and labour inspections are concerned, no state-owned company has ever complied with the Law on the Employment of Children of the Dead Croatian Defendants, about Croatian defenders who are absolutely constantly scolding and for this reason are not punished. Especially Croatian forests, HEP, Croatian waters in which hundreds of people were employed under questionable circumstances and competitive forms and sometimes without competitions while those who have legal championships were rejected in competitions. There's no response to complaints, to requests. It's a big problem when those who manage state property don't follow laws that have been passed but deliberately challenge them and scrutinize them. There's supposed to be a drastic punishment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9283	Thank you. The esteemed representative Milorad Batinic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9284	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Djakic is pleased that you agree with my debate. Yes, different practice is unfortunately our Croatian story. And exactly, are you looking from the east to the west or from the north to the south? I think that through these sublegal acts, and of course through the supervision of the services themselves, it should be eliminated or those differences of access to the minimum measure. I, if maybe they were somewhere where there was a softer approach to the inspector whether they were those for which reasons and how they were influenced by politics or something I wouldn't want to speculate right now but it's just not good. And what's good, means as Croatia, we need to create, which is one of the key elements, creating a favourable business environment. It means that we have the same approach, especially inspection services, all completely identical and identical to everything, practically in the entire part of the administrative Republic of Croatia. Absolutely, yes. But I'm saying I don't want to generalise, but someone should, I believe the internal control of the inspection will also have a lot to do with it and its proposals in sublegal acts. Great practice writes, life writes laws, and I think it should ultimately go in the right direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9285	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Križanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9286	Mr Batinić, you said that the powers of the inspection should be accurately prescribed, and I agree with you and I support that. I may say the fifteenth time some of the thesis that was said here today but I think it should be repeated, which is, and I'm going to say that the inspection and the priors should not be repressive but educational. So we'll be back to square one. And secondly, Mr Mikulić has already talked about this, it is certain that we must strive for legal solutions that good, good-quality businessmen and priors do not punish them but rather to write a solution and when it comes to the execution of the solution after a month or two weeks if the inspector assesses that the solution is necessary in that case to re-deposit, and that is okay. But I still want to say one thing that happens a lot. We must never pursue in our mind any solutions where inspectors would valorize in any way according to number, do not give God, punishment, or the height of punishment. Because I have to say that I had a chance as a businessman myself to experience that an inspector came to me and said I had to find something, so I have to write something down, and then I came to the judge for the violations, and then the judge said, so I have to sanction something. And then there were several thousand kunas. A real inspector, experienced, sees footage of the so-called state. This complex surveillance whether it's a relapse or not. Another sentence about the South and the North, we know very well, and you've heard of floating cattle and billions of kunas that have gone missing, which we don't know where they are, when the carrier crosses Karlovac then says I've come to the south there won't be any more problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9287	Thank you. The esteemed representative Milorad Batinic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9288	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Križanić, I'm glad we agree. Yes, inspectors should not be valorized by the basis of the penalties imposed, but they can be seen how much he has done and how much he has succeeded, how much he has been able to prevent a relapser or that there are no violations in that segment of the area he is overseeing. And as for this part, in order to avoid subjective assessment of the inspector or perhaps not subject to some kind of rewards on the side, I'm going to repeat it. I'm going to have to reward the inspectors adequately through the salary and give him the funds and all the tools to work so that he can do his job honestly, responsibly, properly. Because when we look at it, it's the first link in the part that controls law enforcement, it means the functioning of the elements of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9289	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9290	Thank you very much. My colleague Batinić, on the line, invited me in your discussion of the educational statement. Today, in the debates of our colleagues, we have heard views of the work of inspections from various conditions, from those who have worked, those who have bound the administration to those who have protected the interests of the businessmen, but I would draw attention to two things that are very important to me. And that's when you have a frequent change of laws and Croatia has made them into the EU, because of everything that has been going on over the past 15 years, etc. She had a key education for people on the one hand both those who work in the office and those who go to the field. And if there's no good education here, if there's no uniformity and law enforcement, then we have chaos. The second thing, we very often because of the ambition of individuals to be above all we bring organisational changes to the state administration and that very important link or lever of the state administration, and then it goes a year since the law was applied, no one finds it appropriate to submit some kind of report that is an effect, which is the result of such changes. Did such changes achieve what we wanted or did not achieve what we wanted, and was that perhaps meant to go in some other direction? So we had a two-time suspension of the financial police, someone remembered to lift the state's inspectorate. Today my customs officers don't pay tourist membership fees. Well, that's something I think a waist, one of the few professions that's mentioned in Bible times to roll them in so they don't pay for tourist membership. No intention of insulting those colleagues who did it, and that just shows how much you miss when you go with something. And the third thing is working conditions. You can't expect someone if someone calls every day that someone has too much, how they're paid well, and basically when you look at their pay and pay for someone who prepares the papers and you come to control them, then it's heaven and earth, then unfortunately things happen that happen. So we need to create a lot of, a lot of preconditions, a lot of, a lot of controls and these kind of things to make the system effective, but first of all, if we change the law, then we need to see what the effects of that law are.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9291	Thank you. The esteemed representative Milorad Batinic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9292	Thank you very much, President. A fellow Shuker, that education is primarily said from my own practice, namely when we made the decision on traveling shops we were then asked for, we actually showed interest and businessmen who have this activity and customs because it was she and the other inspection services we invited everyone to just interpret the law that defines that area. In that sense, education means that traders and we are also primarily for those of us who had to write that decision to see which way we could go. Now, I agree with you on this part, frequent changes in the structure, etc. I remember we used to have municipal, county, republican inspectors like the structure and county inspector I think it took 10 years of work in the profession, but not as an inspector, but in forest practice and then could run, I don't know how many exams there were, plus a state exam, etc. to be a forest inspector. So he had to know the matter, to say who he was going to judge or evaluate or value his work. And this was also the salary of a larger county inspector than the director of the forest economy he was overseeing. Those relationships are messed up, that's where I agree. Whether or not we will succeed, and at what time we will overcome the structure, the state inspector who was more of an inspector, had a higher salary than the one who supervised it. If we're going to say these relationships, it simply depends on this home in some way, but what we hear and some of our colleagues' thoughts just don't go that way, so I'm skeptical here.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9293	Thank you very much. The final word of the esteemed Deputy Minister of Economy Leo Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9294	I thank you for your final word. Well, I would just like to say in the end that from all these interesting ones I would say the debate which is, of course, in a broader context than the amendments and the addition of the laws, it is evident that everyone recognized the importance of these amendments and additions and the direction in which they go. So in a new way how the inspectorate should function to prescribe certain things, that there is this part of educational character and advisory but of course the inspectorate is an inspectorate, he is not an advisory body. It is impossible in one law to prescribe all situations where an inspector can come into practice, so one part of it will be dealt with by law, one part by sublaw, there will also be internal instructions for inspectors and, of course, supervision in conduct. I think it's important that the Inspector's institution and she are very much to be looked after. It will always be like this, because then with a couple of bad cases of practice we question the functioning of the entire system and that's not good, so some internal surveillance and constraint in a different act of law can lead to order. But what we wanted to point out is that the inspectorate here for the economy and that ultimately needs to go in favour of the economy and, of course, sanction those bad situations that happen on the market. So thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9295	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this final bill. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We will also finish today's work and meet again on Wednesday 11th of May at 9.30 and the first point will be the report on implementation of the property management plan owned by the Republic of Croatia for 2015. I wish you a good weekend, goodbye. The following is the final draft of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Inspections Act in the Economy, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 47. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be made aware of the amendments made by the Committee. The Honorable Deputy Minister Leo Prelec. Here you go. Amendment one.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9297	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs. Therefore, amendments to the Croatian Parliament's Legislatives Committee from the meeting held on 4 May 2016 are adopted on the final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Inspections in the Economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-06-0.u9298	Since the government has accepted both amendments, I am voting on the final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Inspectives Act in the economy. Please, who's in? I'm asking for a result. 131 for, none against or abstentions. Thank you very much. I find that the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Inspections Act in the Economy with Amendments has been unanimously adopted.
