ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u7061	Dear colleagues and colleagues continue the work of the session with the point we announced and this is the report on the implementation of the property management plan owned by the Republic of Croatia for 2015. Dear colleague Zgrebec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u7062	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, I request a 10-minute break to comment on the current developments in and around the government that harm national and state interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u7063	All right, fellow, distinguished representative Ivan Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u7064	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, I'm looking for a break because of the state of the immune institution.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u7065	Okay. Dear Representative Silvano Hrelja, distinguished representative Drago Prgomet. Here's the esteemed representative of Hrelja and then the esteemed representative of Prgomet, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u7066	For the same reason, I am looking for a break on behalf of the Croatian party of pensioners and the Independent List of Stipa Petrina.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u7067	Which one? I'm sorry, is the reasons of my colleague Vrdoljak or a colleague from the SDP?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u7068	For these events in the government related to INA, MOL.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u7069	Okay, okay, thank you. Dear Representative Prgomet.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u7070	... You understand? [[Specially enabled.]] [[Intruder Tepesh: Just give me the microphone, microphone.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u7071	I understand. So, the esteemed representative, Nancy Tyrelli. [[Intruder Prgomet: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u7072	... [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u7073	Thank you. I'm setting up a break, you've been looking for 10... And if you'll excuse me, I apologize. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Dear Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u7074	Current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u7075	I'm fixing a break, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, it's still picking up. I'm asking you colleagues here to fix it, therefore the esteemed representative of Dario Hrebak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u7076	On behalf of the Representatives' Club, HSLS BUZ is exactly what I'm looking for for a break for the same reasons as all the other clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u7077	Dear Representative Miro Bulj, you will.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u7078	Also the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u7079	And distinguished representative Milorad Pupovac, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u7080	On behalf of the SDSS and Reformers Club, I am also asking for a 10 minute break on issues of vital economic and foreign policy interest of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u7081	Thank you. Here's a 10-minute break. Continuing it here means 9.50. It's 9:00 P.M. CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M. He prayed that on behalf of the SDP Club, the esteemed representative, Peja Grbin, would explain the reasons for the break. [[Specially enabled...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u7083	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here is not four months since the formation of the new 13 Government of the Republic of Croatia and I have to talk from this pay phone about why a member of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has to leave it. Three months ago it was Montenegro, today it's the first Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Tomislav Karamarko. The name's different, but the reasons are exactly the same. The reasons are that when members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia come from the HDZ, they always have one and the same flaw, which is that they have a private interest in the public. Yesterday and today, all the media in the Republic of Croatia reported that a small unknown Croatian firm owned or linked to the Karamarko spouses in the midst of a major economic crisis has achieved amazing business ventures. In the midst of a major economic crisis, the company found one client who paid them 20 thousand kuna each month, which provided them with the existence, which assured them that they could drive in expensive Mercedes in their spare time. Tomislav Karamark didn't mind at any point that the company was connected to the very bust of MOL or at the time that Tomislav Karamarko spoke and decided on arbitration and the dispute between INA and MOL. Tomislav Karamark did not mind that the company is connected to MOL and that a man who pays them 20 thousand kuna by MOL is engaged in political intelligence activities in Croatia. He didn't mind at those times when he discussed the fates of thousands of Croatian workers. That didn't bother him, but what did Tomislav Karamark have to do with it? Tomislav Karamark was disturbed when the truth about his business ventures began to be written in Croatian media. That's when the press started getting fired. Tomislav Karamark was bothered when our fellow politicians began to ask questions about his responsibilities. Then their medical records suddenly became publicly available. That was Tomislav Karamark's problem. Gentlemen, the wolf changes hair, but the temper never! What we're talking about today, what we're reading about today, shows one thing, which is that it doesn't matter whether it's at the head of HDZ Ivo Sanader or Tomislav Karamarko because the way it works is always the same. And the way to work is to take a private interest, to put your own pocket in front of the public. This affair has shown something else. This affair has clearly shown that Croatia does not have a government, that Croatia only has a group of individuals who, in the interest of foreign lobbyists, skimming around the Ban Courts. Croatia is now at the moment that it has become a hostage of persons who find 10,000 hectares for foreign investors, that the hostage is persons who are trying to privatise HEP, who are trying to privatise Croatian forests, who continuously work for their own pocket and do not care about the interests of Croatian citizens. At least that meant he would sell out all the property that remained owned by the Republic of Croatia. We in the SDP won't tolerate it anymore. We in the SDP clearly ask that Mr Tomislav Karamarko, the first Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, resigned because of the way he acted, because of the fact that he had continued private interest and put his own pocket ahead of the public interest. That's why he has to leave. And if Tomislav Karamarko does not leave, if he shows extreme contempt for Croatian citizens and their interests, then the SDP Representatives' Club in this House will initiate the recall procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u7084	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Vrdoljak on behalf of the HNS Club –Liberal Democrats yes, so please explain the reasons for the break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u7085	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, MPs. The Immunological Institute could be said to be a classic Croatian example or a question of whether or not you will work. There were a lot of cases like this where there was no political power to make a positive or negative decision, and it ultimately cost the country a lot. What is crucial at this point is that the status of the Immunological Institute must be resolved for a million and one reason, and all it takes is political will and political courage. It is likely that the Immunological Institute will become synonym about the way this government works and works because if the government institutions gave the green light to the future of the Immunological Institute, then the question is why the government has not politically implemented it. There are two reasons. Either the Immunological Institute is being guarded for someone else or there's simply no political courage to make any decisions. The Immunological Institute would certainly bring much good to both Croatian health care and Croatian citizens and employees of the Immunological Institute. So I'm going to ask again if someone's holding up an Immunological Institute for someone or someone wants to ruin it because they have a very lucrative job importing everything that the Immunological Institute is producing. Dear colleagues and colleagues, he apologizes that at first I did not point out that this is all I have said so far is a quote, a quote from the respected representative Ivan Shuker spoken from this pay phone in December 2014 and in May 2015 and by my colleague Shuker I agree fully with you and I can say that I am really sorry that you as president of the Club of Representatives The Government does not listen. Then the title: “Immunological is the image and opportunity of the indecision of this government. ” I agree with you. And apparently, you don't listen to me either, you don't listen to yourself, and many MPs here don't listen to themselves in this government while you're fighting over SOA, about the MUP, about the consultants, the contract, who bought that apartment. At the same time, you missed six months with negotiations, four months with a non-functioning government so that I could totally agree with these titles and your quote. This is a quote from a year ago. So in the case of the Immunological Institute when nothing seems to be done, it's a felony. By not doing anything, letting it go to waste is a felony. In order to fulfill my task of constructive opposition and to help the government do something I will remind you of that performance we have provided salaries to people in the Immunological Institute, we have established an institution, a public institution, we have decided to try to save the activity not through d.d. but through the institution, transferred employees from d.d., all employees to the institution and made two decisions. One is the initiation of the procedure for the reshaping of the company Immunological Institute d.d. in the Institute for Health Activity of the Immunological Institute 30.7.2015. We listened to you when you said that we were indecisive, when you said that some foreign interests wanted to destroy the Immunological Institute we listened to you and we made that decision and established an institution and funded the facility. After that, we signed an agreement on the transfer of activities concluded between the Immunological Institute and the Immunological Institute. 1.10.2015 a month before the election. You know what happened back then? Absolutely nothing. So, we listened to you when you said all these words I had to react because I respect and appreciate the MPs and we did our job. As the elections were on 8.11. and we made all decisions, we secured the funds, so I guess someone afterwards needs to implement the rulings of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, not the government in which Minister Vrdoljak, not the government in which Prime Minister Milanovic is in, but the Government of the Republic of Croatia to prove their credibility in order to save the Immunological Institute. The Immunological Institute of the 19th of this month goes bankrupt. The property stayed on d.d. just because no one in this government has devoted themselves to the Immunological Institute of the primary health ministry. And as you entertain the public, entertain the employees of the Immunological Institute. with a solution. [[Intruder Tepesh: Time.]] So I'm going to ask you to get serious and find a solution to the salvation of that, all of you from the center to the right that you're sitting there for what you said in the opposition, be credible and save the institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u7086	Thank you. I'd like the Honorable representative of Silvan Hrelja to explain the reasons for the break on behalf of the HSU club Stipe Petra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u7087	Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. So, this situation in which the main protagonists, Mr. Josip Petrovic, are the lobbyist of MOL, Mrs. Ilona Fodor, who works for MOL and who was a participant in the negotiations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and MOL and who testified in London that Mr. Petrovic is an industrial spy working for MOL. And the third protagonist, Mrs. Ana Karamarko, who, of course, received money from Mr. Josip Petrovic. So this isn't an affair. This is the question of whether we, in which we prove whether we are an orderly state or a social jungle or a simpler pack in which the strongest in position is doing what it wants. So this is a much more serious situation than it seems to be than the value of the money we're all hunting for. What I don't need to doubt and I didn't exactly intend to talk about it because it wasn't my topic, but last night I got a document in the caslic confirming the credibility of the documentation that was in circulation. This testimony by Mrs. Ilona Fodor just a year ago 11 May 2015 in front of the arbitration court. Therefore, the published documents are authentic. I won't, so we're gonna give this to the public and all the institutions because I don't need it and I don't know why I was chosen to come to me in a cage. But probably after you've been elected for the first time, then you'll be chosen for the second time. So I don't want to invite anyone here to resign and shifts, etc. I would like to say, in accordance with my last week's performance here on this speaker, that, evidence that we are a state of absurdity, that is, I have had an exhibition on absurdities in Croatian society to add another absurd, so let the absurds line up, let us indeed become a country of absurdity and let the last citizen and let the last voter know what it is. The bottom's close. This can't go on forever. The absurds have their end, but when we can't prove something to the arguments, then we have to let the situation really get to the point of absurdity, so everyone understands it. So I won't invite anyone. Let each one do according to his own conscience according to this situation. Just let him know that public duty, and it should always be separated from personal interest, that public life and family life are not exactly separate but public duty and personal interest and personal work are and must be separate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u7088	Thank you. I would like to ask the Honorable Representative of Drago Prgomet to explain the reasons for the break on behalf of the HRID Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u7089	Thank you very much, Vice President. Forget private and take care of the public, standing at the entrance for centuries already at the entrance of the Prince's court. I believe you know that, Mr. Vice President and you, as I know and as you all know. If we had held on to this, Croatia would not have been in the deepest economic, moral crisis for nearly 25 years since the Homeland War of Solitude. And let's not fool ourselves about this. It's not the fault of the Ustashas. It's not our fault. It's not our fault. It's not our fault. The guilty are greedy individuals who robbed their own country and treated the public as a personal good, public state as a private state. But let's not fool ourselves into carrying part of the guilt and responsibility, and all of us, all present here. Because closing your eyes to problems doesn't solve problems. Our unwillingness to rise as a naive child at certain times and say the emperor is naked resulted in the state in which the Croatian state is today. Are we honored to belong to a generation that created the Croatian state in the eyes of our own children to be remembered as a generation that threw that same country on its knees? Is conflict the only thing we can do? Have we forgotten what dialogue is? Do we not realize that the situation in Croatia cannot be reduced to the mere relationship of power-resistance at the moment? People are asking us for responsibility, they're asking for reason, they're asking for honesty, and they're asking for an honest relationship with what we've been given the trust to run this country, our country, our country, our children's countries. And that is why I call on the government to instead of this chaos that it produces, instead of filling the headlines of strong external magazines on how and what is done in Croatia, instead of not implementing reforms, one is not ready, and obviously not ready, step down because the gentlemen of this government's success is our success and failure of this government is our failure. I don't want to watch Croatia send pictures of what was more important to us in World War II or right after it than we do today and what the standard of citizens depend on. I repeat, we keep our eyes open. I hold them and I can repeat what I said unfortunately Croatia does not have a government at this time. This country is not being run by this government right now. So either get serious or step back with your eyes open. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u7090	Thank you. I ask the distinguished representative Nancy Tyrelli on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club to explain the reasons for the break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u7091	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The word that has certainly been the most circulation in Croatia since this new government was in power and before during the campaign for these parliamentary elections is the word of reform. Unfortunately, we have seen no reforms from day to day, but it is obvious that after all this is happening, the way that we need one single reform in Croatia, the biggest reform, and this biggest reform would be the reform of our own morality of the ruling nomenclature. What we witness from day to day is that this government really doesn't know what it wants and where it goes, that with each other's bickering and opening up topics that really don't make citizens better than just anxiety, disappointment and bitterness at all that they listen to and see is talking about what a colleague before me said that we all failed the exam together. Looking for a break for five minutes and warning of things that are happening, which aren't right, we didn't do anything at all. At one point we're all in the same denominator and we're all holding the same responsibility. As Parliamentarians, we are certainly responsible for the criticisms that we are giving to the ruling nomenclature and to all and all of what the ruling nomenclature is doing. It's become too much of everything. Is there any hope of talking about INA and MOL being finally once and for all put in a cleaner? To get true information about what's going on and who's involved in it? What is happening to us is only going in one direction, and it is that every day we become more and more aware that people who exercise the highest power in Croatian society, members of the government have become nothing more than lobbyists for personal interests that they make through lobbying for large corporations and large investors under the cover of new investments and new economic recovery. Once we understand, we truly realize that these coverts are only coverts and when we are open and clearly looking for a vote of confidence for these individuals in this House, then we will take a small part of the responsibility off of ourselves and as long as we are looking for 5 minutes of breaks and we are warning about what every citizen of the Republic can read in every newspaper today, we have done a lot. I expect that, as parliamentary representatives, we take responsibility and that we really want the members of the government, in this case particularly the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Karamarko, to point out the situation that we are witnessing and to clearly and transparently state how it is, which and how did he get from whom? Because he's really talking right now about the first vice president of the government's personal interest, the private interest can separate him from the social interest, and I don't think any of us are satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u7092	Thank you. I'd like an esteemed representative of Ivan Shucker on behalf of the HDZ Club to explain the reasons for the break.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u7093	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, I have no intention of being anyone's lawyer here on behalf of the club, but when I said I'd talk about a general political phenomenon, I'd like to say some things. Do some gentlemen still think they can be judges and prosecutors? Do we trust the institutions that we started here in this high house? We've raised our hand for certain laws. If we don't trust these institutions from situation to situation, because if he's chasing a political opponent, then it's wonderful, wonderful and great, but if he accidentally touches me, then it's no good. So if we have a Committee to prevent conflicts of interest, they're probably the only ones who can give a statement about certain things, and they're the only ones who can say that someone, which is why we started them, so we started them, if we don't think so, then we're gonna go over them. But I think you ladies and gentlemen are doing your job right. And therefore, if they exist, if they do their job, if they do it tax-based, if it's tax-absorbing, if it's done by the Office of Money Prevention and everything else, however, my colleagues and colleagues here from this pay phone and in individual debates I've never touched any member of the family of any political opponent, nor do I think of it. However, what worries me as a parliamentary representative is that my colleague Hrelja comes here with a document that no one can get to in a legal way. Just a little please, the testimony on the arbitration isn't public documents, it's a colleague of Vrdoljak knows, it's strictly classified documents because arbitration is ongoing. Croatia has requested an end to arbitration with Slovenia due to the leak of information. So you are colleagues of Hrelja here with this document have brought Croatia into a very difficult position. Because you gave me a document that can't be out there. And colleagues and colleagues, I said at first I don't want to be anyone's lawyer, but I think we should worry about how certain institutions leak information out. Is the question is, any one of us can be in the same situation tomorrow. How does a particular document that knows exactly who can have it, and that document can't have 15 people, that document can only have two people, it can go out? How can the testimony of arbitration go out phonogramically? How, who's got that? They only have lawyers, government representatives and lawyers and representatives of MOL, I haven't seen him, my colleague Ostojić probably hasn't seen him either, Jakovina, Dragovan, you see that you haven't seen him, at least I haven't had a chance to see him. Here someone comes to the assembly and says look I have a testimony to arbitration, it is primarily irresponsible regardless of what will be used for political situations. However, when speaking only about institutions, the Committee for Conflict of Interest will review all documents and give its own right. One of our colleagues recently made a decision that he was in conflict of interest and punished him so much and so much. Were any other family members in conflict interested in another pair of shoes. Therefore, if colleague Karamarko has done something contrary to the law, the commission will say so, but we are not here to judge. But I'm telling you, as Parliamentarians, you need to worry a lot more about how and in what way leaks documents from institutions where they shouldn't leak. Because I'm telling you, if the IRS did a reconnaissance in one particular company, two inspectors do it, and it's the only information they have on the data, no one else does until the process is over. Therefore, it is a key problem for colleagues and colleagues. Because if institutions are doing their jobs, then we don't have to ask here for five more minutes of breaks to warn them of something because we pay them, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia pay them to prevent these indifferences. They don't pay us here to make us a political lamentation. So that's the key problem, and that's where I'm going to stop as far as this work is concerned. Since I said I was going to talk about the general political work of just a colleague of the Vrdoljak, what I was saying about the Immunological Institute at the time, I mean it now, because it's just economic logic and it can't be any different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u7094	Thank you. We have a distinguished representative, Daria Hrebak, on behalf of the club HSLS, BUZ and Independent Representatives Gordana Rusak, to explain the reasons for the break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u7095	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, considering how today, how to explain all this that has been happening in the last few weeks, the level of communication that is ruling in the Croatian political era. I have been thinking about how we would set ourselves up today to represent the interests of liberal democracy in the Croatian Parliament today, just those who worked in even harder times than they are today, so that today one Vlado Gotovinac, Drazen Budisa, will perform to speak to Vel Terzic today. What would they say today to this low level of communication of terrestrial passions that is being passed on today to this high house, how would we today discuss that they are here? Today, the Croatian Parliament, all relevant polls say, enjoys trust, I stress enjoying confidence with a score of two, of five among Croatian citizens. So we all have to ask ourselves today and the government and the opposition that the message with this kind of communication is sent to citizens because it's not just the way we communicate, it's the topics we're talking about. Dear friends, the emigration of young people from Croatia does not last for only the last two months or 3 years. Young people are not leaving Croatia because they are better paid, only because they are better paid outside, they are not leaving today just because they will have better conditions there, and even before there was a crisis. Unfortunately, they are leaving today because of what they see in Croatia, which is hopelessness and lack of perspective. So I'd talk about some problems, but I don't want to reduce any mistakes that we're making, ruling, not at all. We'd be talking about some of the absurdities Mr. Hrelja was talking about but I'd be talking about some other absurds. I would like to talk about the way we conduct this honorable duty in this Croatian Parliament, I would like to talk about the president of the opposition that needs to be given a new hope, which should be provided, to insist today on the criticisms of the ruling. However, the president of the opposition in the last 4 months has been present all together for 2 days in the Parliament in a way that was shorter in this House than one average hockey game lasts. But dear friends, I don't want to be the only one who doesn't want to be the problem, and I don't want to be the one who's trying to blame us, the one who's ruling us. I think it's time to get serious, take on the responsibility that the citizens gave us, I think it's time to reset this communication, I think it's time to start acting responsible to Croatian citizens, I think it's time to start spending what they've given us trust. Dear friends, I think it's time for us to start implementing reforms, start implementing projects. We have no right to give up because of some minor, petty, party or even worse personal interests. I think it's time we started talking about the one hope that still has a little bit of silence in Croatian citizens, a hope that can bring about one perspective, that one hope in the Republic of Croatia can still be created. We are all responsible together and opposition and authority for one better, more exemplary behavior, on responsibility for the work we are doing today in this Croatian House.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u7096	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSS, I would like to ask the honourable representative, Milorad Pupovac, to explain on behalf of the SDSS Club the reasons for the break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u7097	Dear colleagues and colleagues, there is no doubt that the availability of state documents or important documents is a job that we must especially scrupulously do. But that's not only true for one side, that's true for all. If that's true for a colleague of the Temple, it's also true for a colleague of the Bulls. If it is true for those who added the documents to him, so does those who added documents to my colleagues regarding the health records of their colleagues, Bulja. We must protect the institutions, the institutional order, and thus protect each other. And that's what citizens no doubt expect from us. If we call on not to eat each other, then the only possible way is to protect the institutions that prevent it from happening and we don't. Now a few words about the INA itself. INA is in the former Yugoslavia where we mostly spit and talk about the greatest evil Croatia could go through today. I won't argue with that or those who claim so, especially not today and not on this occasion. But in the former Yugoslavia, INA contributed to the GDP of the Republic of Croatia 10% at the best stage of its work and its action. That one company in Croatia contributes 10% or in any other country in which the entire sectors of agriculture and industry and others contribute at 8%, 10%, 12%, in this case one company contributes 10%. And how did people at the time treat this INA, the wave of the people of Sisak, by the wave of the group, who at the final stage received the task of treating it domestically? She wouldn't let anyone threaten the interests of the INA. She did not allow anyone to threaten Croatia's interests in the Yugoslav Federation. So they were able to defend the interests of INA and Croatia's interests in the Yugoslav Federation. And as we defend the interests of the INA and through it and Croatia's interests in independent Croatia and the circumstances of the European and world order, which is a more or less order of open hunting grounds with more or less regulated rules which are allowed and which are not allowed. Unfortunately, we don't defend well. And it's a burden that has lasted for years, and it's a burden that burdens this government, a burden that burdens this Parliament and the burden that burdens our policy in general. Do you need a new load? Are new questions or new compromises needed? Certainly not. A fellow Shuker says at the absence of the arbitration procedure, I agree. I agree. But that's true for everyone and everyone, and especially for some and then for all of us here. And for this reason, some things simply must not happen regardless of how this was assessed by the Commission for the conflict of interest but they are deep, political and moral relevance. We'll haunt the witches but we won't be able to protect what makes us the house we live in.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u7098	Thank you. This is what all the clubs have told their reasons for asking for a break. We're going back to work. Dear Representative Ivan Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u7100	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, please pause for the presence of a protest of pyrotechnics in Mark's square who want to point to a problem in this very important activity for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u7101	I'm setting a break of 10 minutes. Here you go. ... For what? [[You can't hear it.]] Well, we'll keep going. Here you go. It's 11:15 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 11.25 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u7103	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Croatian Party of Rights AS fully supports the requirements of pyrotechnicians to improve the conditions and appropriate evaluation of their work. We believe that this issue exceeds frequent party considerations and it is high time to do everything legally and financially in order to create conditions for our pyrotechnicians to ensure maximum protection of their lives and to the least possible extent of the stress caused by these working conditions and of course their incomes. Last June 3rd, a letter was sent to former Prime Minister Milanovic but without contact and without any results. Therefore, the application is expected to be heard this time. The fact that our pyrotechnicians exhibit their lives for only 3 kuna per square metre of mine suspected surfaces shows a shameful attitude towards this issue. In addition to this problem, which certainly affects the mental ability of pyrotechnicians, because of thinking about the financial situation and feeding the family, pyrotechnicians are at risk because of the unfavourable struggle between all employers who, due to low offers for demining, saves on safety conditions of work. The HSP AS therefore strongly advocates and amends the existing public procurement process where the criteria will not as a so far be the lowest price but the quality and safety of this sector of special services. Data from 15.04. this year, Croatian Mine Action Centre director Drazen Jakupec, 36 killed since the end of the Homeland War 89 wounded. And another piece of information by Mr Stjepan Tadic, Commissioner of the Union for the humanitarian demining of the dead by July 2013, 60. It is necessary to check and coordinate the data and properly inform the public. Similarly, in order to improve the working conditions of Croatian pyrotechnicians, many of whom are developed Croatian defenders according to whom HSP AS has a high sensitivity party will ask the Ministry of Agriculture to increase funds for this purpose through rural development measures, or measure 5, which includes demining agricultural land. Despite the new competition that was announced last week during which 220 million kuna is available for this purpose, it is illogical that only 94 million kunas from nearly 900 million kunas have been used so far, especially since unlike other EU demining bids, we must not keep these funds for possible future disasters, but we must focus them on addressing the disaster of the present-day which minefields in the heart of Europe certainly are in the 21st century. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u7104	Thank you. We're going back to work. So, as I said on the agenda is - Report on implementation of the property management plan owned by the Republic of Croatia for 2015. The report shall be submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 13. Law on governance, availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia. Due to the size of the material the report is not multiplied but is located on the Croatian Assembly website. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Economy, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government and the Committee on Justice. You received the report at the session. Does the applicant want to further explain the report? On behalf of the applicant Mr Tomislav Boban, representative of the State Office for State Property Management. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9300	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and respected MPs. In short, I will only present a report on the implementation of the property management plan owned by the Republic of Croatia for 2015. For the purpose of implementing the Management and Enabling Strategy, owned by the Republic of Croatia for the period from 2013 to 2017 and for the purpose of sustainable, efficient and transparent management and availability of assets owned by the Republic of Croatia and with the purpose of preserving assets and its importance for the life and work of existing and future generations, the State Office for the Management of State Property in accordance with Article 13. The management law, the availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia, is under obligation to draw up reports on the implementation of an asset management plan owned by the Republic of Croatia for the previous year. The 2015 report on the implementation of the RH-owned asset management plan presents a comprehensive demonstration of the systematicised, implemented activities and implementing measures that operationalise strategic objectives and all in the function of creating additional values and achieving greater economic benefits from transparent management of emerging forms of state assets. The most important forms of property managed are apartments, business premises, shares and business shares and land involving former military properties and other forms of occurrence. The way in which state assets are managed is transparent, pro-active, anti-corruption-oriented and is based on the principles of public, predictability, efficiency and accountability, respecting the fundamental rules of governance of state assets. Activities are planned, continuously and flexiblely adapt to current circumstances and conditions in the domestic and international environment. The State assets are managed by three institutions, the State Office for State Property Management, the Restructure and Sales Centre and the State Property as a limited liability company or company. The State Office for State Property Management manages shares and special shares in companies of strategic and special interest for the Republic of Croatia and apartments and business premises, former military properties and land. Shares and business shares in companies of strategic interest are business shares and shares of 56 companies and legal persons of which 22 strategic companies of the group A total nominal value of the portfolio 29 billion 264 million and 730 kuna, including Croatian roads, HAC, Autocesta Zagreb-Macelj, Autocesta Zagreb-Rijeka, BINA Istria, HZ infrastructure, Plov road, transmitters and connections, Croatia air navigation control, HEP, Plinarro, Janaf, Subway storage of gas, HROTE, Croatian forest, Croatian lottery, Croatian passenger transport, ARCADE, agency Alan, Maritime Centre for Electronics, Naval Institute and SKEDE. Group A can only be privatised under special law. 6 legal persons of strategic interest also belong to Group A, they are without the nominal values indicated, these include Croatian waters, HABOR, Dap, HANDA, FINA and Cerp and they are not subject to privatisation and have no obligation to pay in the Croatian budget. 23 companies of particular interest with the majority share of the Republic of Croatia are so-called Group B, they are not strategic in which the Republic of Croatia has a majority share of the nominal value of the portfolio of 6 billion 566 million 27 thousand 420 kuna, and here we are counting state property, ACI, Croatia airlines, Jadrolinija, Osijek Airport, Pula, Rijeka, Zadar, Split, Dubrovnik, Zagreb, Immunological Institute, National Press, Airport Technical Centre, HP, Croatia Bank, HPB, HZ Cargo, port of Vukovar, APIS, IT, Briuni Riviera, Djuro Đaković Holding and Petrokemija. In Group B, there is a possible privatisation, and 5 companies of special interest of the Republic of Croatia with a minority share, whose shares are listed on a regulated capital market, i.e. So-called Group C. Interests in which the Republic of Croatia has less than 50% ownership and whose shares are listed on the stock exchange. Therefore, the total nominal value of the portfolio is 5 billion, 10 million, 156 000 and 720 kuna Luka Rijeka, INA, Končar, Elektroindustrija and Croatia Insurance. The total nominal value of the entire portfolio managed by the State Office for State Property Management is 47 billion 840 million, 272 000 and 870 kuna, and the market value of 12 listed companies on the stock exchange and listed on the stock exchange and managed by DUDI is 17 billion 313 million 156 thousand and 673 kuna. So I'm talking about the nominal amount. It varies on the prices on the stock market and is currently something more favourable than what I've said. Apartments, business premises, and land of former military properties The State Office manages 5714 apartments with a total area of 231511.40 square meters. The State Office also operates with 6288 business spaces of a total area of 330272.28 square meters. 3313 business spaces are a total of 290660,27 square meters, and we also list 2757 garages taken over from the Ministry of Defence of the total area of 37244,10 square meters, and 220 parking spaces of 2365.91 square meters. During 2014 and 2015, DUDI also took over 332 former military properties, so we are talking about unspective military facilities, and in the process of harmonising the conduct of the bodies responsible for resolving property-law relations on former military properties, as well as issues of changes in spatial plans in order to further make real estate available, as well as increasing their value, potential and brownfield investment projects. It's mostly Brownfield investments. For example, for the former Muzil military property at the site of the Muzil peninsula in Pula on 6 November 2015, an optional invitation was issued to show interest in the realization of the tourist project. The value of investment in Muzil is estimated at around 150m to 200m euros. In addition, the State Office plans to activate part of former military properties on the basis of the requirements of local units, i.e. regional self-government, to implement projects that are of public general and social interest. The center for restructuring and sale as the second part of this trilateral system manages shares and business shares in companies owned by the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and the State Insurance Agency for Deposit Insurance or DAB, which are not identified as companies of strategic and special interest in the Republic of Croatia. The CERF manages shares and business shares of 486 companies of which 436 companies are minority-owned up to 50% of the total nominal value and whose nominal value is 2 billion 274 thousand 183, 274 million 183,571 kuna. 31 companies owned by a majority of over 50% of the total nominal value of 3 billion and 544 million 47 000 and 220 kuna. It's 19 companies without business activity. The part of the CERP portfolio cannot be freely available for reservation for former owners, so that part is excluded from sale. The CERP manages, what is important to mention even in 326 trading companies with a portfolio of less than 10% of the underlying capital. State estate d.o.o. the commercial company is established for the management of dwellings and business premises that are leased, i.e. leased and carried out the ongoing investment maintenance of residence facilities owned by the Republic of Croatia. State-owned real estate companies currently have 3736 apartments of a total area of 160430 square meters, and the monthly income of state-owned properties is 1.2 million kuna and 14.4 million kuna respectively annually. Currently state-owned properties have 1006 business spaces of a total area of 74420 square meters, and monthly income from the lease of business premises is 4.3 million kuna, i.e. 51.6 million kuna per year. Reports on implementation and management plan for 2015 consist of 15 chapters that follow the structure of the Croatia-owned property management plan for 2015 and whose contents are data which must include all other issues related to the regulation on the prescribed content of the management plan of the Republic of Croatia, including: Report on the implementation of the Annual Plan of Corporate Management of 556 commercial societies from the strategic and special interest of the link to the Republic of Croatia, Report on the implementation of the Annual Plan on the implementation of the Annual Management of the Croatian Corporate Management Plan of the Centre for the restructuring and the specific interest of the link between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia, the report on the implementation and management of business associations from the part of the Centre for the restructuring and sale of the link between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia of Croatia, the implementation of the management plan for the implementation of the management of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Zagreb", Report on the implementation of the Annual Management Plan or the current investment maintenance of residential facilities owned by the Republic of Croatia, Report on the implementation of the Public-private Partnership Project Plan, Report on the implementation of the Annual Plan for the Management of State Property Register and the Implementation of the Annual Plan of Procedures relating to the consultation with the interested public and the right to access to information concerning the management and availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia. The financial results of the management of state assets are as follows: Therefore, the 2015 Implementation Report of the Property Management Plan of the Republic of Croatia contains individual reports of 56 companies of strategic and special interest to the Republic of Croatia with systematicised financial and other business data. During 2015, companies achieved the following results: the total income of those companies in 2015 is 54 billion 179 million and 563 thousand kuna, total expenditure is 52 billion 35 million and 140 thousand kuna resulting in gross profits of 2 billion and 144 million and 423 thousand kuna. This profit represents an increase of a billion and 3 million and 2 thousand kuna compared to 2014 and an increase of 88% respectively. It was also initiated from the portfolio of CERRP to sell shares of 28 companies and a turnover of 73 million 534 thousand 500 kuna was achieved. It is important to note that in 2015, a solution was restarted for Croatian wartime disableds and their family members and a total of 2354 solutions were adopted and a share of the total nominal value is 45 million 537 thousand and 200 kuna. According to various real estate models during 2015, a total of 555 contracts were concluded, of which 298 contracts with a total value of 73 million 664 thousand and 660 kuna. The largest realisation was made in the most numerous purchase contracts, with a total value of 50 million 948 thousand and 121 kuna for real estate and 4 million and 600 thousand 821 kuna for excess mining of mineral raw materials and 771 thousand 274 kuna for movables. The maximum value of purchase contracts for real estate obtained directly by the sale of land totalling 24 million 383 thousand 464 kuna while the basis of the public call for purchase of real estate is the value of 7 million 660 thousand 972 kuna. In early 2015, it started selling apartments on the basis of a decision to sell apartments owned by the Republic of Croatia and reached an inflow of 15 million 423 thousand 461 kuna. In the last quarter, it begins with the conclusion of purchase contracts for sale of flats on the basis of a rite of payment and 16 contracts totalling 3 million 480 thousand 223 kuna, mostly with a 20-year maturity. A significant income has been achieved by a contract to establish the right of service in total amounting to €11 million 147,570 and an agreement on the decommissioning of the co-ownership community of 4 million 856 thousand 882 kuna. By the end of 2015, 239 contracts were concluded without compensation where contracts on the establishment of the right of service are the most numerous and are mostly related to EU projects. The most important category is real estate donation contracts and a total of 48 contracts are based on the total estimated value of 78 million 975 thousand 148 kuna. One real estate transfer contract was concluded on the basis of which the Republic of Croatia acquired ownership over the real estate estimated value of 17 million 190 thousand kuna. Comparing data from 2014 shows that in 2015 the overall realisation was achieved by a higher fee of 46% and the best results were achieved during the third quarter, which agreed 55% of the total contracted fees on which the largest number of contracts were concluded. The Register of State Property also teaches on an important strategy guideline that all data in the Register of State Assets must be credible and regularly updated and to provide quality insight into the scope and structure of the property owned by the Republic of Croatia The State Office started a number of multidisciplinary activities in 2015 on a multi-annual project to build and implement the information system for the management of state property, etc. ... as a data programme upgrade of the existing register of state property and its transformation from administrative to management information system, thereby submitting wider information to the public administration. [[You don't understand.]] DOUDI's participation in the European Semester continues to be a good practice of previous years and earlier activities under the Republic of Croatia's commitments to participate in the European Semester, the state office continued to exercise its competence with its membership in the Working Group for the implementation of the European Semester and in cooperation with the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds as the main coordinator as well as other state administration bodies in cooperation with representatives of the European Commission during 2015. reform measures related to public enterprises. It is a specific recommendation for the Member States and the Programme for the Convergence of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2015-2018 with the state office active in the participation and bearer of the measures implemented in certain reform areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9301	Thank you. Replica, Honorary Representative Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9302	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative, you have submitted a report on the implementation of the Property Management Plan owned by the Republic of Croatia but it is a shame not to discuss the State Property Management Report and the findings of the State Audit at the same time. Only then would we have a complete picture of what is happening and how the state property is managed. I noticed here, and I don't even know how it's possible to manage this year, that there is no business plan for 2016 that was mandatory under the law to bring until 31 October of last year. So the state office doesn't have a business plan at all for this year. And it is not stated in the report that no business plan has been adopted. Secondly, there are no concession reports and concessions are very important segments of state-owned property management, perhaps in order not to have a concession report given to a 99-year-old company that is registered after the publication of the tender and which does not have a single employee and does not have any kuna income and which is the founder and owner of a company in Austria that also has no employee and no swear income. If the company in Austria is once again owned by another company where one founder is from a country where he is currently probably the former head of office. And maybe it's because it's not to see that the Coopers are not to give in the concession, but if only 1/4 were given, the problem of 1/4 was solved, and it's not an entirely solved problem. I don't know how you guys watch if the optimal solution is CERRP, DUDI, n? To be invoiced, they seek each other, so the real estate is owed to CERRP, CERRP DOUDI, etc. We have here data in 2014 that it's invoiced for ten million and 500 thousand kuna. a in 2015 15 and not charged in 2 years 10 million kuna for renting apartments and real estate. [[Intruder Tepesh:Time]] So 50% is not charged, no unpaid claims are reported. And I ask you to consider it this year and make a report for everyone's benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9303	No, you didn't answer your word? Replica, distinguished representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9304	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I'm going to replicate almost the same subject in a different way. Mr Boban, in this report, lacks the State Audit report for 2015, which makes it clear that he is unfavourable. It's unfavourable in all segments. Irregularities are on all sides of the state audit. Business books are run in no way or very bad way as it says in the state magazine's findings. Real estate records absolutely don't match reality. The property as if it evaporated in that record for 16.6 million kuna. The sale of Croatia's security in the report of the State Audit clearly states that by doing its job, the State Office established that Croatia's insurance was privatised illegally. That's what the State Audit report says. Today, when the midwives advocate justice, I would ask you to tell us something you did on the State Audit report, what is it really about Croatia's insurance as our Croatian silver, what is it with 16.6 billion kuna that has evaporated or is misspelled? If it's misspelled, it's absurd over the absurds. If this report says that 2014 was a clear record that DUUDI was founded in 2011 I don't know what we're talking about today 2015. This is a crime a couple of excellences in state property management. In state gold and silver that's been parted in the past just like that, there's no pause, I don't know why you're not talking about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9305	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first in the debate appeared on behalf of the SDSS and Reformist representative, Milorad Pupovac, on behalf of the Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9306	Dear Mr. Boban, dear colleagues and colleagues, and this topic is just like the one we opened after the break, one of the vital topics for the Republic of Croatia, but also vital to its policy and to those of us who deal with politics. It shows our credibility, shows our country's capacity. We've been hearing more and more lately that the state is not a good master and that it's not a good economic operator. And we know very well what that means. That means selling, privatizing, disposing of the state because it's not the one who can, it's not, it can't manage, it can't dispose. Did it really happen in one period? It is because we treated state property and state property according to that model of social property definition that it is everyone's and nobody's, and then it was literally and literally understood here without any control mechanism, but not in terms of social but state-owned property, and it was more or less so. Today the situation must be better and in a double sense. Yet there are some control and control mechanisms. And on the other hand, there is a clear public awareness that the state must be an instrument to manage what is its own. There is a clear public awareness among our citizens that the state is not only the object of the wishes of historical or other people but is a real instrument for what the needs of the nation or citizens are. Now, what's the deal with this report for 2015? It establishes and sees the fact that in the past period a register of state property has been made. Whether it's complete, whether it's reliable enough or valid enough to tell us. Where it's not complete, where it's not valid enough, that's what we need to hear. The other thing that seems very important to me is that we know and that's not what your predecessor Mr. Boban gave us, Mr.... is what happens with concession fees. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's going on with the rental fees? What are the actual revenues that the Republic of Croatia has from assets that are given to the use of local self-government units, which is given to the use of other entities and how this is indeed achieved. Is the figure mentioned in that income something that can satisfy us, or is it a figure that is far from what should actually be incomed? That's what we'd like to hear. This would fully confirm the credibility of your office, or our work here in the Parliament. The third thing, when it comes to agricultural land, is an important thing for the Republic of Croatia, which is just waiting to move its agriculture in the right sense of the word and where the state, since it owns one significant percentage of agricultural land from pasture to agricultural land, is suitable for different forms of agricultural production. How are things with that? Some of the things we hear are worrying us. We're worried about the fact that, for example, in the past year, the process of enrolling, the availability of agricultural land by certain entities is such that we are not sure that it will contribute to one of the basic objectives of the DUDI policy, which is development. The development of agricultural land that has been given for use by individual entities and I'll tell you what it is. So if it's about pastures in certain areas like Northern Dalmatia, tens of thousands of hectares that local farmers and cattlemen can't get in their domicile areas but can get someone from Slavonia. Although this one from Slavonia in that same Dalmatia, the same person does not have one head of cattle and probably will not have but can receive 1500 or 2,000 acres of pasture. And the one who has 50 or 60 head of cattle, or who has 25 throats of cattle, can't do that, but has to go 30 kilometers away to get a pasture. Maybe one who in Slavonia has 10,000 head of cattle can provide documentation so he can get 1,500 acres. You will answer, you will answer. Secondly, how is it possible to enlist for the use of non-state land? How is it possible for the state to register as property of the land where the cataster clearly stands who is the owner of the land? I know it's not your job, it's your job as a state's attorney's office, but you're working closely with him and he can create the wrong picture of what's state property, which is state property and what isn't. And on the other hand, of course, it can create a problem for those who are the real owners of that land and can dispel them as it happens. And then units of local self-government and state come into a situation to rent and concession something that isn't theirs and create a serious conflict and we have a problem with it. How is it possible that a cattleman from Grazac can't get a concession or can't get a rent for his 350 sheep's throat but someone who's 50 or 60 km away can get for his 100 cows and not only state-owned but also what's his yard? When it comes to housing, in particular in areas of special state care, the Republic of Croatia has allocated a significant number of dwellings to use and this has been justified. But then, under pressure, the Republic of Croatia decided to give these apartments to those who used them. Does the Republic of Croatia know what happened after those apartments that were donated before the legal term of 10 years of use? He doesn't know most of the time. If exactly what we hear is that only in the territory of the city of Knin two hundred apartments have been sold by the users of these apartments after the state donated them and if it is true that in the last few years 4,000 people have emigrated from the territory of Knin, then the question is, what are we doing? What kind of state policy are we running? What was the point of settling people in the area if it ended in such a way that when we gave them the opportunity to own apartments and they sold them and moved on. And on the other hand, to former tenants, we do not give returners to Serbs the opportunity to buy apartments. We create unnecessary and complicated obstacles in Vukovar as we create them in Knin. Why? That money's going to go to the state budget? And they have the right to do so by law. And finally, as far as the government's plan is concerned, that of 500m euros, it is revenueing 500m euros from the sale of state property. That's good, but what assets? Who made the assessment of the value of that property. From what we hear, we don't have an estimate of the value of state-owned real estate because it's said to be expensive to do. It probably is, especially because the value is changing, so it should probably be repeated in five years, but it's probably inevitable if we want to avoid the risks that unknowns around real value take with them. On the other hand, it is very important for you, Mr. Boban, as the new leader of DUDI, to create a clear picture of that it will not be a discount sale because we need money at this point. And it's going to sell but why, just because the state has to raise certain funds right now. Both the SDSS and reformers' club will not doubtfully support controlled processes but truly controlled processes of selling part of state property under conditions that will be transparent and clear. The same applies, of course, to shares in stock companies where the Republic of Croatia has its stakes, equally but not according to the logic of this state is not able to be the owner, so because it is not able to be the owner then best to sell all this out. If we do that, then of course we'll do it according to the same model that we've done it so far. Our country won't be able to, but some other state will be able to do so either by direct state means or by means of its own business people. Vika we don't give our water, we don't give our forests won't help in this thing, just an efficient DUDI, just serious reports and only progress in the overall control of state property, one of the ways that control can certainly be improved because it's being filled with both the cathedral and the land books, which so far has not been the case. We have a nominal list of assets but what's the real situation, we don't know that until these types of links are made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9307	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Stevo Culey. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9308	Dear Vice President, Croats and Croats. State property is, of course, the best part when mine is private, right? Well, I'm on my way. The government made a decision on the donation of a valuable building in Preradovice 23 in Zagreb to the Serbian Education Society on 10 September 2015. The government of the Republic of Croatia headed by Zoran Milanovic as the technical prime minister concluded on 28 December 2015 a grant agreement with the Serbian Education Society. The object of the contract is owned by the Republic of Croatia in Preradovićjevo 23 in Zagreb, marked as Zk 4. no. 3185/1 as the city of Zagreb. Its value was estimated for 25 million 727 thousand kuna. This donation contract is a school example of political trade directed by Zoran Milanovic and Milorad Pupovac and to the detriment of the Republic of Croatia and its citizens. Question, Article 5. The law on the handover procedure, prohibits the conclusion of significant contracts, and this 25 million kuna gift agreement is certainly a significant contract, thus more so as to be contrary to the law of governance, the availability of real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia. Mihanovic's decision of 10 September 20158 is a business decision and the date of its adoption is completely irrelevant. All that matters is the date of the contract and it is concluded in the mandate of the technical government. That means let's go greasy geese and rub our necks.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9309	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9310	Thank you. It's a great pleasure when someone lifts a line before a representative starts speaking. It's even more satisfying if you respond to such a replica. The first contract between the government and the Serbian Cultural Society of Education was made according to the same model as the Croatian Cultural Society Progress and the Jewish community, i.e. the Jewish municipality. Therefore, that there was another way that the legislator was not unfair to those whose property was seized during NDH and that their legislator was not unfair to those who, during the communist regime, had had been intermittent to their organisations for more than 10 years and treated them in the same way as other organisations, such as the Matica Croatian, then we would certainly not solve it in this way but in the regular return process. Since this was not possible, since the legislator made a law that is discriminatory then it is dealt with in this way. And I'll tell you next. If it isn't you, if it's too much of what was the Enlightenment to bring the Enlightenment back. You will also return the Serbian bank building containing the Croatian Post Bank, which was downloaded in the first weeks of the Independent State of Croatia that is at your heart.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9311	Thank you. Replica Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9312	Thank you very much. Mr. Pupovac, you said society is dominated by the belief that the state is not a good master. And you mentioned concessions, loans, claims, rents, everything's justified. And on that basis, it could be concluded that way. But only those who are not well-informed and who are not dealing with this area can conclude. And scientific and empiricalally it has been proven that the quality of management property has no bearing on it, it's scientifically proven. So it's only those who manage that influence governance and unfortunately it's who manages it, not who owns it. It's not about who owns it. It's about how he drives it. Its vehicle management does not depend on ownership. The professional, professional, moral, responsible and integral property doesn't matter at all. It governs his conscience, professionalism, and profession. But you also mentioned social property, everyone's and nobody's. Well, there's proof that so far the management of state property has been managed harmfully and treacherously because, in most cases, it's those who have been indoctrinated on this basis of social, everyone's and nothing else's had a chance, but the only ones who managed state property. What irony! What a mockery of independence and independence of the state! Mocking every defender, mocking every drop of blood in the war, that's how they manage state property. Those who carried the batons built the former state, its keepers managed state property until the last day. Well, of course, then they thought of her as everyone's and nobody's, and it's high time they never run what's called a state anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9313	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9314	Dear colleague Maric, I agree with you because it has long been quite clear that regardless of whether it is purely capitalist or mixed socialist-capitalist societies, management is the key thing when it comes to property and not property. The large shareholders in international corporations do not manage those shares, manage the manager who is in charge. Of course, the same goes for the state property of Norway. They don't run parties that come to power after four years. They run managers who are trained to do so when they are in connection with an oil fund or any other fund. I quote it as two examples. So our trouble is that we haven't gotten rid of the party-political way of managing social and state property, and there's no difference between the periods that you're talking about, the end of the '80s or the '70s and what we have today. It was then called communist, this is today under the name of national. But unfortunately, there is no difference in the degree of responsibility of special supervision and control. Control may be today, today is fortunately slightly bigger in Croatia than it was yesterday but it is still far away, far from what is needed. Therefore, property should be protected from the influence of party political and property and property management should be professionalised and given to the management of those who need to be held accountable, as should those who run state-owned, majority-owned companies of Croatia, so the same goes for the total other assets that the Republic of Croatia has.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9315	We're moving on with the replicas. Dear Representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9316	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a fellow Pupovac, in his argument, he was miraculously surprised and wondered how it was possible for some pastures to be assigned to one another and not to the other? I'd better replace these pastures with Preradovic. How is it possible for you fellow Pupovac to enter into a contract with the Serbian National Council with Minister Šipus, a technical minister who, according to the address of the then Technical President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, gives you the property of 3066 square meters in Preradovic Street 23 based on the withdrawal of your property suit that you are looking for in return that were never even from the Serbian National Council? It's a question of how it's possible, is it an eclectic example of political trade, political trade a couple of excellences? The state's attorney's office is investigating how much information we have on these impeccable actions you are neglecting that, indeed, as Cedomir Višnić claims, you have made your decision to the government and then to sign a contract saying in his statement to the press that this is thanks to Milorad Pupovac's efforts and lobbying him with representatives of the current government. So you can clearly say that by trade you have provided three votes to those who are not helping today because they are in opposition. These actions, which speak of the Preradovice 23 building, belonged to the Serb charity of Zagreb until 47th year, and not to the Serbian National Council Your later agreements, which have described these matters in everything, cannot give you the right to drop the lawsuit for something that never belonged to you to get something. [[Intruder Tepesh: Time.]] It's an example of the political trade you've done.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9317	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9318	Thank you. Dear Djakic, this is not the best time to mention lobbying today. I'm saying it's not the best time for you to use the word lobbying today. I'm just telling you once again, unfortunately, it's not the best time for you HDZ club to mention the word lobbying today. And that's where I'm gonna stop, so I'm gonna go on the scale of things. First, no contract was concluded between the Serbian People's Council and Minister Šipusa because the Serbian National Council did not seek or seek any property based on any right to return the seized property because the Serbian National Council was an organisation founded in 97 years by letter of intention of the Republic of Croatia on the completion of peaceful reintegration and until today there is no own property that benefits and in this sense is wrong to say. The property belongs to Serbian cultural society "Prosveda" by Djakic. What property, owned by the Serbian Cultural Society "Provoda", will I repeat once again the request for return, was submitted by the Serbian Orthodox Church and the Serbian Cultural Business Society "Privrednik". These two last SPC and the Business have given up this in favour of the Enlightenment and have testified by their own agreement and testified by their signature. And since the law unfortunately does not allow Enlightenment because of the interruptions in the work of continuity that occurred for the same reasons as the Croatian Matica, but the Croatian Matica has the right to return the property but Education does not. The only way was to do it the way it was done for the Jews and how it was done for the Croatian Cultural Society "Progress" if you do not want to continue discrimination.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9319	Replica esteemed representative Ruzica Vukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9320	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Pupovac, therefore, I am very pleased that you mentioned one of the biggest problems in me today, in Slavonia it is definitely the biggest problem, and this is the problem of guessing in the assignment of land to individual persons, i.e. individual companies. So, I'd be very happy if this company that you were talking about earlier really had 10,000 cattle, but unfortunately I know who it's about, there are less than 2,000 cattle, and for the third time in the competitions, it's taking advantage of these cattle, so it's bought nearly 10,000 acres of land that shouldn't normally belong to it. However, it is the highest-level guesses. So exactly the institutions are in the grip of such procedures and as long as we tolerate it, until the interests of the state are protected, until the interests of the local communities are protected, until other stakeholders are protected, and there are no advances for us, so there is no progress, there is no prosperity in this country. So we'll still have young people leaving the country, and our rural space will still be devastated and restored. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9321	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9322	Dear colleagues, of course, I haven't named a single firm, but I can see that you know it better than I do, even though we can discuss which firm it is. I don't think anyone should be punished for having 10,000 cattle or 2,000, on the contrary, should be in the same position as everyone else. However, one who is 25 or 50 must not be punished in relation to one who has 2,000. And he is punished if he who has 2 or 10 or 250 will have more advantage than this. In particular, he will be punished if, in his domicile area, he cannot get on the use of pastures that can be obtained by those who do not have a domicile area. A similar thing is happening with Croatian forest policy where small sawmills must be suffocated because they favor the creation of large sawmills... This is not the best way to understand things for the development of local communities, nor is it the best way to create sustainability for local communities in circumstances, especially in mountainous and mountainous areas, especially in war-related areas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was the meaning of my exposure, not that I would be against someone with two or five or ten thousand head of cattle of any kind. What needs to be clear should be clear whether these concessions and these land are actually obtained for pastures or obtained for some other needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9323	Thank you. Replicated representative Margareta Majeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9324	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, I agree with you in the part where you realized that the state is not a good master and that in the management of state property we must have very controlled processes. What I want to highlight here is my disappointment that there were no controlled processes during the term of office of the former prime minister appointed by the SDP Government and evidence that it was very, very much necessary to work and related to the natural list of assets, but the management of state property is a revision for 2014 which has identified mass irregularities and gave a completely negative opinion on DUDI's operations. To have, on the other hand, Mr. Pejnović's former head of the office who boasted that he had introduced a register of property and the audit had completely denied it where it was said that it was completely unusable to record state property, there was no list of apartments, business premises, money, land you mentioned, military properties. Well, of course, we rightly ask here what was then the task of DUUDI, the leader of the man appointed by the SDP government, and who was ultimately implementing SDP and Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic's policy and how and in what way the rule of law did not react and why the processes were not controlled or, for example, why. in the part where 16 billion kunas went missing from the government's session to DUUDI's accounting items. These are things to talk about and not much can be heard about. And my conclusion is that these divisions that come from the left-hand side of the assembly are just coming in to hide these irregularities, illegalities and can also establish the issued national interests of the Republic of Croatia in the management of state property.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9325	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9326	Dear colleagues, I don't think the state can be a good owner and I just think that the state should leave property management to those who need autonomy and full control over how it will manage in accordance with economic criteria and not party policy. So absolutely as they can be managers, so they can be managers of state-owned companies only assuming they follow the same logic and have the same autonomy. And as for the difference in the assessment provided by the state audit and the reports read by Mr Boban, you know that this has not been contaminated by political debates over the past year of the pre-election campaign and the different positioning of certain people in the institutions of the state administration, I would take the State Audit report as a very relevant place to discuss it, but unfortunately it has been contaminated by the account between the SDP and HDZ. Pejnovic as the SDP and then representative of the state audit as HDZ's man. And I think, as it is worth managing things, that you will agree with me that this is equally true for the attitude of state institutions towards the work of other institutions, that they must not be the means of party political bickering, at any cost. And now allow me just the last word, I think it would be best if DUUDI himself were to review all those cases which, on different grounds, are suspicious or by different grounds should be subject to review and that is possible only if DUUDI initiates the procedure to see what happens to the property that is given to the use of others and not the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9327	Thank you. Next came the replica by the distinguished representative Josip Križanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9328	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Pupovac, I agree with you on the absurdity of the priority concession granted by the previous Government and related to the allocation of land in Lika. In fact, we have a case where in the intensive pig production that we know is almost an industry of production assigned over a thousand acres of land in Lica to the debris. We know it's an impossible mission, that pigs don't feed on junk, but only to satisfy form. I would ask you if you do not think that even more absurd than that, the ban on the sale of agricultural land is a law passed by the past government just at the time of the moratorium selling foreigners, whether it is in an unequal position that our domestic agricultural producers are placed in because when the moratorium will end after 4.5 years whether it will be the same foreign match and ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9329	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9330	I appreciate your line, and I'll only add the following. We appeal to the demographic desolation of the great works of the Republic of Croatia, which unfortunately takes place before our eyes. And as much as we're not going to have a sensitivity to how to promote municipal, local, economic activity, especially in the area of agriculture, we're not going to stop it. And in my opinion, there should be no difference between us, no matter which political party we belong to. We're talking about having an extra option, I'm sure we do. But if this keeps up, we'll have more and more of them because they'll be unsustainable. The state will not be able to give and those in its own area will not have any relevant economic activities, nor will they have income, as income will remain where a company is registered.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9331	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9332	Thank you very much. Comrade Pupovac, I've come forward for your statement on the land books. So it is obvious that at the moment that DUUDI published on its website a list of properties in Croatia, no one in principle wanted to accept the fact although we spoke in the High House about that it was practically just something that was recorded there in the land books a lot of this property was not even registered to the state at all, it was not introduced. So at this point, only 20% of real estate owners in the Republic of Croatia are therefore real estate land, construction legal entities, so the natural and legal persons of the state are registered through the OIB, so they stayed like this. Also, everything that's been taken away from 45 here is never practically except for the key stuff is not registered, it's not registered to the state and you don't have a 1/1 situation that's very difficult to talk about investment. The second thing here today is a lot of talk about agricultural land, DUUDI has nothing to do with agricultural land, it's in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture. And that's certainly the topic that we should talk about one day in this High House. But if we're going to attract investors, if we're going to sell property, then we're going to have to have settled land books first. However, this honor and the things that have not been done within the Ministry of Justice has not been spoken of since the creation of the Croatian state to this day. And that's the key to everything. And when I speak on behalf of the club then I will look more at the property that is formally under the Croatian Army and has never been carried out in land books. So land books say one thing, the real state is another, and then when investors come to you, then you have problems because when they ask for a building permit or something, that's why the law has been changed in principle... on land that isn't yours. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9333	Thank you. Replica's response, the esteemed representative, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9334	Dear fellow Shucker. I well remember your replicas and your discussions about the DUUDI report over the past few years and I have explicitly appreciated your contributions in this regard, during these discussions as well as these now. So it's exactly like you said the register isn't complete and it needs to be completed. It is true that the register made does not reflect the true state and that the true state will be presented only when we have real insight into the state of the land books, although the state of the land books is far from arranged. What we just want to warn you is that the situation in land books will not be arranged unless the way the land books are arranged is valid. In other words, if we have some condition in the catastro and some other state in the land books, it is very important to implement it, not to do it by administrative measure and automation, and to mention the general state property or national property or the general people's property or social property everywhere, that the state says it's ours. It doesn't have to be ours, it can be private. And in many cases, it is private. We just want it to be so that the state doesn't do the wrong picture and at the same time produces injustice and makes tomorrow's expenses for it. As far as the process is concerned he is of vital interest to the Republic of Croatia, the register is only the first step even as incomplete, the real steps come with what you have said, with the handling of land books and we will certainly be ready to contribute to the settlement of land books but we need to find a way that will not produce misunderstandings and possible injustices.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9335	Thank you. The next one appeared on behalf of the HRID Club and the distinguished representative Irena Petrijevcanin Vuskanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9336	Thank you, Vice President. Dear rapporteur, respected colleagues and colleagues. Although this is a report on the implementation of the plan for the past year, this is, of course, also an opportunity to talk about the problems of previous years without saying from the past decades but about some future dilemmas. I am encouraged by this report to have a comprehensive debate on this important subject and whenever the management of state assets or privatisations is mentioned, whether past or future. It associates me with those perhaps younger generations of more famous lyrics at least that we're all from Germany, at least that we're all from Germany who sings the famous Osijek rapper of Kanji and more than a proper name. If in Croatian politicians the character of German, then perhaps corrupt management would be an exception, not a rule, and we wouldn't be where we are today. But since a lot of things went wrong for so-called. The Croatian model which we least see has been used by Croatian citizens and I sincerely hope that Croatian politics learns from its mistakes. And if it wasn't for all these mistakes, we wouldn't be having the kind of discussion we're having today. We have already heard here that the Croatian state has a stake in many companies, in some hundred percent stakes, in some minority ones. There's everything from the veterinary stations to the railroad. With us, the state's ownership portfolio in various companies is estimated at 27 billion euros, and that's about 60% of GDP, and state stakes in companies where the state doesn't have a majority share of Podravka, Končar, Telekom is still worth more than a billion kuna. And what's the rule? What was the rule so far? So where the state is the majority owner as in the Croatian highways and Croatian railways there are the biggest losses and there is the worst business. We have heard from previous, in previous discussions from corruption to setting up jobs to profiting political parties who have placed their staff and various other stakeholders, and management of these companies so-called. Managers mentioned also in a previous debate that ensuing tens and hundreds of millions of kuna losses. Well, for me and every normal man, it's the manager who raises the business, who raises the quality of management, not the one who does the job of pulling money under quotes. And who bears the greatest responsibility? Well, the greatest responsibility lies with the previous authorities. Here's an example of the road and the railroad. They're in the financial glare today. So let's ask ourselves whose mandates are which state-owned company went down and how did it sink, by what model? Some may think that Croatian citizens have collective memory loss, not to mention what was sold and not paid, all those controversial conversions and privatisations, and not to go back too much. What I would like to commend today is that we are now back in the present time, and in the future it is this register of state property that we have already heard about here, but it is still far from ideal. Everything that goes in terms of introducing order is good and at least that's more. I commend the information, I commend the pooling of data that is far from ideal, I commend the tendency to transparency, but it's just aspirations. Reading this report, there are several sentences that more transparency is needed when selecting members of the supervisory boards and administrations. Well, I totally agree. But what's that sentence worth when it wasn't in practice so far? And we can ask for future how does this government plan to choose the leading people of state-owned enterprises? Headhunters are mentioned, of course, who are not cheap, so now they are arguing over the model of a public tender, and we can assume in advance that this will probably be settled as before. And this report is not controversial, it's okay. However, the subject of this report is disputed. Before any sale, it is necessary to answer clearly what is sold and what is not sold. We still do not have a clear vision and mission, but not through the media and through Facebook, but rather a clear mission and vision of the government. Selling a profitable company for the price of her one-year or not saying quarterly profits is unacceptable. And to be clear, I'm not in favour of social governance, but I'm not even for sale after the aftermath that fire departments would take care of a hole in the budget, and that kind of situation has already been thanked to God and too much. And indeed, we have two camps in public today and we keep listening to these two camps. And we keep listening to these two camps. They're one of them for the bigger they sell, and the other one's against the sale. And now the question is what is fundamental to how much the state needs to own and what is being disputed and economists about it. And what kind of consensus has been reached with us about natural resources and infrastructure, and on the other hand, supporters of sales cite as counter arguments a liberal practice of more comprehensive privatisation, claiming that the state is the worst owner. And I would agree with this claim, but only when it comes to our country. Because those who cheer for wider privatisation should specify exactly what European countries have kept in their possession, in public ownership, and in what model. And the correct answer is many countries have kept a lot of property in many sectors. And then, judging by that, we can't easily say that the state is the worst boss everywhere. Maybe the state is the worst boss in our country, but not the state. So there's quite an example where the government managed well. And since I started at the beginning with at least that we're all from Germany, I'd continue with Germany now, so let's just say, I'd like to list the indicative outlines of German state-owned property in different sectors of the economy and public activities, but that kind of flashes one review. According to German railways and German telecommunications, the country's participation policy on the market is best seen, but quality policy. And now someone's gonna tell Deutsche the calf is privatized. Well, it's privatized but the largest owner remains a German state with a third of the shares. And this company makes a huge contribution to the German state budget. And when we look at only a list of German railways around the world, their seats we can see from that how much privatisation of their infrastructure has lost some other countries, let's say the UK. Public institutions and corporations, and limited liability companies, are all part of the mixed ownership of the state and units of local administration in Germany. And all right, there's no loss. Not to mention the banking sector, but I have to mention it. Again, the example of Germany, we do not need to go too far. The German state oversees and supports a strong unity between a stable government policy and the private interests of a bank under Deutsche Bank. And the shares are in free circulation, no one slows it down, but they stay within the German border. And now the opponents will say so we cannot compare Croatia and Germany. But the answer is simple we could despite all that there was no syndrome of Croatian corrupt management and Croatian corrupt privatisation. And now to return to the real estate here have already been mentioned several times. We get some cca 45 million kuna from real estate today, so rent. And the quality management of state-owned real estate alone could double the state's income because these properties are many in attractive locations. And you can also sell those abandoned and untapped properties. There are primarily military complexes. But yet these military complexes, of course, don't have solved land books, so maintaining them is the same item. And now we're going back to the taste of trouble. So it's not a sales problem, the problem is selling below the price. And whether it's real estate, whether it's companies. And I'll repeat I'm not against selling certain assets or real estate but I'm asking if it's necessary to go now and what is the methodology by which it's going to be sold. For example, let it be. In these abandoned military complexes which are not introduced into land books, the right to build and to secure jobs, the area should be developed, so that the total income and the state will collect its share. But like I said again, there's a problem. And there's a lot of examples, we can read in the papers, from Pula to Golog Island, etc. Only 5 out of 330 military properties were in pure possession, spatial plans were unsettled, in some land books, not to say most, not arranged. No concessions for maritime and cultural well-being are harmonised. In some areas, properties are burdened with blombs, vomitings, etc., etc. And there's also one absurdity which is that the state clashes with local self-government. Somewhere even the municipalities and the city crash together. For example, there are other examples of Google Island. And now there's an awful lot of examples that show this, we don't have time, but it turns out we're alone, the state is a stepmother to ourselves. And then somebody say we can't compare to someone and take over some models. So I'd say where lucky we were 20 years ago comparing ourselves with someone and having a clear vision and a mission to work, how to manage state property. There wouldn't be half of these problems today. And in the end, I don't say it again, but one question for all of us and the public, if some claim that the government can't manage state-owned companies in quality quality and should sell them, then how can we expect that same government to manage the state in a good way? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9337	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9338	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Irena, you're saying this report isn't disputed. I'd say it's all disputed no matter how extensive and how much data there is in it. The data are insufficient and guilty, given that the State Audit report clearly stated what was missing in operation, work, records, it is clear that this report cannot be accepted or considered relevant. It's written in order to cloud the matter and it's reluctant to potentially corrupt and sell into incriminating. This does not appear in the report, but this is clearly defined in the unfavourable report of the State Audit. Privatisation of Croatia's insurance is one of the biggest affairs silent and unspeakable. It wasn't written in this report as it was done. What about the recapitalisation? How did the money flow? What decisions have been made? It's all missing in this report. There are a number of things that the State Audit has listed as missing in the past. We believe and hope that you will not support this report as well as that the new DUUDI administration will take action to correct everything that has been done badly in the past.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9339	Thank you. Replica reply, the distinguished representative of Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9340	I said when I told the esteemed representative that the report was not disputed, I said in the sense that the information that was listed was not disputed. That's the issue this report is about. And on your part, it would be hypocritical to talk at all about state property management because you're sitting in a party that managed state property in a certain way that I said and what model it is. And now to single out the case of Croatia's insurance as a sign that your former government has dealt with and to say that it is a responsibility of the former government and not to mention all those former before the cases it has dealt with when your party was in power it is truly hypocritical. So neither am I... Let me finish my line, don't fall into my words. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please secure order in the assembly room.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9341	I agree. Let's not get into words.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9342	So I personally did not participate in any privatisation of my own party.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9343	Thank you. Replica, Honorary Representative Radimir Cacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9344	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, this is one of the most important topics Croatia has ahead of it. Unfortunately, the last government said I would do one determined nothing, and it's probably one of the greatest damages she could ever do. That was embarrassing and below every level, which of course doesn't mean it couldn't have been worse. There were governments who were successful in stealing that is probably even worse than that, right? However, I expect that a government will happen that recognises the necessity to finally use Croatian property for the benefit of Croatian citizens. That should at least be defined when we talk about companies that we don't want to sell, that doesn't mean we don't need to determine the value of that property, that we don't need to do this analysis about which there's been a lot of shit now. So, what we don't want, I think we can reach a consensus on that. These must be natural resources and natural monopolies. What do we want and what else is there to discuss? For example, Turkey has a great interest in ACs. Great, my view is that at least you should thank yourself on that interest not only them, but that doesn't mean, my position that I'm right, it doesn't mean that it's not a good idea for, say, 10 or 15 years of certain funds to be entrusted to management. I mean there are things we can discuss, there are things like Croatian waters and some other things that we can't monopolize, and PLINCRO, ANAF etc. Let's set a strategy. Secondly, the best she had of HDZ's economic base was the Austrian state holding as a way of managing. I expect, I speak modelly, I expect it to happen. There's gonna be another replica, so I'm gonna keep going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9345	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Irena Petrijevcanin-Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9346	I'm glad you mentioned that what's a key problem is that we don't have, that this government has no mission and no vision of governance. And this report has just moved me to think and to debate that we have a report, we'll have a year, we'll have a quarter and since all the reports are coming and we have a strategy, we have a law, but we still don't know the answers to the most important questions, we still don't have a model of good ones that we can take over, there's something that can be heritage and there's something that's applicable. Why didn't we apply, why? Well, because it's always been a private interest above the public. And unfortunately, Croatian citizens have never wondered if we should privatise the telecoms, should we give the infrastructure to the foreigners? Here's Deutsche Telekom making a nice living. I don't mind, but did we have to give all the infrastructure? Did anyone then ask Croatian citizens, so if no one asked Croatian builders, let them ask them in the future. Let's correct those mistakes that are made correct. That's the point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9347	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9348	Dear colleagues of Petrijevčanin, I liked your presentation for looking at this very complex problem of governance of state property from a wider angle and stating a positive example of Germany that takes good care of its property of the people, the German people, the German state. It does this in banks, telecoms, so this really is a great example when you said when you took over the telecom says privatisation, and actually above it is one third of the German state, and there's a lot that's been done here, some of the citizens were robbed when the infrastructure of that was taken over. However, the experience of the Nordic countries, the Scandinavian countries, says we need a new public sector economy, governance, new public sector management. With us, do you agree to this finding that we are dominated by political managers and where the leading parties are now mutually changing to power and means so full of furniture, i.e. to fill public companies, state-owned and all with the primary goal of implementing some of their plans without seeing the general public interest. Now, I'm asking you what you think about these regulations right now, especially what we know before we know that no one can, we practically have problems hiring new people in public enterprises, and now this is a government regulation that is being prepared, is a regulation or is it a decision that people can run for office that has 5 and 10 years of experience in that company. Does this mean, in your opinion, retaining a channel of corruption, inability to enter capable people from competitions, so maintaining a structure that she used to do what she did and now bringing state firms potentially into an even more difficult position? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9349	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Irena Petrijevcanin-Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9350	Here's exactly what you said about being a respected colleague of the new management. They've been talking about the new management of the Scandinavian country since the '80s. The new management management management is based on openness and transparency of management. And openness and transparency isn't putting a manager from one firm into another after he destroyed, ruined and drawn money for certain lobbys and certain party structures. It's not management. For me, the manager told me the one who picked up the company when it was lost. Do we have such managers? Well, I'm sure we do. Will such a manager go to the state administration, to the state firm? Well, maybe it's some kind of a career stain because you know who goes to state firms. Unfortunately, it's our management model. And I've been following this literature myself ever since that Scandinavian model of new management started with Denmark, and I'm very glad that you mentioned it, because that openness and transparency was when it comes to public procurement, whenever it comes to public resources, about sales, about rent, it's always necessary. So this octopus, to say so, to cut these legs off, cut them off, it takes a lot more than this debate, there needs to be some changes to a few laws, but first of all it needs a clear and determined will of the government. When the will of power is clear and determined, then things will be going in the direction that some of us want.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9351	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, the next is the distinguished representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9352	Thank you, Vice President, Director of the State Office, colleagues and colleagues. The key measures for managing and making available state assets should refer to a better definition of ownership policy in strategic companies, financial restructuring of companies in difficulty, re-evaluation of strategic assets, reduction of government portfolios, apartments, business premises and land, redefining the concept and structure of comprehensive asset records. These are the measures set out in both the Law and the State Property Management Strategy. Since 2013, the adoption of the Law on management and availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia has started more systematically and transparently to manage and dispose of state assets. The Croatian Parliament adopted an initial register of assets and a strategy for the management and availability of state assets for the period 2013/2017. The law lays down the obligation to adopt the Annual Property Management Plan and to submit a report to the Croatian Assembly on the implementation of this plan. The strategy established that the annual plan is adopted by the Government and sets out the short-term objectives, exceptional, implementing measures and guidelines for the management of individual forms of assets. The strategic companies identified by the specific decision have the obligations to draw up medium-term business plans and this should now be a business plan, medium-term business plan 2017/20. And we expect in the next report that we will get such information. This second report we are discussing includes data on 31.12.2015. The report follows 15 areas of the annual management plan, it is very extensive, and according to our Rules of Procedure, we should have received a part of this report, giving some guidance for further upgrading of the national property register and on the management and availability of state assets. The activities of the State Property Management Office within the European Semester and the excessive deficit process in terms of cooperation on the development of the National Reform Programme are also visible. The report lists a number of legal and sublegal acts proposed by the State Office to the Government or adopted on the basis of legal powers. The activities of the strategic property management committees, i.e. the availability of real estate and the CERP Governance Council in 2015. The important role of the State Office is to review the criteria for listing or deleting from the list of individual companies of strategic and special interest for the Republic of Croatia. The Decision on the establishment of a list of companies and other legal persons of strategic and special interest for the Republic of Croatia in 2015 listed 56 entities in which the Republic of Croatia, apart from economic performance and strategic objectives, relates to the legal and effective achievement of the transferred public powers, to safety, health insurance, important infrastructure, uninterrupted supply of population and economy, insurance of economic services in the interests of citizens and state. The decision established 22 companies and 6 legal persons of strategic interest and 24 companies in which the Republic of Croatia has a majority stake and 4 companies in which there are less than 50% shares and those listed on the capital market. In the management of state assets, corporate governance plays an important role, so the report lists operational corporate management measures which are important for the success of the business of these companies. This certainly affected business since these companies increased profitability in 2015, there was a decrease in costs and gross profits increased by more than 1 billion kuna. The report contains information on the implementation of the restructuring involving 21 companies and during this procedure, pre-banking agreements and bankruptcys in 16 companies were carried out. In the financial indicators listed in the report, most of which refer to the CERP in terms of certain claims and litigation, significant problems are seen because most of them will not be able to be charged, apply and most of it seems to me to be the consequences of the conversion and privatisation of the 1990s. This part of the management of state assets has also been subject to a state audit office which carried out the audit in 2014. However, the report also lists the measures and activities to be taken on the basis of the recommendations and measures of the State Audit Office but will not be removed in a short time. The report shows that a significant job follows an upgrade of the register of state property that has only been working for the past few years to make it transparent, comprehensive and accessible to the public because citizens have the right to see how it is managed and available. This job is large, depending on other data-providing entities, land-book arrangements and the like, so the government has to persist and ensure the conditions for the job to be completed as soon as possible. These days, the government has launched the privatisation of certain companies primarily from the tourism portfolio, but it is still suspected that it will try to privatise both part of the portfolio of strategic and special interest, as in the State budget, significant privatisation revenues are planned through the financing account, and the Prime Minister also announces a reduction of the public debt to the revenues from privatisation or from the sale of assets. That this is the case, according to the fact that the State Office has announced a tender for the services of an adviser for the initial and independent evaluation of the portfolio of state-owned companies prior to the privatisation decision. The list includes 54 companies including Croatian roads, Croatian highways, Croatian electricity industry, part of Croatian railways, ACI, Croatian post office, Croatian forest etc. which have been established strategically or of particular interest in the 2015 Decision. The tender is completed on 3 May and an assessment is required for sale with or without restructuring or retaining state property. We warn that these companies cannot be privatised without amending the strategy or decision, and for some of them it is necessary to pass a special law in accordance with the law on the conversion and privatisation of the 1990s when they were excluded from the conversion process. That's when they were, for example. both Croatian Telecom and Croatia and INA, which were privatised by a special law passed by the Croatian Parliament, Croatia's electricity industry, meanwhile, the law was put out of force. Such intentions cannot be a secret, especially not a business secret when it wants to show the Prime Minister on what will be privatised in 2016? The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in Article 53 defines among other natural and cultural goods that forests, water and land are of interest to the Republic of Croatia and have its special protection. The Constitution further lays down that the law lays down the way in which goods of interest to the Republic of Croatia can be used and exploited by both the rightholders and the owners. And our laws in these cases do not foresee the process of selling or privatising. We are in the SDP for privatisation if this means putting into service certain properties or minority packages in companies through analysis of the business of strategic societies primarily through privatisation should be sought out by a strategic partner who will develop society and provide it with a wider market. Forests, water and agricultural land on our land should not be privatized by us because it is a national treasure belonging to the people. Writing the Constitution in 1991, the founding fathers knew what was a national treasure to protect against private greed. The SDP Club will accept this report for 2015.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9353	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Radimir Cacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9354	Thank you very much. I once again warn of the fact that we are the fifth country in Europe at the value of state property, 31.4 billion euros is worth. It's something we finally gave birth to, the truth and in the Assembly, it's that register and it's like that according to EUROSTAT. At the same time, we are the last according to ILU on the contribution we have from this property so below 1% which of course serves us with shame and shows that we do not know how to dispose of our own wealth. Of course it needs to be changed. That can't be the subject at all. Once again, when we talk about companies, let's depoliticalize them, of course it's not always the country's worse owner than privates, but it's always worse if it's politicized. So, the Austrian model, I speak as one of the possibilities. When we talk about this second piece of property, then at the very least we apply the models that many European countries have already made, especially the transition or entrusted to professional funds, of course, to choose the highest quality bidder to manage and make out of it a contribution to the growth of the economy and the strength of the state or at least one part to single out and make a pilot project. Whatever we do out of these 31.4 billion to single out 2, 3, 4 billion, and that part that's in the portfolio of professional managers as a fund we use as an investment catalyst that I've talked about a lot of times and especially when it comes to the CNB, we're going to ensure the flow of HNB plasma for what Mr. Lovrinović has been talking about here very often, and in this sense, he has the right to simply at this point not to have that flow, we use people's property. Let's start using it. The last government didn't do anything, I'm against the report, and I won't mention those before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9355	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9356	When we talk about state property management, we have to start from the same positions as when private property is managed. That's my attitude, and that's where I think we don't have any objections. You've actually suggested more in your replica than you've proposed to me. I am starting to commit property, so it obliges the state to manage it, that it must manage the property, that it brings benefits, that it brings profits, that not only through this management we employ people, but that the overall society also has financial benefits, especially in the situation in which the Croatian budget is. One-time sale of certain assets does not actually solve the problem if it is not in office after it has been sold. Thus, anyone who wants to do long - term business knows how he will set up management, what tasks he will give him, and how he will control it. And it has to work and the state, it has to do politics regardless of which party currently manages the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9357	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9358	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleague Zgrebec. In your presentation, you mentioned that the Republic of Croatia has a State Property Management Strategy, which includes European guidelines, a European Charter on State Property Management, which says that this must be a comprehensive record, that the assets must be managed effectively and that concrete decisions must be made quickly on the management of this property in order to put it into function of economic growth and development and public functions. The situation on the ground is completely different, so I'm asking you how it's possible that then the audit will determine that not all assets are listed. Secondly, that a large part of this property has not been put into service, and we have a large number of requests from local and regional self-government units that required the State Agency for State Property Management to give them the right to use or to own certain properties for economic development, for public institutions and for two, three years did not receive an answer. I think it's inadmissible and it has to be dealt with immediately. Here is an example of a concrete economic zone in Novi Gradiška that is looking for a space for enlargement because there are interested investors, there is no military solution in Novi Gradiška and other military for public needs not solved. I think it is inadmissible and that it is not in line with what the strategy says must make quick and concrete decisions with a view to creating new values, not that this property is a cost and burden to society and the state. And there is still a need to stress great care for its own property, as a large part of these facilities have been left unsupervised and destroyed and their value is questionable. And I don't think we can accept a report like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9359	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9360	Well, all I can say is that I agree with you, that you're not in charge, and that you don't have good state property. But only in 2013 did we pass the Law on governance and availability of state assets, only then did we begin to settle state assets. So you know the Privatisation Fund hasn't had a monitoring board in eight years? That we didn't even know in the Privatisation Fund how many states in certain companies that were converted and privatised have shares? And now we're talking about the last three years of what's been done or what hasn't been done. There's always more and more to be done, and we can't be satisfied with what we've got. And this part of what you say about local communities, sometimes it's okay, but we have a lot of entrepreneurship and economic zones staring blanks, where there's a lot of money being spent and there's a lot of crack and weed growing.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9361	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Margareta Majeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9362	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree with you, in part of your presentation, that the audit measures will not be removed within a short period of time, given that the 2014 audit for DUDI's operations gave a negative opinion and established mass irregularities both in the list of assets, in the avoidance of public procurement, in the excessive use of intellectual services funds. Surely such illegal, non-transparent and irregular work cannot be changed within a month, two, and therefore it will be an extremely large responsibility for the new administration, for people who will need to correct all irregularities that occurred in the last term of the former Head of State Property Management. And one of these data on one irresponsibility of state property management also shows that at the outset there were about 140 employees who had DUDI, and the latest data somewhere final when the former head of the office went away that number of employees had increased, so for all three institutions to 260. It's nothing more than infatuating parties, so people who were supposed to find their jobs somewhere. And that reminds me very much of the practice from the city of Zagreb, in Zagreb Holding when it was headed, so the leading person of Zagreb Holding was a representative, so a member of the SDP, where in the Zagreb Holding Directorate the moment he came to the head there were 40 employees And within a year, that number went up to a little less than 200. [[Intruder Tepesh: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9363	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9364	My colleagues, if I hate anything, then I hate this kind of debate. When my opponent party was in power, it was mine, so everything's gonna be fine. And then in four years, it changes, and then we talk the other way around. I mean, I want every happiness to the new principal to do as much as possible, but he won't be able to remove what the audit has determined. For 24 years, we haven't done anything about the list of assets. I just told my colleagues we didn't even know in the societies that were through privatisation and conversion we knew exactly what the percentage of state property was, so we didn't record it in the then Privatisation Fund. And now you think that from 2013 to 2014 when it was audited that what was not done for 24 years could have been solved and that this is now a huge irregularity. So I'll tell you the State Audit Office sometimes looks through your fingers and you get a conditional opinion when there might be an unfavourable opinion. I do not care what opinion it is, I am interested in how we will remove the fact that the State Audit Office no longer has any objections, that we have registered property and that we manage it in such a way that it is for the benefit of Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9365	Thank you. The following came to light in the debate on behalf of the Croatian Labour Representatives' Club, distinguished representative Nancy Tyreli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9366	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. If something grieves and lets us know that we're not going to move away from the beginning, these are exactly the kind of debates where when we're in power we know best but we're not doing anything but the only thing we're doing is criticizing those who were in the last term. Today we have been listening here on this side of the assembly, so of the ruling, there has been no controlled process of managing the state property of the former government, harmful and irresponsiblely managed by state property. I am now asking a very simple question whether we are the owners of this state property in 2011, 2010, 2005, 2002, which? In 2010, we passed the Law on the Management of State Property, which began to apply from 1.01/11, and with its application, the Law on Privatisation, the Law on the Conversion of Social Enterprises and the Law on the Croatian Privatisation Fund ceased to apply. They've all sold, privatized and converted state property into private property before, and today we're asking here if anyone in the last term did or didn't well build an integrated system of state property management? And we forgot to ask the question by law which we forbade those who managed state property in privatisation and conversion to write the same state property its value, put it in a register or some kind of balance sheet, and to manage it responsibly. State property management documents are a strategy, management plan and a report on the implementation of the management plan. We began to apply the law on 1 January 2011 but it did not consider it necessary for the government to respect this same law and to adopt a State Property Management Strategy but rather adopted the 2013 strategy for the period 2013-2014. Today, we hear here in replicas that there is no State Property Management Plan for 2016. Who brings the management plan? Well, the government. Do we have a government at this point or do we not have a government? Why did the Government not respect the Law on governance and availability of state assets and why did it not adopt the same property management plan for 2016? The former government respected the deadlines, DUUDI made a State Property Management Plan for 2016. That plan was supposed to, so who was doing the plan that's on the website? Then who did this plan? Why didn't the Government adopt a 2016 plan? What does she decide what she will do and how she will sell out? And now we call it no plan. We don't have it, but we don't call those who were supposed to do this plan and who are saying what we're going to do and how we're going to sell out. The plan is adopted on the basis of the strategy, our strategy is valid and valid until 2017, and we have until 2017 to respect this strategy because it was adopted in the Croatian Parliament. The other thing that's been going through all this time is the revision. The audit also adopted a conditional opinion on the operations of the former Privatisation Fund in 2010. No one's talking about it. It's been a while, so we're going to talk about the 2014 review. We can and we should, we should be responsible for what we don't do well. But it's not good to call those who were yesterday and forget everything that happened the other day and all these years back and it's about responsible management of state property. Today in the debates, we listen to rhetoric that we can allow some who wore the staff to manage and be members of the management of companies owned by the Republic of Croatia. But we don't ask what's the matter with those brigades who created this state-owned property on the job, so they sold it into invaluable property or for their own personal interests. That's not what we're talking about. And what's the problem with someone wearing a staff if he's a good manager and he's good at quality and good at managing companies? I'll only mention two cases of two companies. MIT and TESSU Oilman in one company are setting up for the president of the management of a man who, the first thing he does, asks the supervisory board to increase his benefits, the second president of the administration and the second administration successfully realises the debts and opens new markets, new products and good business. It is owned by both state companies, i.e. in a commercial company. What's important to us, let's stop asking questions about who's from where, who's red, who's blue and start answering for what we're doing. Let's call people responsible and their results, not where they came from. As long as we have such rhetoric, we cannot talk about that state-owned companies or companies will do well and that Croatian citizens as owners of that property will benefit. When we talk about what was not in the previous government, a privatisation fund was also required under the law to submit reports to the Croatian Parliament. Every year, such a report as we have today since DUDI should be in the Croatian Parliament of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. Thirteen years, for 13 years, the Croatian Privatisation Fund has not submitted a report in this House on what it was and how it was managed by the state property. And about that, no one was asking what was wrong with the property, and now suddenly since 2013, we've been bringing a strategy. We are bringing the first management plan to the state property for 2014. Now we're in 2016 and we spit on everything that's been done in these two years because it didn't work out. Now we mention how Croatia is privatised? But nobody said what we did with the infrastructure we gave Deutsche Telecom, who gave it to, in what way? A colleague used to say that citizens should be asked, citizens were asked, and citizens said their own, but the government did not listen to them, which means that at that moment, the least important thing was what the value of the property was and what citizens would gain by selling and such privatisation. And we got higher prices of phone services that we pay despite citizens investing their money in the infrastructure we put invaluable. And so we pass our mandates, and so we pass years and nothing new changes, but from mandate to mandate we invoke the one who was in the previous term and the state property is still not re-valorized in the way that should be re-valorized. We are saying that we will sell companies and put them on the market, which is not bad, but what saddens me when we talk about the reorganisation of companies owned by the Republic of Croatia in this report everywhere I read the rationalisation of employees, severances, retirement, etc. It doesn't say anywhere that we're going to be opening new jobs in these companies. As long as we do not know the value of our companies and what prosperity these companies in the market have, which is our priority in these companies, whether the company's priority is sold to us once, shut down the budget holes, and say that we were a successful and high-quality government that reduced GDP or that our priority is to make a business plan for these companies, put in these companies managers who will be primarily responsible and who will be responsible for the results that must achieve both the objective and priority of all the priorities of these companies to make maximum use of so that we can hire as many people as possible. Whether the Podravka in which Croatia has 25% seems to me to be a priority for us to make profits year after year, that one policy of the Podravka is changing in that part that we take from domestic farmers the repro material that we need for this product that Podravka does or is our priority that we have only 25% and we will sell such a company. And there's a lot of these companies in this report, and I won't mention them anymore because they mentioned them before me. So when we say that the state is a bad master, it's not a bad master, but it's us who let people who are presidents of the administration not be responsible for the damage that they've done in these companies, then we're all responsible together and the most responsible are those who put those people in these companies. As long as we don't have personal responsibilities by name and last name, as long as we're hiding behind policies on whether the left, whether the right, whether the middle, whether or not any other policy and saying that we should have quality management, that we should have a policy that will generate profits and ensure jobs and in such discussions and in such rhetoric we cannot expect each other in the past term to be raised from the 1% that we are successful in managing state companies. From the government, I think that every citizen of the Republic of Croatia, too, requires the following: how much does the Government want to sell out state property and obviously wants to, then the Government must clearly and transparently and we read in the report that transparency is the basis of state property management to say which companies are and how does the government think to privatise them or sell them? How many jobs are we going to lose at this point because the government's responsibility when it sells companies is in how many workers are going to lose their jobs. Because no one's going to buy a company without rationalizing the workforce. And it's society's responsibility. The large quantity of sales does not always mean the great quantity of good sales of companies. Says the word "cun" to "cun" to "cuckoo." If we have a small percentage of ownership somewhere in a company, but it is a company that is healthy, it has an open market, it has products, it is an exporter, it works, which is why Croatia as a state or DUDI or CERP would not be able to manage and dispose of the property that this company is dealing with. What's our problem? We have employees in DUUDI who get a regular monthly salary, we have employees in agencies who get paid regularly every month but we call out competitions for external associates that will work out a plan and analysis of how to deal with companies. What about these managers who have management contracts and what about their responsibility in these same companies that create loss and for which apparently no one calls them? And as long as we discuss it this way in every subsequent report, the results will be the same and we will not move from a dead spot because obviously our goal is not to be good masters but to be good critics.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9367	Thank you. Replica's distinguished representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9368	My colleagues, Nancy Tyrelli, you are almost exactly the same as Mrs. Zgrebec, spoke and colored your entire debate very discreetly, objectively how to protect state, national interests and how to get rid of some companies for which it is necessary and which are only a burden to the state. And you rightly criticize this way that comes from the other side of the assembly. So the question arises and you ask him, when did we become the owners of that property? Did we become the owners of state property in 2011? However, it is right that those who say that it may have been easier for us because, during their reign, they were the first ten-year-olds, a lot of things that were social, so the state suddenly went overnight without being registered in any register, state-owned, overnight, private. Just a note to some who have no idea or do not want to remember because they believe it was so long ago that it did not even happen when, for example, state dwellings that serve the needs of officials and parliamentarians, some MPs bought it for the bagatel. It's just one example. And as for the objections coming from the other side of the higher and higher Telekom, it should be noted and stressed and reminded that this contract was voted here for by the then majority and that looking for Deutsche Telekom that contract was secret unlike when we talked about the sale of INA and decided on 25% plus 1 share where the Croatian Parliament discussed it here. There are no small differences, these are differences from those who don't call themselves, they don't have in their programs, but in action they show themselves patriotic, unlike those who only have it in their title.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9369	Thank you. The responsible replica of the distinguished representative, Nancy Tyrelli. I'd like to ask my colleagues and colleagues in the benches, and I'd like to ask you not to throw your honourable MPs in the benches. Dear representative Nancy Tyrelli, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9370	Thank you, Vice President. I thank my colleagues, Antičević-Marinović, on the replica. We agree, so we agree on a lot of things and I think that anyone who thinks logically, who thinks well agrees with this rhetoric because we really have nothing to do with calling each other who did good or bad. What's certainly not good is that people have courage and had to call someone for something and forget that they've done much bigger and much more harmful things before. It's something that doesn't lead to good, and it's something that throws us even more into the fungi and makes us even more backward. And I also agree with you when you say, when you mention the register. No one has ever defended anyone from registering state property and managing the state property rationally and responsibly. We don't even need a register. Once the registers didn't exist, but we had balance sheets, we had someone who owed, who looked for, who worked on the cards, and at all times they knew what they had and what their property was. Unfortunately, the state didn't do it, you know why it didn't work, the reason it existed. And one of the main reasons you mentioned is because state or social property was privatized, sold out, sold out, and then it was better not to have any register than to leave any trace in any register.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9371	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9372	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'd like to get involved in the debate because it bothers me that all the MPs who have spoken the same terms so far put into different content, so it's very difficult to communicate at all. So according to the Constitution, we only have one ownership of the concept of conversion and privatisation, i.e. the conversion from social to state property is over. And now it's been done that this property has content and everyone knows that so now colleague Nancy Tyrelli has told her colleague Ingrid that the property of economists leads as an asset and a passive, and lawyers as rights and obligations. So the balance that we are talking about and that Croatia's property does not contain Croatia's obligations, there is no debt. And unfortunately, it's property. And now we're talking about selling state property. We're not gonna sell, we're gonna sell the property, we're not gonna sell the property, we're not gonna sell the debt, we're gonna sell the property, we're not gonna sell the property, we're gonna sell the property, we're gonna sell the property, we're gonna sell the property, but we're gonna sell the property, we're gonna sell the property, we're gonna sell the property, we're gonna sell the property, we're gonna sell the property, we're gonna sell the property, we're gonna sell the property, we're gonna sell the property, we're gonna sell the property, we're gonna sell the property, we're gonna sell the property, we're gonna sell the property, we're Well, that's why it's really hard for us to talk. There'll be a consensus. We talk to the same terms but different content. So, colleagues and colleagues, we must have a register of ownership of the Republic of Croatia and we must also have a balance sheet of property. So, both rights and obligations, debts and claims of anything at all, and then we can say that someone will manage the property of the Republic of Croatia. Until then, it's hard because our properties are getting worse on the market that our debts are getting bigger and more unfavourable. We must take care of that, and we are indeed in a very risky situation of selling that property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9373	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9374	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague, Lecko, and you on the line. We agree, and it's one thing that matters. We need to know exactly what we have, how much it's worth, not just in money, what are the costs of this property that we have and what benefit from that property so that property could be effectively used, given that we don't know, that we haven't, that we haven't done it, so in these two years, it's unsertainable to talk about it in this way, what the government is going to sell, how much government is going to income from the state property to justify the government in such a way that it manages state property in a quality way. It's not quality management. It's the ad hoc management to plug up some holes. And once we shut the holes, we didn't do anything because the question is when will that hole leak again?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9375	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9376	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Here's a replica of Mrs. Tyrelli. I think this is one of the most important things Croatia has because we don't know how to manage property. That's what we showed. Our Croatian property carries this country unfortunately only losses and that is something that we, which we must be aware of and what we can and must change. Whether this is the case, we can now take and expand the spectrum of natural resources or about land, buildings, empty buildings, barracks that can be used. What is crucial to say, here I will say is very open to the example of the city of Zagreb. We in the town of Zagreb who is a unit of local self-government, and such examples are everywhere in Croatia we have many unused properties like Zagreb, such as Gredelj, like the Borongaj Compass, such as the Blato Hospital for which the projects were to take place 25 years ago, 10 years ago and the announcements were ahead of each election. Unfortunately, we haven't seen a single project, not one realisation of the project until today. And we expect entrepreneurs, private entrepreneurs, so when it comes to farmers investing in investments, that we in some way stimulate them to invest, and on the other hand, we do not refer ourselves to state monotocity land to run this investment cycle. Therefore, if we ourselves will not put into function the state property, the city property, the property that Croatia has through the fund, through a special form of ownership, through all the models that exist today in the developed world, we will not be able to achieve economic growth and economic development, because simply these assets are too much because it is very much and it absolutely does not make any profit. But we have the ITU at our disposal, so it's an EU fund for integrated and territorial investment. It was just made to encourage that on these integrated territories, integrated land is driven by investment, but this first step must be done by the state or city, units of local self-government. Unfortunately, we don't use that well.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9377	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9378	Thank you, Mr. President. I thank my colleague Bernardic. Yeah, we agree on that, too. But I disagree when you say we don't know how to manage state property. I'd just like to add some of that. We do not know how to manage state assets for the benefit of the state and for the benefit of the state budget but we do know how to manage state assets very well when it comes to personal interests and about individual profits that certain individuals at a certain point in time when they are in the right place and get information at the right time and know very well how to manage this state property and how to use this state property for their own benefit.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9379	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Antun Vidaković.-
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9380	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Tyrelli. In principle, I will agree immediately that it has never been well enough managed but that nothing has happened until 2011, I cannot accept it at all. Right, the state owns everything and businesses and shares and everything and I would limit myself to what's a little closer to me and that's spatial data management. They were specifically in the state agricultural land of different forms of the law treated the state agricultural land from when it was managed by the county, so cities, and again by the state. I am responsibly saying that something would be managed to take the first step, which is inventory according to the law, which could all possibly be agricultural land regardless of the status in the garland. In 2000, the town of Novska made the only quality program in Croatia, so a web application that treated every parcel that could be agricultural regardless of what it says in the grantovnica. Every citizen could see and show his interest in both rent and everything. Not to say that when the local self-government treated the first land, it had to make a plan available for concession, which will be given for sale, which will be for annual enjoyment. It turns out that before 2011, state property was not managed. It has been managed and held accountablely, I repeat this great system that the state is managing its state property is not acceptable. We should change the levels in the way we manage the space, and these are geographically, information systems that need to be done first and foremost in the ministry, and then by the merger that we're going to do when we connect the grantine and the cadastre. That doesn't mean we'll solve anything. It takes both time and people and knowledge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9381	Replica reply, distinguished representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9382	I would like to thank the Vice President and your colleague on the line. I agree with you that the great responsibility in managing units of local, regional self-government is because I think these units are best aware of what they want with what they have in their area and what is very important is what has been adopted in the 2013 Strategy, which is that state property is centralized so that we know what we own, what we have and that the management of this same property is decentralised precisely for this reason of opening and new jobs and projects, which Bernardic said before and everything else in order to develop the economy and local self-government. As far as agricultural land is concerned, DUDI really has nothing to do with agricultural land. So in 2011, we didn't have a lease register, we didn't have a register, we didn't have an exact agricultural land register. So, it's another register along with this on state property that started to be taken seriously so that at one point it could be managed rationally and qualityly by that agricultural land and that agricultural land is indeed obtained by those who are engaged in agriculture, not by those who are at that point similar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9383	Thank you. Replica is a respected representative of Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9384	Thank you very much. Comrade Tyrelli, I cannot find a single word of praise for the management of state property and do not share in periods. But you haven't discussed the 2014 State Property Management Report at all, and there's so much interesting data in there, but you've lectured. And gave lessons to those who gave their opinion. I don't mind your opinions, nor do I think of criticizing you, but you don't want to hear anything. I don't mind what you say, so yes, it was an unfavourable opinion back then and then. Well, yes, it was. But it was conditional, but this is unfavourable. And now, you're calling out why you're talking to this guy, and you're not talking to that guy. Oh, for God's sake! You expect someone to say what you want them to say? The 2014 State Property Management Report is on the agenda. You don't want to hear how concessions for Coopers are given. See what it says in the State Audit report. The company was founded on 20.8.2015. 3 months after the competition was announced and a month and a half before the completion of the competition. The capital of 20,000 kuna. We're not wondering whether or not you're wondering where the money for that kind of concession came from for 99 years? What banks vouched for such a job? What's in the background? To just conclude that some shells are so-called. companies or front companies, and we know what they represent. And as for these communists, I don't know if someone from the cabinets of former Todor, Zivkov, Janos, Kadama, Ceausescu or Honeker would run state property in Bulgaria, Romania, Hungary and Germany at all, would that be theoretically possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9385	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9386	Thank you, Vice President, and your colleague, Maric, for the replica. We're in Croatia, so we're talking about what's going on with us. I have no expectations of what or how anyone will speak. And I'm glad that everyone has their opinions. The only thing I expect is that you don't forget what you've been doing with state property, what you've done with it. That's what I wouldn't like to forget, because the consequences of such management are something we read today in this report. And we could talk a lot more about that report and we could talk about data, but matter is so complex that for 15 minutes we won't talk about the report quality. We'll be able to selectively discuss certain things that concern us about you, Cooper, and me, Brijuni Riviera, etc. And each of us here in this assembly is interested in some company that is in his county, in his town, in his municipality that is sold in the way it is sold and the state property is managed in a way that citizens who live in that space their whole lives and such management have absolutely nothing. And I repeat, the only thing I expect is that we remember a little longer than this four-year term and that's gone by and we don't forget what someone did before in Croatia's history, which is how he managed and then we throw a stone at the other one without any remorse and morals.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9387	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9388	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleague Tyrelli, I have listened well to you in your presentations, and there is a reference to the audit, responsible management. So I'm asking myself why it's serving this revision that supposedly 570 reconnaissances made and 32 just positive. Then we say responsible management of state property. I agree that it should be managed responsibly, but if this government or this government has so far taken 20 years just to pass the State Property Act, then I'm asking myself a question when are we going to start answering for what we've done so far? I wonder how much use, as a businessman, I wonder how much benefit we have from this state property, and how much damage? A moment ago someone said law and obligations, so where are these rights and obligations? Who will be responsible for what a failure has been made, and who will not? If politicians solve the economy then we'll be like this for another 20 years because they'll never know to ask the right question and make the answers to the assets we have. We here can discuss 20 more years of laws, sublaws, and what happens? Nothing! You mentioned the staff, yes, I know some of them are bothering the staff because they're taking you around this country and you can see where we've come from. Brijuni got Sherbedjia for 50 years, under what law and how? And not just that, the mass of other things. So I ask myself how? And what does the people have of all this? How much does that cost the state? We just have the cost. So we need to either sell out, or by law we need to lead, and then we need to have responsibility for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9389	Replica reply, distinguished representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9390	Thank you, Vice President. And a colleague of yours on the line. I agree with you when you talk about the revision when none of it has consequences. I would be most fortunate if you, as part of the ruling, would suggest amendments to the State Audit Act, which would cost what to do with those who mismanage state property. Because you, as an entrepreneur, know very well that you pay for every mistake you make in your supervision and that this mistake of yours costs you. And this is precisely what I said as long as the presidents of the board of directors and boards of directors in companies owned by the Republic of Croatia do not begin to be personally responsible for the way they manage and run these companies will not be removed from the beginning. Because you asked who would answer? And I'm gonna answer you as much as I've done so far because personal responsibilities have nothing to do with anything. And here is just once again an appeal to the amendment of the State Audit Act, in which it will be pointed out how those managers who are not responsible should respond and what. I'll raise my hand to such a law first.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9391	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9392	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterparts Tyrelli, not long ago, we discussed this structure of DUUDI and in setting up the leading man of DUUDI and you and I then in opposition, and we warned at that time that it was too much of a job to be dealt with in one place with by a man with such great powers. That's exactly the report that you've kind of praised says the opposite of what we were saying, turns out it was very good, that it was done well. But I didn't answer your line for it, but you mentioned Podravka. And you mentioned Podravka as a successful company, a company that needs to make a profit. And I have to tell you that Podravka as a company where the state has 25.4% stakes set up as it was in previous times but this time a hard and firm politician at the head of Podravka, a respected SDP member who after coming to Podravka said politics from Podravka must go out. And then it happened next, that's how it went successfully. 1500 street workers or an office or somewhere else, Danica as a slaughterhouse closed, a bakery closed and eventually the impression is that the same manager actually wanted to spend the sale of Podravka, but in this miracle God was prevented by the then Prime Minister, Mr. Milanovic, who injected 100 million kunas of state money in Podravka to preserve those 25% in Podravka. This is the result of the management of Podravka company.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9393	Replica reply, distinguished representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9394	I would like to thank the Vice President and your colleague Hrg for the replica. We agreed when we passed the law, and today we agree that this scale of work is too good and very good for one man or for 105 or 115 employees and to be satisfied with what was done. It may be possible in the future when they're registries, and when they're balance sheets, when something better can be controlled, but now it's impossible. We're going back to Podravka, which is the point of companies owned by the Republic of Croatia to say that they are successful? Well, the point is that in this company, they remain workers, that workers are not fired. Because if we sell the company, and we put the workers on the market we didn't win, we lost, we lost in the long run. We got a few million kunas in the state budget with which we patched up some credit holes and things like that, and the workers who became our social case, which we have to deal with as a socialist at that point because people don't have the ability to normally live on it, no one cares. And that's why I mentioned it to see what the priorities of this government are. Whether the government's priorities in managing companies owned by the Republic of Croatia are retaining jobs, opening new markets, quality management that will make a new product, open a new market, perform, hire a few more workers, and not fire them, or is the priority of this government selling out everything that can be sold out without absolutely knowing at what price we will sell it out because we have concluded that we do not have the real value of the assets that we have. So sell what you sell that and what the consequences will be we'll talk about in some new congregation.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9395	Next in the debate on behalf of the National Minority Club, distinguished representative Shandor Juhas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9396	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, so we say that we know and we don't know what we're up against without finally knowing what we're up against. We've done a lot and we could've done a lot more. I'm going to talk about concrete things, about what I know whether it's in a state or state opus like this last time, or we're going to talk about local things in this House. I think we as representatives of local communities or election units should talk here and represent the interests of those people who actually sent us here in a certain way. The report on the implementation of the property management plan owned by the Republic of Croatia says "The State must manage business premises and apartments in a rational and effective way in a way that those business premises and apartments needed by the state administration are placed in a function that will serve a more rational and efficient functioning. All other apartments and business premises must be offered on the market either in form of a lease or selling to a public tender." Then I wonder if the management of the apartments in Baranja so far in Bela Manastir was even rational and effective and I have a clear answer to that and I say it isn't. Whether these apartments are owned by DUUDI or are still owned by some other institutions as was the pension institution or schools, etc. But it's the property of all of us, the property of the state. For this reason, I cannot agree with the assessment of the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government that state assets were managed transparently, professionally and professionally. I was more prone to the opinion of the President of the Republic who, recently in a tour of the Zadar Archipelago, said that DUUDI is the biggest problem in this country as regards investments and has made a clear recommendation to DUUDI that if it is unable to really manage state assets, it is up to it to choose to hand the property over to local self-government or to give it to a concession. I would agree with that recommendation because that is the case with assets in the area of Baranja. He would pay particular attention to three specific issues that show the state's relationship with its assets. The attitude of the state towards its property is a mirror of the individual's attitude towards the state. How can someone appreciate their country if the state doesn't appreciate itself if it doesn't appreciate its property? It's a question we keep asking. The first question is about the so-called question. Not perspective military facilities. That's where he would mention the military issue in the White Manastir. That question has been withdrawn for years. Vojarna is situated in the city, stretching to about 7 hectares, standing abandoned. Ever since the state took over, she's devastated. Which was worth stretching out. The city tried to solve that problem without success. There were a lot of stakeholders, different investors reported, there were speeches with those investors to turn it into a modern complex. We have a couple of spas, a spa, and they wanted to deal with health tourism in a certain way. The request was submitted to DUUDI, submitted two years ago, no response until today. And something that would benefit the whole community, the city, the state might succeed and keep some young man working there standing, waiting and what little is left, and it will most likely fail if that situation remains. It is the same situation with a series of caraules located in the area towards the Hungarian border that fell and could be used in any way that there was, that there was reason. The second question I'm going to say about is agricultural land. Maybe someone will say it's not a DUUDI issue, but I would talk about what happened in the '40s, the '50s of the last century when the property of many was taken away within 24 hours when they were told to pack everything you have and what you'd be able to load on your car and carry and go. The land is given to those who have come or simply become a state country. The law on compensation for the seized property during the Yugoslav communist rule solved only part of those issues. This law has been updated and a new deadline has been allowed for the submission of applications for the return of that state property. However, many heirs to whom property was seized as I said in a few hours failed to return their property, their grandfatherhood, through the 50, 60 years. There were several reasons, one brother got, another brother didn't get, someone had foreign citizenship so he couldn't get it, some complained, so these complaints were respected, some not respected. However, the point in all this is that the property and the good part of the population, the citizens of Croatia are not returned and that something should be done there. A particular problem for me is that sometimes private property, meaning once the private property that was taken has turned into state property and now this state property is given in concession or re-sell to private property but formally not to those who previously had it. Someone here has also asked the question of concessions, so I'm asking the same question of concessions and I'm asking who has the right to give someone a 50-year concession on the country at 350 kuna per hectare and the market value is about 1800 kuna. Is that the presence of a good master? Is that an appreciation of state property? Is that some kind of attitude towards the state? He loses the community, loses the state, loses the local environment, everyone loses the only one. The issue of apartments is particularly problematic in the area of all Baranja. After a peaceful reintegration, some of the apartments were sold to those who had a tenant right. However, 144 apartments remain in the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and the Croatian Government has made it possible to sell 374 apartments in areas of special state care to the Croatian Pension Insurance Office for the transfer of ownership and ownership powers over apartments in the area of special state care to the Republic of Croatia. So areas that are reintegrated like the Vukovar area, etc., had the possibility of buying these apartments, however, the town of Beli Manastir area of Baranja was excluded from the decision. Why is only the White Manastir all over the Republic excluded from that decision, no one knows? Why couldn't the Belomansts only exercise the right that was given to all citizens in the Republic of Croatia? Why did only the White Manastir have to be subject to any special rules? What did the government then tell the citizens of White Manstir and Baranja? She told them clearly and loudly that they were inaccessible to buy apartments, that they were inaccessible and unworthy of the ownership of the Republic of Croatia. It's a problem that we've been trying to solve through all the city structures, but the situation is what it is, there is no progress and there is something to be done. Another problem related to apartments is the problem of buying apartments, the owner of residential rights in the area of the city and the whole of Baranja. These tenants who have lived in their apartments for 30 and 40 years have not been able to buy apartments at a preferential price. It is about 75 apartments of secondary and primary schools, pharmacy, home of health, etc., which were registered as owners in 1999. And while apartments were purchased throughout the Republic of Croatia at a preferential price only residents of the White Manastir had to pay a real price, the real price of the current apartment. Where is justice and logic? And instead of that property being surrendered, selling to interested people, there's no progress, everything's standing, it's being transferred. The memos shall be transferred from one ministry to another, from one institution to another, etc. I draw attention to this issue in a positive tone directly affecting the promotion of the return, remains and settlement of the population in the area of Baranja, Beli Manastir, and we have been warning for as long as possible. I therefore appeal to the current government to address this problem and propose making identical decisions, a solution that will apply to the White Manastir, for the Baranja area as it applies to the entire Republic of Croatia. And finally, I would say that if it wasn't all so black, I welcome the continuation of earlier operations, the establishment of the Central Register of State Property, which, since January 2014, is the first time that public access to state property data has been made available to the Republic of Croatia with a million and 16 thousand properties. I also welcome the drafting of the draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Management and Property of the Republic of Croatia, and so I appeal that all these problems, which I was saying, are not being put out and that no message is being sent to its residents that they are not subject to the same rules as others. And that's what I'd end up with. And maybe I'll go back, and I'll go back to what I said before, yeah, that's the problem, that's the state's problem, but I'm here to protect the interests of those who sent me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9397	Thank you. Dear MPs and MPs, since we have a lot of replicas on the presentation of my colleague Juhasa, I will now set a break by 15 hours and we will continue. ... It wouldn't be right for me to guess with you fellow Djakic, then he'll say I'm only guessing on the right side of the assembly. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What? .../Speakers speak in the same voice. They don't understand. But there's a replica in over five minutes. I think so.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9398	Mr. Vice President did the right thing. I think that's okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9399	... Are we working till 13:30? [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9400	Break. It's 13, 25 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9401	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] We have four replicas at Mr. Juhas' hearing. The first one is President Ingrid Antičević Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9402	In his discussion, a number of vital questions were raised by the purest of life that arise from this and that arise from this topic. You're asking a question about what kind of state doesn't appreciate its property. I would just remind myself that from the time Croatia was in the former state, it had its own special legislation to protect social or state property, so there was a criminal offence of the state-run occupation, i.e. there was social property. But since everything that was social became unfavourable, and it became essentially, it was called state, so it was essentially no longer protected. Well, then it became private overnight, and we don't know under any conditions, but it's the old subject. Also an important question that you ask about the return of property that private persons have not yet experienced under the Law on the return of property seized during the Yugoslav communist rule. However, this right is further condemned by the adoption of the Law on Tourism Land where everything that has not entered into the underlying capital and which should have returned to the former owners, which we in Zadar have on Puntamica is a question and it is questionable how they will be returned when they could become owners under the law. Then you ask the question of how were private property taken away after the 1990s by special laws in order to remain state-owned and then the state gave either in concession or further privatised. I'll just mention the Golf Act. You remember this shameful law that had its first article, which began with the provision of the first article: “Golf is of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia. ” And every single investor who wanted to build golf, a private person had to hand over the land to him with any compensation. So are the apartments and the ransom. So we have another big one, I would say in general that we have one great injustice that such apartments should be privatised and that the state has its own property and that it can damage both the owner and thus satisfy the household needs of the one found and who is in that apartment today. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9403	Thank you. Replicate response, esteemed representative of Shandor Juhas.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9404	You referred me to some things I didn't know about this tourist land, the golf law, etc. And I was talking about land, about what Baranja has and what's really our greatest treasure. And that's what I might be most worried about. As for the return of land taken from the 40s, I think there's still something that can be done here, I think we should do it. The law was also passed 999, and then in 2002 it was renewed on that return. And there was all this stuff going on. People knew. Part of them didn't know. Those who went out, who were expelled out, their signs of heirs lost their citizenship to the Republic of Croatia. The law didn't allow it to come back to them, so they complained, so there was all this. So then the Administrative Court made a decision that they could be given. Most of all, a lot of people are talking to me and talking to me these days about this topic so that that injustice that was done in the last few days or in a few hours when it was ordered to pick up your rags and go, and what was left is given either to Bela or to the former Belja or I don't know the privates or those who came to their place now can't get it. So the basic problem is that something that was private became social, became state and is now returning again, but is returning to the privates but not to those who previously had it. And I don't think that something that took a day or two or a few hours didn't deserve to be back after 50, 60 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9405	Thank you. Second replica, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9406	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Comrade Juhas, I agree with you that state property is being managed disastrously. A few days ago, on the anniversary of the 4th Guard Brigade, I was in a military Dračevac. In that military, which is the newer military just before the end of the '80s was built because I was a member of the fourth brigade right in that military I was now just part of the county court. The rest is a cemetery, a new military station. It's as if someone's interested in deliberately destroying this property and getting it for free. This is what I'm saying about Split, the very center of Solin and Split, a large complex. Well, I can't figure out who's protecting that property, which is why it's being destroyed, that's the key question. For what? Or military, you mentioned your environment, too, and I know it's such a military facility. It's the same thing in Sinj. We've got a new restaurant, no army anymore. The infrastructure's been destroyed, everything's new, it's been restored. Since the army's been gone, no one's been protecting her. Absolutely cables, that's a huge million-dollar cost. So, throughout the Republic of Croatia, state property is managed disastrously, and all governments are always thinking about selling something that is very important to us strategically. And the military buildings that are buildings, hard buildings, where it could be invested, where it could be invested, where schools could literally be installed if they don't have certain environments, hotels, tourist facilities nothing was done. So I'm interested in your position, you've been in Parliament for a long time, which is why the state has such a relationship, is that I'm right when I say there's an exclusive interest in selling it to someone for free for a small price.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9407	Replication response, Shandor Juhas.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9408	So now whose interest it is I wouldn't go into that deeper but the essence of all of it is one psychological influence perhaps on the population, on the people because all of those military, all of those caraules that are there are completely abandoned, stolen, stolen, destroyed, and no one reacts. And now it's actually a question of how to take care of someone, how to respect one environment or respect the state if the state treats its property that way? Well, that's the same thing about why I'm respecting someone now when he doesn't respect himself? So there's a key to maybe questions. Create some kind of picture, change it. Because that's what I'm saying and I'm also saying one psychological motive for the state of the nation itself, the state itself. And that's not the least thing to worry about. As far as I'm concerned, I can say that the other day I was with one of the mayors of the municipality, so there are three such caraules in his area. And now he explains to me, says see Juhas on the other side of the border is a Hungarian carnival. They built some kind of farm there where some grow horses and have this sort of riding, etc. So they've turned one object into something that benefits the whole community. And on the other side of the border, there's a caraula that's healed in the weeds, and there's a tree going through the roof that's grown in the meantime, and no one's taking care of it. And now that's this psychological moment, that's the picture that we're providing, so not only for those who are looking at the other side of the border, but for our people who are watching. So who we are is the state that in this way we allow our assets to fail and look at those on the other side how well they work.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9409	Thank you. The next replica, the distinguished representative of Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9410	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Juhas, I will touch on the two topics that you mentioned in your debate. First, related to the military, so all of this is true and what is true, but what is important in this report is that each real estate in the Republic of Croatia needs to be accessed individually. It seems to me that Prime Minister Oreshkovic's statements, and this statement by the president, have been made quite lightly since there are indeed a number of problems on the ground. And you should actually see what the economic interest is in this case of a local self-government unit or an entrepreneur who would invest in such facilities because the state can't. I think the state is not an entrepreneur that invests in buildings, the state needs to protect its assets and without initiative there's nothing down there. Here's Mr. Boban from the county where I come from, we have a positive example in Virovitica, and we need to highlight where the military is put into operation. So there's a high school now. But without an initiative from below, the problem will not be solved. As far as agricultural land is concerned, there's a lot of problems and it's true that up until a few years ago, actually, the former government introduced it, we didn't even have a record of any leases or a record of a contract to rent agricultural land. And you said in your debate who gave the country in concession for 300, 350 kuna while, say, OPG's pay over 1000 kuna rent. In 2006, 2007, in 2008, the country was given a concession at these prices and that is the answer to your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9411	Replicate response, esteemed representative of Shandor Juhas.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9412	Well, making statements lightly is most likely due to the fact that the current prime minister may not yet have seen the situation and does not know enough about the situation on the ground, does not know or is not presented to him, has not arrived or was not interested or I do not know what. Mostly I don't think there's a clear picture of what's out there, which is in that part of Croatia where he may not have been or I'm not sure he was in Baranja, for example. Well, then he can't even have a vision of all that. I think here's what might happen in the future. As for the rent price, so I tried to pull it out here on several occasions, and on several occasions I warned about the problem. In 2006, and in 2007, huge spaces in Baranja are in concessions, long-term leases, temporary leases, etc. to those who had enjoyed it in a certain way. With one such goodwill that will keep the industry, that will work there, that will hire workers. And the day is at some price of 350 kuna and then even worse. However, we have better pearls, in 2011 in Beli Manastir 15-ac, 20 hectares of the country have been processed, contracted with the city, contracted for about 100 marks per hectare in 2011 to take away the country they have already prepared for sowing and given at half the price of Belje, Agrokor. Instead of the city and the state earning 100 euros per hectare, the prepared land for sowing was given to someone who paid 50 euros, and those were not even compensated for their work.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9413	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Davor Bernardic. He's gone. He's losing his right. The next debate is on behalf of the HNS club and distinguished representative Milorad Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9414	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr Boban, colleagues and colleagues means a report on the implementation of an asset management plan owned by the Republic of Croatia for 2015. Well, I'd like to leave shortly after the matter is extremely extensive, and it's hard to tell her everything they want to say about the subject in 15 minutes. So the basis, we have the 2013 law, the property management strategy and what is the fundamental principle, the principle of public, the principle of effectiveness, predictability and accountability, the preservation of state property for future generations but of course for the present through the activation of assets, the function of powering economic growth or primarily taking account of us, which is extremely important to protect national interests. In order to be able to use the property precisely according to these principles which are both defined by the strategy and more precisely defined by the law itself, it is necessary to have the property, i.e. the property register, to know primarily what it is available with. Furthermore, listening to the debates of colleagues on behalf of clubs that took place both 1, 15 and 20 years back we will focus mainly on what is the topic but I would also like to mention in that part that in this part DUDI what is pointed out and through the findings of the audits and what the report itself says is a question and it was mentioned in the debate how optimal it is for people to respect the law and strategy of state property management. Right now, according to the report on whether about a hundred people, 100 people are working. There used to be over 200 at the AUDI agency, now there's state property, now there's a CERRP, so I think it's left on some level. I'm not sure that's an optimal number. So this also results in a certain dynamic of solving cases especially when viewed in this report how many over 1,000 items were received for a specific way of making available, they were solved in the last year only 40 and something. According to some math, it would take another 20 years. This is unacceptable and it simply does not meet the fundamental principles of governance defined by both the strategy and the law itself. Furthermore, when you look at these statistics during 2015, about 40 300 requests were received. When you bring down simple mathematics that is not at some, that it's about 80, 70, 80 employees who solve these objects, it's about 3 objects a day, if we look at the structure of these objects simply it's the one who knows, knows, is referred to the work of the administration it's practically impossible mission. I'm saying this not because we're going to support this report but simply for the reason that the new director, the head of the office, I believe he's familiar with it, but I haven't heard in his opening statement his position on this State Property Management report. For a short period of time, of course, I think, first of all, that regardless of how to make it available and which property it is and which property it is about whether it is about the stakes in companies, whether it is about real estate that the state should define which property is of strategic importance for the development of the Republic of Croatia. And I believe that then this report that we have observations on but in terms of proposing how to make the future report more consistent, and it doesn't take 15 chapters than to bring them down. According to us strategic property management plan, real estate management plan, management plan for all other assets. What is also being read here and we should redefine or position the property, it says is whether it is in the Pensions, Health, etc. So the government should define what, whether it's all going to the DUUDI or it's going to stay the property as it is, but regardless of whether or not we should have, a complete record should come before us here in the Parliament. I will look more closely at this part of the requirements of the units of local and regional self-government, and I will take advantage of the occasion that on behalf of the HNS Club, we have put amendments and additions to the Law on State Property Management with a view and I hope that the DUDI will consider and the Government itself will also consider this bill. Its basic intensity that more property with which the state, I will simplify, does not know what would not be of strategic public interest, it is not agricultural land, it is not forest land, it is not about stakes, business stakes in enterprises it makes available to local and regional self-government units. We have a foothold in this report as well, in the last year's report as well as in the contacts that we had with the then services, i.e. the chairman, former DUUDI representative. We believe that these amendments and amendments to the law would now be met with fundamental objectives, not only of the strategy but primarily of the governance strategies and plans that were practically identical with the main and clear objective of putting into service as soon as possible state property. When you look at it, it means that as far as the requirements are concerned, the local and regional self-government units are currently working on over 1,000 requests. During 2015 22 donation contracts were concluded, for the purpose of building infrastructure facilities, 15 contracts on donations for the purpose of achieving projects that are of general public and social interest, 6 donation contracts for the purpose of achieving projects that are of particular importance for economic development. It's that math from earlier on, so it takes 21 years of that dynamic, at that rate to get rid of it. What should also be said other than this part means that the issue of staff was also mentioned also the costs related to the assessment of the value of certain properties made available. So we have to be aware that we are a company of the market economy, that DUUDI can't have in view of the incomes that DUUDI employees have, when you have masters of rights, when you have economists, high professional equipment and wages, the president will correct me, somewhere on average 5 to 6 thousand kuna. I don't think that's acceptable. We have to define ourselves, we have to decide how and what. It is primarily a strategy that we adopted in 2013, it has a period of validity until 2017. And by the logic of things, not the formal nature but the interest of doing so, I would say the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia and of this current government and Parliament is in the interest of defining as soon as possible what and how with the property further. 2016 will pass, 2017 whether, what is the political perspective. According to the current situation, I am not overly optimistic. What I would also like to say is about our bill there is a problem with military real estate. All of us in our practice, someone more, someone less had the chance to meet, now I'm going to go back a little bit with AUDI, with procedures, with solving or not solving the case. However, we must also be aware of that, even if we see it that way, that the DUDI, then AUDI, was the government's service and so should be the Parliament's service. It depends on what our position and our commitment to the property will be. And we can't blame the AUDI at that time or today's DUUDI, yesterday's or tomorrow's DUUDI. The issue is the policy defined by the Government, or this Croatian Parliament. If an analysis of the state of the property was made I will try to present to you in short lines my example, in 2003 the city, at the time I was not mayor, made a request to give a military, abandoned military, non-perspective, to make available, to rent, whether to sell, was made an assessment of the value of the property, was made necessary investment because the property was devastated. And the real estate was built in the '80s in the last century, though. So by looking at a building building with a minimum investment that was then estimated in 2006 or in 2007 when we applied to AUDI it was necessary to invest about 700 thousand kuna. You know how long it takes today? Not three million is enough, not three million kunas. Based on this, it cannot be concluded that the property was well managed because it was not managed at all, at all, by a large part of the property of that kind remained abandoned, it remained at the mercy of the irresponsible citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Complete infrastructure destroyed. That object reminded me of '91. and '92. A year on a papal battlefield when we saw in our own eyes a devastated house, regardless of whose it was. That's unacceptable. For exactly the same reason, I hope that when you colleagues and colleagues receive a proposal from our law, it will go in two readings, for exactly the reason why, we want you to install your experiences in it, certain remarks, corrections precisely with the aim of making this law as good as possible, as possible. And at the end of the office, Mr. Boban, in your place, I believe you've recorded the situation, that you have a lot of data, and at some level of continuity, you're with it. I would suggest that, first of all, you refer to the Government to show what it wants with the property, to initiate yourself as soon as possible from the business stakes, i.e. from companies, which are businesses, which are assets of strategic interest for the Republic of Croatia, after which things will be much clearer and it will be easier to discuss reports and it will be easier to implement the law that we have passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9415	Thank you. We have three replicas. The first is the famous Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9416	Several times in your debate, you mentioned what I think is the point of this whole debate. What property in Croatia is of strategic interest, and while we are trying to conduct a discussion on the subject, Mr. Oreshkovic has announced for a month, for two days, by giving a big interview to foreign journalists that it is largely not sold, but the sale of state property in Croatia has started and is being prepared for it. To the extent that we can no longer say this by selling or dispensing rather than by making a big seasonal downturn. What's he trying to do with it? So, he simply patched up the holes, reduced the public debt, which he himself says by selling out 30 billion euros in state property he's about to try to cut the deficit. That's why all these discussions, so it's the only reform procedure that we have, to sell out what generations and generations have gained, we're neither against sales nor what is necessary but not on these principles, unfortunately, about which you speak and what is a great danger. In the end, it will withdraw what Mrs Nancy Tyrelli said by firing, so by reducing the number of employees and with such an effect burdening the citizens with other duties, firing workers, sales, these are reforms which we now see as reforms they wish to give to Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9417	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Milorad Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9418	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues, Ingrid. So I think this prime minister's statement, too, is to be honest I haven't heard him say two things like that. First of all, the basic fact that I'm not sure, I wouldn't want to hurt anyone but I'm not sure Oreshkovic read the development strategy, I'm sorry, the management strategy and he also knows the law. The Prime Minister must not, in my opinion, speak or make such statements in public. The more he's presentable to the outside, the more it's no wonder that our credit rating is falling and that's the world's relationship to us. But I'll agree, we agree in the work that when strategic property is defined, when it's defined what's not of particular interest, when it's defined when the state defines, politics primarily that property through an inventory with which it doesn't know what to do. It's not anything but for sale, if he can't dispose of it or if there's no way or mode of availability of someone else with that property. Selling doesn't necessarily mean bad or evil. Each and every one of us should be able to see it when he's personally in that situation. All of us may or may not have inherited some property, land, etc. And now what about it. What you're going to inherit is 10 ha of land, you don't do agriculture, you can't hire anyone because nobody does agriculture, you have a country house or something. If you don't put in office, you don't have it adequately, a good master's march will fail. Unfortunately, such cases, if such dynamics will occur, will become more and more of such access in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9419	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9420	Thank you. Comrade Batinić, you finally wondered what the government wanted with the property? While we have been here all afternoon discussing this, a report on how to manage and dispose of state assets in history, so 2015, through discussions earlier, the government is at a phone session. Therefore, even ministers have not even met in the government made a decision, a new decision on the establishment of a list of companies and other legal persons of strategic and special interest. The decision was deleted by 9 companies that have so far been defined as either strategically or of particular interest. I will also read them at this time, ACI, Croatia Airbus, Luka Rijeka, Croatia Bank, and we really hear the cry for Croatia to need a state bank, Petrochemija, Končar elektroindustrija, Podravka, Croatia Insurance, Mali Lošinj Airport. At what speeds this list has now been reviewed and new criteria have been developed to remove some of the companies from this list when we still didn't even know the company's going to privatize with the budget the other day. We've opened a tender to review which of these 56 companies so far could go with restructuring or without restructuring into possible privatisation? It is actually the beginning of these 9 companies because they are no longer of special interest to the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9421	Replica response, distinguished representative Milorad Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9422	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Zgrebec, let's get along. Our thinking is that certain companies depending on how much they share in them if they have no perspective and are not of particular importance, so the state cannot influence these companies through the control package is not even controversial to sell. But what you wouldn't want to make it a trend, you wouldn't want it to become a trend and the fact is that if you're in the grip and I'm more and more inclined to believe, the question of how the budget is filled, the question of what revenue is. Although what our past government left behind and positive trends should speak exactly the opposite. It's not good when a man finds himself in a grip, then he goes on that folk's day, just let him sell. That's not good! This is not good and we are thinking that for certain companies we sell shares in particular, and also the property, and they were when the strategy was being made and when the law was being passed they were proposing a number of MPs that it should be the Croatian Parliament who would make such decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9423	Thank you. The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9424	Thank you very much. Here's a colleague now talking, and a colleague spoke earlier about strategic companies, and I personally also now hear for the first time that Podravka is if you listed, if it's the correct information and that the Parliament will decide this time. And of course Podravka is the strategic interest of the Croatian audience that is my position and every individual will decide and I will personally be against Podravka being no longer inside. But what's the problem? That's what I'm saying personally that I'm not going to support it, so as an individual, and as in this case, the MP and the ACI and the others. But 100 billion kunas, 300 billion kunas, and today we have a bad... Then the question is really how is the state run and what is being led. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What happened to the possession of the warlords that were being destroyed, you listed in your neighborhood, so I'd ask Mr. Boban what happened to the Blue Army Tower, what about the Sinjska down Dračevac. Here's what I'm asking you, 'cause I come from that neighborhood where you protect her. It's a felony. Who's responsible for that? Is DUUDI responsible or someone third? That's millions of dollars worth of damage. What happened? So inspective military, the MORH has transferred to local self-government solely because more MORH does not pay any compensation mainly for municipal fees. And now these local units have this very dangerous, because it creates mostly a dump, gathering places of some kind that can cause a variety of communal problems. So, I'm thinking about the previous one, and this one, too, if we don't protect the property, if the property isn't protected that it's a criminal act of endangering property, and that's obvious when we look at these barracks that were new, neat, clean. You see that it's someone's interest and someone has to be held accountable. Who's gonna be I'd ask you to write it down, and I've given you a replica and I hope your new law, I'm sorry you haven't moved it before in four years of your previous term when you're in charge of 100 billion kuna, so I hope it's a good one, so there's no reason not to accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9425	Replica response, distinguished representative Milorad Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9426	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bulj, we will not decide, but you have the option, and all of us will also propose in that part of the amendment and addition of the law. However, it is not good, the government is an executive body. Certain things, so this should first and foremost be defined which are strategic companies, which would certainly be about the availability, with which Parliament should decide. We leave this operational part to the government. I believe we agree. So there's room to look at the existing law and to go into these changes. When you mentioned who was responsible, the owner was responsible. What I'm also saying is a broad topic, extensive. It's hard to mention everything. Now you remind me. In my experience, I know when we were buying from private people whether for the business zone, whether for the infrastructure because there's no state property in my area. If he has it, it's negligible. The main problem was unsettled property-legal relations. And now Mr. Boban knows very well how much state property he has and how much time he needs, how many people out of 100 or 105 he has to single out just for that kind of business plus grant, cadastre, arrangement, etc. etc. It's not simple, to be clear, it's not easy. However, I don't think DUDI can be responsible for the collapse. DUUDI may be responsible for non-resolvement of certain requirements or indispose in its jurisdiction, and politics, or government and parliament, we are responsible if certain assets fail.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9427	Thank you. The next club is HDZ, the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9428	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear colleague Boban. We have a report before us that is technically purely correct, but we as a club will not support it for a few reasons. First of all, the results of the State Property Management Strategy and some of the processes that took place in 2015 are which we cannot support as a club. However, when we are discussing this report, it is necessary, for the fact and for the sake of truth, to warn some things, because in replicas it was, and this is the Law on State Property Management was adopted in 2011, and the Strategy on State Property Management for the coming year must always be adopted by 30.10. It's based on the law. However, when we talk about state property management here, then I simply cannot skip one cowardly egg left by the last government to this government, which is a regulation on the appointment of supervisory committees and boards on commercial societies owned by the majority and minority ownership of the Republic of Croatia. You are well aware that the Government has brought that regulation in moments when it was not allowed to be passed because we have the Law on the handover of the authorities and it is precisely known from the time of the election to the handover of the authorities that decisions, laws and regulations, etc. I can bring it. Among them, it is not certain that a regulation defining the way in which the supervisory boards and the management of commercial companies are elected in the next period for the simple reason that this regulation, by its technical nature, is such that it has disabled the new government and, to this day, virtually in most companies, the supervisory boards of the threads are appointed administrations. In this way, the new government was disabled at the very beginning by quality management of state property. But that was how it was, so much about correctness. However, in the course of the government's presentation and in the adoption of the budget, I tried to boost one topic, as far as Croatia as the state is concerned, whether in private ownership or owned by the state, how lost in these 6 years of economic and financial crisis and how much they lost on the value of their assets to Croatian citizens. And what I think is DUUDI, which was founded exclusively for one reason, which is that from one place it is managed with total state property, so both companies and shares, so with rights, and even I can say today, it will have to come to DUUDI tomorrow, because simply in one place it has to be complete property it should have done and this is a new assessment of the value of companies both in minority and majority ownership and in 100% state ownership. Because even those companies listed on the stock market, given the dynamics and the amount of traffic on the stock market, the question is whether they have the real value of the shares because these shares are underrated. And we can say that with some companies where the stock was being sold that the shares were underrated, so that's not some kind of parameter either. I think it's the key thing to do before any sales and sales decisions. Why? Because at this point, the market just doesn't work. We can talk whatever we want. I will mention only three companies, one unfortunately is no longer owned by the state, but Croatian forests have a strong property that is not the property they need to carry out their activities. So these are various excursions, hunting sites, etc. It is a great value but unfortunately dead capital at this time that pays for Croatian forests, maintenance and all that expensive, from hunting houses, forest houses, vineyards, which is not everything. And it's simply not brought to an economic purpose. You today when you talk about the value of Croatian forests, so that someone doesn't tell me right away we are and priors against it Croatian forests don't go into any sale so that someone doesn't get some things out of context, so when you talk about Croatian forests you have a great wealth which unfortunately stands unused and which Croatian forests cost. The same story is with HEP without talking about the properties owned by Croatia's insurance. So this is something that must simply be assessed, it has to be assessed because the new situation has led to many properties that were once terribly worth almost nothing today, and the question is how much total space does it take. What I would especially like to say here on behalf of the club is the property of the Croatian Army. I think that to this day, the Croatian Army has not made a detailed list of military perspective assets, so the property that will be used exclusively by the military and property of a military not perspective that must practically come to DUUDI and the state must decide with it. And there are an awful lot of tourist complexes here, and the state has to make a decision on what to do with it. Coopers weren't long on the waiting list because someone wanted to let them go down, but for the simple reason, the military practically didn't want to give up Cooper until the last minute and say that the Coopers weren't military perspective property to invest in. When we talk about selling state-owned companies, it is a subject that unfortunately always causes political recommendations and even political debates, but eventually someone will have to make a decision about whether it is better to have a loss-making company and there is no way without financial restructuring to do better business or to sell such a company, so someone who buys it by making a deal to invest money in it, so tomorrow they will hire some new people and the company will work normally and we will all benefit from it. I'll just give you two examples that were taboo topics, one is still, and one was up a few years ago. As far as those in the past are, I'm going to say 16 years because in those 16 years it was HDZ, 8 years it was SDP and its coalition, cost the state budget. Shipbuilding, the programme of rehabilitation and restructuring of shipbuilding from 2002 to the final sale that took place in 2012 this whole story costs us more than 30 billion kuna. What's our situation today with the shipyards? Unfortunately, most of them are on their knees. Some practically don't exist anymore. Now, if it were going into the sales restructuring programme 10 or 15 years ago, if these companies had started operating on some kind of market and normal principles, probably the state budget wouldn't have invested that much money, and for that amount, the public debt would have been lower. Croatian railways, same story. Through guarantees, through subsidies, through incentives over the past 16 years almost 30 billion kuna. And the question is of these guarantees that have been issued over the past three years how much will be charged in the coming years. Unfortunately, nothing has changed on Croatian railways. So, they continue to create losses, they have lots of lines that are simply invaluable economically but at the same time in a place where there was a lot of room for investment and that's suburban railway transport, here I mean first of all the City of Zagreb and the surrounding area, the same stories can be told when we talk about Rijeka and Split. Unfortunately, very little has been invested, but it is therefore parallel to investing in the city and suburban public transport network and spending twice as much on two sides. But I repeat Croatian railways and Croatian shipbuilding in the past 16 years from the state budget almost 60 billion kuna. That's what I'm saying for a reason when we're discussing whether some companies are better off selling or keeping them state-owned. When we talk about the management of the titleholder of ownership, it doesn't have to mean that someone is good or bad at managing it, but if you set the same criteria that apply and you have a private company and what it says is that if you didn't hire him as a director, then you wouldn't have to push him into a state firm and I think we all have to stick to that principle. And if we stick to that principle, then we won't talk about mismanagement of state property anymore. In 2010, a public tender was held and all managements of commercial companies owned by the State and the supervisory committees were appointed through a public tender. By changing power in 2012, all these people have been removed, people have been appointed by political decree, although they were then warned that this was past the EU directive, but this was done as it was done. 2013 changed the law which is once again returning to the fact that the supervisory boards and directors of public companies must be appointed through a public tender and then we come to that regulation that I spoke about at the beginning of my debate. Now the only question is, when you look at these companies' profits, how many states have they lost over the past four years of political governance? Let's not talk about HEP's profit, which is solely due to the increase in electricity prices, exclusively because of that. Because HEP was supposed to be an investment vehicle under the Government Programme if you read the 2012 programme. HEP and other state-owned companies were supposed to be the investors of an economic boom, however, neither did HEP make an investment, and for three years it charged 25% higher electricity prices, nor did other companies make an investment, nor were other companies the bearer of investments. So, when we talk about state-owned companies, unfortunately some of them in the past were in a certain way also a social institution. In many companies, people were employed beyond the criteria or people were not fired beyond the criteria because of some social aspect and social problem. But the state social policy has to run from the budget and companies have to operate exclusively on market principles because we've entered the market and if we're not going to behave like that market, the market economy then we won't accomplish anything simply because we can't play in a game where there are clear rules, we can't play something else. So we simply burden the product unit with excessive costs that do not belong there. Well, social policy is driven from the budget. If these companies pay the money in their budget through income tax, through increased employment, through the payment of pension and health contributions will be less needed to pay from tax revenues the difference or minus that is achieved by the pension and health fund means we have achieved an effect. So, I sincerely hope that in its 2016 property abuse strategy, the government will clearly determine which companies remain in state ownership, which are companies to be privatised. And here I'd like to say something about two privatisation laws. The 2002 INA and HEP privatisation law clearly states in the INA Privatisation Act that the then SDP coalition has brought to you that by joining the EU, the Croatian state will have only 25% of the INA. That's what the INA Privatisation Act says. And the HEP Privatisation Act was put out of force in 2010 because simply then the government said HEP is not something to sell, HEP needs to be restructured and HEP is certainly a company that can make a good profit and HEP is a company that can guarantee that Croatian citizens will not pay expensive electricity if HEP is operated on market principles and not in the way it was said. So the HDZ Club won't support this report. We hope that when the new Government amends the rules on the appointment of board members and supervisory committees, although some regulations have been amended, new administrations will also adopt a new State Property Management Strategy. In front of these new administrations and in front of the new supervisory boards, we set clear goals that they must do, and if we set ourselves up, we can talk about how we want to manage state property quality. If we don't set ourselves up like that, then that's all just throwing dust in our eyes and unfortunately going into the fog.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9429	We have this discussion of four replicas. The first one is the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9430	And just what you've finished your discussion with, I think the key to all this is getting dust in your eyes and clouding the situation. You tell your colleague in your debate that you are hoping for a 2016 strategy, you probably meant by the 2016 plan, the Government will determine which companies are of strategic interest. However, all the things you've been talking about, saying you won't support this, I'm asking you, will you support what happened at the phone session today? So it's so important and important to them that the move of feathers without anything that you've talked about before, and before the adoption of a plan for the availability of property, in order to explain the improvement of state property management, has wiped out these important companies that were spoken of by distinguished colleague Dragica Zgrebec at a telephone session, and they are no longer of any strategic interest, because that's how the government decided at a phone session without any of these facts, the need that you spoke of which I agree with in the introduction. And in such a way, Mr. Shuker, I think you'll have to agree with me no matter how uncomfortable you may be, it has proved that Mr. Tihomir Oreshkovic is leading the state as a secret society and selling out what generations and generations have acquired here without asking anyone, he hired advisors who will... All these companies, it was, how, not even a month, 20 days and today we have, 8 days, and today at the phone session he decides that they are no longer companies of strategic interest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is something on the trail as he saved PLIVA in quotes, that he fired thousands and thousands of top and most valuable experts who had a European reputation in Croatia specifically in Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9431	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9432	So colleagues Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, I can agree in part with you, however... No, but let's go back a little bit. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So you made it impossible for us to manage these companies, to disable them. But don't forget the HAC consultants, don't forget the HAC monetization consultants, don't forget the clean start consultants, and that's the result of which we won't support this report. So that's the result. Because you paid a lot of money to find out what everyone knew, so that's a fact. The second thing is, if the government has proposed something and the government has made a decision that they are not companies of strategic interest but that they are companies that are going to sell so the government will probably make criteria as well as why. So what I said in my debate, I'm still standing by it. I'm opposed to someone saying they should sell some state-owned companies because they're bad. I believe that the company needs to be restructured and that it should be brought into operation to work well and then it is to go sell as something that is good and healthy. Because if you're selling patients, then it's very hard to sell them, but you have to pay someone who'll nurse them and take them to put them on healthy feet. So these are simply facts that stand the way they are. However, your strong praise for the good macroeconomic indicators has simply forced this government to come up with certain incomes that cannot be obtained from the famously good charge that you have talked about but simply must come in another way and another way is the only sale of certain companies for which the Government will probably explain why it considers them not of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9433	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9434	Thank you, Vice President. When you mentioned Croatian forests, HEP and others, I agree, I agree that the public enterprise of the Croatian forest has certain properties that were once an integral part of the management of forests, the management of hunting sites, there were also resorts and still there. And I agree that everything that is not in the production function, which is not in the forest management function or which is not in the hunting business, certain forest administrations also have state hunting sites that they manage, yes, should be made available. That's where I agree. But there's a general problem, you have a lollipop, an attractive one that has its own cadastar particle. And that cadastral particle is some, it could be 40, 50, or 60 acres. What now? You're also selling a piece of the forest. If you bring this object down to a narrow yard, it's no longer an attractive property, it's no longer an attractive property. So, first of all, I would suggest that the congregation of society, or the Minister or Government, be defined together and determined as to what and how. So you have to make a pitch to see... But then you enter the area, the basic areas that cover the entire Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the situation isn't that simple. But this part of the resort I agree with. Croatian forests as a public enterprise, established for forest management, should not be engaged in tourism. Also in HEP, should be put into operation. And as far as camps are concerned, we are in the last amendments to the laws on both forests and on agricultural land, I think that since these are mostly categorized as partial protection or forest special purposes not to sell it but to give in long-term, multi-annual... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9435	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9436	Coliga Batinić, you were just like me in the last session and you remember the amendment of the forest law when it is said that if, because of the need to form a building plot, that part of the forest can be converted into building land by such and such an accelerated legal process. It was the biggest problem and slow us out of opposition to the legislator. However, no one can tell me that all these years, so I am not even amnesty while HDZ was in power, we were unable to isolate it and bring it to a certain point. To have someone do some kind of festival once in 15 or a month and unfortunately it comes down to it and these are objects of enormous value, objects that are not worth 2, 3, 5 or 10 thousand euros, these are objects worth a few million kunas and some even more. So that's one segment. And the second segment is resorts located in very attractive areas along the Adriatic coast or along rivers or lakes that are simply economically unused. By virtue of collective agreements, the company can determine from the money it sells to help its employees go on vacation but have such resorts that are not used, which are below some level of quality accommodation etc., I think it is more than any healthy logic because it would be more logical to sell them and make one quality hotel facility with 4 or 5 stars because more or less all these resorts are located along the coast. They are not 500m or km, two from the coast, they are all along the coast, both the war and the HEP, both from the Croatian forests and we when we talk about the property, it is definitely a Croatian perspective which should be displayed as such, and as such they should better paint a picture of Croatia, that Croatia is not a highly in charge of the country, but Croatia has property and in such a way, it is the same argument for raising credit ratings.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9437	Thank you. Next replica, the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9438	Thank you. Dear colleague Schuker, I'm actually going to ask you here to say your opinion on one thing because I appreciate that opinion because you were also a minister and you probably know a lot of facts about what I'm about to say. Today we talk about many aspects of DUUDI's work, many things we've mentioned both apartments and forests and fields, etc. We didn't open the question of the property of the concession, so the succession as a serious business, and we didn't open the question, nobody here opened the question of a succession in the name of an annex contract, Annex G of the Treaty of Vienna. We know that we signed him as a state in 2004 that Mr. Zuzulj still signed, and we know that we have committed to returning private property, the property of the legal persons to the state of the 90th, so not through restitution, not through compensation, but somehow. And some estimates say that Croatia, for example, has an asset value of about 800 million dollars or more in Serbia. Conversely, Serbia has over a billion here. I don't know. Some data says it doesn't matter. As long as it's a huge asset that stays in the air for now, hanging, we don't have a solution for that. The fact is that the media is silent about it, we don't have some kind of special strategy and I'm asking if it'll come to you eventually on the agenda, we'll have to deal with it. Are we now in a situation where we put our heads in the sand in front of this big problem instead of opening it because we didn't even talk about it in the 2013 strategy, we didn't even bring that problem into the DUDI Labour Strategy. I've read today, I can see it wasn't there, and it's a very serious, international contractual obligation and a big deal. I'd like to hear your opinion on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9439	Thank you. Replication response, esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9440	So it is undeniable that Croatia will respect its internationally signed contracts. Today, however, there was a lot of talk about INA. INA in Croatia is equal to the value of the INA stolen from us by Serbia and Republika Srpska? That's one question. The other thing is, I'm not looking at INA through gas stations and stuff, I'm looking at the loss of the market. So, if INA, according to what you're talking about, was able to turn this business unit in Serbia into some kind of company or Republika Srpska and sell products through it before the Russians came to the refineries in Pancheva and to the Bosnian Ship, then this INA would be worth more and then this INA could be a financial panda of all this demand. I am therefore the democratic world rests on private property, rests on property. And no one has the right to take away anyone's property. It's just a fact that we all have to fight for because it is. Tomorrow we can be in a position to have someone take mine or yours, so how can I ask for something else to apply to me than it used to be, than I did to someone else. But I ask you all here colleagues and colleagues how many INAs were present on the Serbian market and how many INAs were present on the Republika Srpska market? Why am I speaking on the Republika Srpska market? Because INA in some of the energy transactions of Petrola practically came up with some of that property. How much money did that go? There are things that just can't be changed. And probably when we talk about this conflict, we're going to have to find some kind of agreement, something to do, but these are things that don't suffer emotions, these are things that don't suffer anything else, but naked numbers, grades, but a clear methodology of who lost what because many companies unfortunately because of the change in economic situation in these areas, whether there was war or not, they wouldn't exist anymore. So it simply takes methodological things to be aware of the same level, but I'm just one company that I think has damaged the Republic of Croatia for a lot of money.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9441	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Tomisalav Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9442	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Shuker. Somehow long ago when I heard the first word that Croatia is in transition somehow seems to me 25 years after the beginning of that transition, we are still in transition. I'm saying that in the context of mentioning your two major areas it's shipbuilding and it's Croatian railways. I really agree with you. A lot of money has been invested, and you said in one part of the debate that the market must condition our behaviour, our relationship with businesses, they must operate on economic principles. However, you mentioned the social situation a little later, and indeed these branches were inherited by a large number of people who are in these systems, and I'm mostly talking about human destiny. So all the things they've been doing over the years, and it's hard to get them to another job overnight. So, I'm talking about jobs. You know well that when you go into any reform and in that area that there comes great resistance above all unions, then the opposition, you were recently in opposition. Of course, at that time you probably spoke differently than you are now related to such topics. Because if we say companies have to do business by economic principles, then people have to fire themselves because nobody, no privateer with an economic interest, is going to invest in some kind of rail line where traffic is low. And the railway line isn't just, it's not just where we have the profits, it's where it's important for the maintenance of the population and other reasons. And here's the time kind of leaking. One more thing. I'm from Slavonia. Of course, I'm not defending shipbuilding, but let's take an example of how much money has gone into agriculture. Do we know today if we've achieved the results we wanted to achieve? How much encouragement has come, therefore, to all those who cultivate agricultural land. So these are all the things that work, fate and these things are hidden, if we're just talking about economic principles, it's not good to talk about, and I think that shipbuilding still has some results today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9443	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9444	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Sagar, I purposely opened some topics for the simple reason that they tang both the one and the other political option. So we can't transfer that much. The programme of restructuring and shipbuilding and privatisation ended with us paper. You practically spent it all the way. However, the whole 2002 - 2016 story costs us about 28 billion kuna. For railways, the state needs to make infrastructure. But when the railways started their restructuring program in 2005 do you know what their relationship was like? So for one earned kuna, the state had to give two kunas 85 to make the railways zero. Therefore, the need to invest the state should be reduced, and this is the restructuring programme. However, you see as soon as a minister mentions that something will change and that someone will lose some deserved right as if it were, his ancestors have left it for him to inherit it immediately is a panic, he is immediately raised by the halls, etc. But I just mentioned these two things that have raised our public debt by 60 billion, because of those 290 and some other billions of 60 waste on this, just in these 16 years, just because some things don't have to be politicized. Because if I were to see differently that this company has to work that I own it, then I have to, if I'm going to set up a law against that company if it's state-owned and not behaving, I don't care, it's state-owned. So my debate on behalf of the club went that way. I tried to deprive her of any politics and politics. Why? Because we didn't have the political will and the power to restructure state-owned companies paid a lot of billions and if we hadn't, if we'd all had the courage to do this before, we'd probably have made the public debt of the Republic of Croatia smaller today by one 170, 180 billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9445	Thank you. The next debate is on behalf of the HSS club, HDS esteemed representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9446	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues. This debate in the morning when it began had a completely different course than there was this moment after what was brought here at the government of the Republic of Croatia's telephone session, and related to strategic and companies of interest to the Republic of Croatia. I'll say that this report of DUUDI for 2015 is actually very well done. As has already been said several times here and it could be said that as such is actually the result of something DUUDI actually did well. But if we go into content then our club will not support this Report, because it shows that DUUDI did not actually do the job that was to be done during 2015, and this was warned when the law was amended, when DUUDI was established as such, it was said that it would not be able to meet the needs of the job and that it would not be able to perform the tasks that were given to DUUDI. 104 employees in 2015, 6100 arrivals by natural persons, means a circus of about 20 per day. That's not a big number to say it's not possible to do. But I have to admit that we've had DUUDI in the past year, and those before that, how people can joke a little bit about who to eat, they've all heard about him, and no one's seen him. So when anything had to be solved in DUUDI, everyone was taking their hair, because they knew they couldn't solve anything. 41297 received acts. I haven't been able to find it in the material, it's probably listed somewhere, it's quite extensive how long it's been the average time of solving an object, how long it's been going on. But it's not weird, either, because we need to know that in this country which is totally messy, especially in that property-legal part of the state with a bunch of non-implementable laws, it wasn't even normal for DUDI to manage to do something special in property-legal relations because, in these corners, we bind our hands and in principle, it's impossible to do something and it's impossible to do in this time before us because we simply didn't get enough stuck in this problem and we didn't start to solve the main problem, and that's the problem of simplifying the laws that are enforceable, the law that we can live under. These laws we now have are certainly not laws by which the state will develop and by which we can live normally. Care of property, putting so much property in one institution, in one body with 100 people and expecting to take care of it all is really illusory. And I think maybe the biggest mistake has been made because in the past period of forming DUUDI as such, it has gone very rough and very ugly times towards a local self-government that is not the enemy of the state, which is a partner in solving the problem. There are several examples in Croatia where state property was able to function and thanks to the local self-government in the first place because it was agile, she knew what to do where to do and if she had the support and if she had been given a hand since before the various agencies as they had already called or offices, today DUDI could have gone. If this was solved from the national level then most of it was not solved, and then we have images that we often see on screens that the roofs are down, that trees grow from objects, that nothing happens to them. And it's not to expect that I'm repeating something important to happen unless we change the management mode, unless we really enable one symbiosis functional at DUDI level -- local self-government and if we don't start doing something like that. But I repeat, if we don't really change a series of laws, then we're not gonna make it because we're blocking once, and there's nothing we can do about it. Here I have a situation and an example right out of practice since I've been mayor for 15 years and we've been the town of Križevci who managed to get in different ways to use and manage the former military. We fought for 10 years so we could do the first steps, mostly in property-legal relations. These are tons of copying and correspondence papers, going to Zagreb to offices, begging, coaxing, searching I don't know what else not to get into a situation so we can get investors to invest. We managed somewhere around 120, 130 million kuna investment to solve in such a single space but today we are struggling with a garland, with a catastrophe to sort out the papers. And today these things aren't solved yet. And we're one of those guys who managed to do something after all. The report also stabbed me a little bit in the eye of that section related to the Immunological Institute where it stated that the only offer for entry into the property of the Immunological Institute was not accepted. Without any great arguments, rather than as sufficient bonuses have not been established. And we had a situation that somewhere around 35, 36,000 citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which was citizens who raised huge capital, huge money and wanted to invest in an Immunological Institute. And today, we've had a session break-up about the Institute of Immunology that's in trouble again. So I can't aliminate both DUUDI and the government of the former government because they probably had a chance and a chance to solve this problem and not have it as a topic today, maybe even be a good example of something new in the Republic of Croatia. I'm going to look back on this fresh, so you see what happens when laws are passed in the Assembly that allow executive authorities no matter what political colors they have been able to make their own decisions without even asking the previous opinion of representatives in the Croatian Parliament who are still elected by citizens. And this is today the 9 companies that are being stripped of the part that are of special and strategic interest and that, in principle, whatever government decides to do with them can be done afterwards. I am not a man who lives in Koprivnica, I do not live in Podravina, I am not a man who is especially related to Podravka, I have no personal interests but I believe that without debate in the Croatian Parliament and giving opinions to the Government it is not normal to discuss the sale of a Podravka as a food industry, as a factory, as a basis of security that in some unloved situations Croatian citizens have something to eat. I think if that's the way we're going to work, then we're doing it very wrong. Unfortunately, one thing I would like to warn you about is that someone would not use this situation for daily political purposes. My feeling is that this is the continuity and continuation of the four-year activities of the current management of Podravka. That Podravka was prepared all the time for exactly what should happen now. I already said today in one replica that the former government, by intervention of 100 million kuna, kept that control stake owned by Podravka and was already going to do so. And no one here can be alimony if something like that happens. I'm not saying as already said here that there are no companies, companies in which shares cannot be sold, I'm not saying that some companies like we've heard already would no longer do better business but Podravka or some other Podravka in Croatia who should have a primary task not to look for that net profit in their account but rather to look for net profits in the accounts of agricultural producers, co-operatives who are now not having that practically such company should have a real state behind them. And that it as such could always function and primarily aim to preserve agricultural production, food production. Unfortunately, Podravka did not repeat it today, she has no co-operatives in Croatia, in Podravka products almost no more Croatian products. That's what made the management of Podravka. The Danica slaughterhouse is closed, the bakery is closed. So she's prepared for what's going on right now. And esteemed colleagues and colleagues I ask you here to be very serious and that we are really not discussing these things in that purely political sense, but in terms of safeguarding national interests because such factories, such productions are strategic national interests. And I don't think that, I wouldn't dare raise my hand if I were any part of some government to sell something like that because it could have long-term serious consequences for the Republic of Croatia. Here, with these few notes and appeals to discuss such topics and to think all together that we are simply not passing laws that allow such things, and that law is called out of the last government not to aliminate ourselves, that we are simply trying to think in a way that we need to keep what we need, which gives us certain security and which gives us some possibility and future development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9447	Thank you. We have six replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9448	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Hrg, you can sell on the market what you're looking for, you can't sell something that isn't attractive and that the market doesn't need. But I agree that there should certainly be an effort in companies such as Podravka to keep the control package, and I think that's because the state has a think somewhere around 24%, there are pension funds, and I certainly should insist and expect that since you are part of the ruling coalition, you will insist that the control package remains. Otherwise tomorrow, Podravka may not have a seat in Koprivnica, but Hungary. This Hungary has come to us through history many times as the heads say, unfortunately. But I wanted the main line when you mentioned the longevity of certain processes. The biggest problem is for us looking for real estate, DUUDI's particular procedures regarding the complexity of the documentation. In particular one example, I've been looking for one 2.5 years or maybe three years a particle is a whole old pond, now they're like fishing waters, public good, a road in nature that's not drawn as a road to build a recreational part of the center. We've been texting for two years, and I'm already a little uncomfortable with the DUUDI services, so give this to the Ministry of Agriculture, give this to the Ministry of Agriculture, supplementing the demands of this. So these are exactly the procedures that should be simplified, made easier on everyone's well-being. So in that part, a large number of working hours would be disbursed by DUUDI employees and we would sooner, or ultimately, which is the goal of the real estate would sooner be available.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9449	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9450	Yes, dear colleague Batinić, you are in the same role I am in the other part, and then you know these problems well. It doesn't matter where the seat is, when you mention it, whether it is being produced around and whether products are being bought, although I prefer the seat where it is most that it is in Croatia and that it is not in Zagreb, but that it is in local self-government, local levels throughout Croatia and not only in Zagreb. But that was often the case. As far as the complexity of the documentation you have been saying, we absolutely agree here, but I said so earlier on, it is an unsettled situation in Croatian legislation. We've got so many regulations intertwined, so many laws, so many regulations that you actually have to explore that you can find a way to go in general. And then when you find a way, you just see all the obstacles on that road. So, in that case, I'm working, too, so I said in a military room that's practically been redeployed for a year and a half, we've been working on some of the objects in that property, a year and a half of it's been going on for a year and it's not over yet. And now let's imagine when we're talking about DUUDI, so as he can do, and there's a huge one, so I'm saying that property management policy has to be changed and local self-government has to be involved to be a partner... And this second part is that if there are 100 people here, maybe it takes 300, so let's get people from other ministries, other bodies, we have situations, we go people, let's get the laws that we can move these people from one ministry to another with the same technical equipment, and we'll speed up the processes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9451	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9452	Dear Mr. Hrg, I have listened carefully to your presentations and I particularly like the conclusion that this problem should be accessed comprehensively and that this report should be monitored together with the State Audit report. And I especially noticed that you pointed out the question of Podravka. What, in your opinion, is what, if you say again precisely, you could have the negative consequences of the total sale of Podravka? And why is it that since the previous government paid about 100 million kuna to keep the control package 25 and something? How is it that, here we hear it now, and I heard in the phone session that now it simply raises the question that it no longer matters, and that it is no longer of particular interest, there is no status of Podravka special interest. So answer me that question. I would just remind the esteemed MPs and MPs here that on 22 January when I voted on the government's trust I was against but I said if it works out well, there's no speech, I'll commend, I'll accept it, I'll correct my opinion. But I'm worried about this today. Because if the telephone sessions are going to change the status of certain Croatian companies that are important then it doesn't matter to me if the prime minister's name is Marko, Zoran, Quiet, Janko, then everything will be questioned and I'll think about what I'm going to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9453	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9454	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Lovrinovic, absolutely that the report should be looked at in context and with the find of the state audit, that is correct. What would be the negative consequences of selling Podravka? So the way I look at it and how I look at Podravka can't be viewed exclusively through profit and gain on its gyro. It must therefore be a practical driver of agricultural production and the organisation of cooperation in the field of the Republic of Croatia. So not only in Podravina where she is, in all of Croatia. There's a drought that's never worked, it's never dried and it's made, so for fruit. There's all kinds of things, but it's about to show a profit. You're an economist, you're an expert person. So 100 million kunas have been injected by the state in order to preserve the stake in Podravka. Today this sub-level shows that there is, I don't know, 130 million net profits. I'd rather she had a profit of 100 grand and there were a thousand cooperatives around her who fed their families and thus made money and kept food production. For me, it's that interest that the state must have and thus manage. And it's amazing that, I said it in the replica, so I'll do it again. When the esteemed Mr. Mršić was placed politically at the head of Podravka and is not a businessman, with all due respect an extremely capable man said, politics out of Podravka. Well, it's a little freakish. And I'm saying that I'm following what's going on, that this is one sequence for me, the planned sequence of actions that's going on.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9455	The next replica is the distinguished representative of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9456	Thank you, Vice President. To me, my colleague Hrg is not a problem that the Government is making a decision on the list of companies, companies and legal entities of special, or strategic interest and what is transferred to the Executive Government. It's not even a problem what she made today at a phone session. In fact, in previous years, the Parliament discussed such a decision. We had a hundred companies that were on such a list so you had such narcissistic things that the production... be of special interest to the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Each of the MPs wanted to put their own company from their territory on that list, which is also not good. I don't think it's a problem for the government to bring it. However, I find it strange that the state office, probably at the request of the government or in cooperation with the government, has opened a tender for advisers to assess which companies will go to privatisation that will remain state-owned. All nine listed companies are on that list. So of those 56, a tender was opened for 54 which were in 2015, so 56, 54 was called... Eight days ago, the contest was closed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which is the speed of work, so in those 8 days, I can only assume that it is but I don't think so, that the elected advisors, that they have done their job and the government has received the answer that in these 9 companies they can go to privatisation without restructuring because as these advisers should assess whether they will go into restructuring or not. And in these 15, 14 seconds sublevel. It should be an engine for agricultural development and some other companies, not just Podravka, others in the food industry. You know as well as I do that in some EU countries an EU cannot own a food industry, for example. in France.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9457	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9458	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues. The problem is, the government's bringing it in. You know if it wasn't a problem. It would not be a problem for the government to argue that the proposal so as to ask the Croatian Parliament and MPs in the Assembly at least to give a preliminary opinion and then make a final decision and such a jet problem. We have also witnessed various decisions in the previous government for the same reasons. Advisers and analysts and analysis, so obviously the trend continues, obviously the trend continues. A colleague Shuker just said on behalf of the club that's what he was talking about, let's put it on the table a little bit, so let's see where the tens of millions spent by the government for various analyses, for the preparation for the sale of HPB, Croatian insurance, Croatian highways, etc. Do you see that it is not good that the Government can bring such things on its own without the Croatian Parliament because if it were in the Croatian Parliament then it would be discussed, the public would be more sensitive with it and it is certain that it could be directed in a better direction. When we talk about food production, I agree in this part absolutely with you. But I don't agree with what's been going on for the past four years. I've said several times here today that I think this is just a sequel to something that's been started and done for four years and as far as your analysis is concerned, analysts, and it's obviously the same consultant in the government that was before.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9459	Next replica, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9460	Thank you very much. A colleague of the pack! I just don't think we can stay here silent about this story with Podravka because we discussed the work of these 4 funds, the mandatory pension fund, we talked about these financial transactions, the injections given by the Croatian Government, and when we consider that the sound economic names in Croatia have been profiled these past years in Podravk. I can't get the impression that all this stuff that's been going on in Podravka for the past four years hasn't been a strategic preparation for this event that's about to happen. However, what I was saying about shipbuilding and railways can also be said about how much money has gone to Croatian agriculture in the past ten years. Is the Minister of Agriculture supposed to give some kind of opinion when it comes to Podravka? I'm not saying that if someone thinks that it will be better and better quality, if it is privatized or if the owner changes, then I don't understand its acquisitions in the region particularly what the acquisition in Ljubljana grain if I'm not mistaken is quite financially professionally questionable. Did we buy what we wanted to buy or at the end of the day if someone brought such a political assessment and assessment but if there was a recapitalisation by the government? If the money inside was injected with mandatory pension funds, then I think we're looking at the balance sheet and we have a clear picture of how much Podravka is worth on the market right now. Because if the government has given 100 million recapitalisations, you have to make a capitalization of something, and you have to give a fat explanation under the Company Act for why you are entering the recapitalisation process. Therefore, the picture of how much Podravka is worth today is clear, how much Podravka has obligations as well. Now the question is, are we going to get more or less from those few desserts or hundreds of millions, that's the elemental question, but I repeat, I don't think the Minister of Agriculture can be left without an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9461	Replica reply, distinguished representative Brako Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9462	Thank you very much. Comrade Shuker, I absolutely agree with you in this part that the Minister of Agriculture must give his opinion and his opinion on it, but it is obvious that this is not so complicated in the acts by which such decisions should be made, and that is where the same problem arises again. As for the pension funds and the debate on them and their share in Podravka, and also in other companies of course, I will say it in such a healthy peasant dictionary. Well, I'm a stockholder of pension funds like all the other people who pay pensions. Maybe we're a little too light in the Croatian Parliament to go over their reports. Perhaps this should be a little more detailed in blood cells as to what is happening and how the money that Croatian citizens pay for their age is spent. And as for these acquisitions you've been talking about, the grains, the buying of cereals, yes, there's a lot of conflicting thinking here, and people from the profession like you said, people who've profiled all these years through Podravka. But I have to say, Podravka is a phenomenon. It's definitely the Croatian phenomenon of the economy. What has been done to her since the creation of the Croatian state I am yet, I do not understand how this factory is still alive and how it has managed to survive. I hope so, and I believe that we will have the strength to force the relevant ones to survive this.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9463	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9464	Thank you very much. A colleague of the pack! First of all, you're not a shareholder of a mandatory pension fund, you're just one member who doesn't have the right to vote. A little correction. You said you weren't sentimentalally involved with Podravka and that no decision was made so important without the Parliament's question. Well, tradition already, it's a long tradition for the government to be underpriced to the Parliament, and in that front those who have no political responsibility to the voters. I'm not sentimental about any subject either, because I'm looking at everything rationally and economically. But I wouldn't have dared decide anything without a thorough analysis and systematic analysis, without the labs with more thesis and supported by arguments both for each and the other and for the third thesis. So which the thesis and which arguments prevail for which such a decision should be made. I'm not against sales either, but it's always a matter of when to sell not only whether to sell or not. As far as the importance of Podravka is concerned, it is impossible to assess the multiplier effects of Podravka on the economy, on co-operatives. There used to be if I wasn't wrong about 7, 8000. A lot less today. But the question arises: how many dairy industry have had cooperatives before sale and how much is there today and how domestic production is in relation to these cooperatives according to the main milk processor and whether we drink milk from powder or from natural milk. Nobody knows that anymore. It's illogical what you said about the director of Podravka, the president of the administration, but he was in conflict of interest because he shouldn't have left the Parliament directly there. And by the way, as far as voting for it, I don't want to raise my hand for it, but I wouldn't dare raise my hand on Podravka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9465	Replica reply, distinguished representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9466	Thank you very much, dear colleague. We've talked about this a lot and in the last term, and thank you for this additional interpretation that I'm a member without the right to vote. That's right. That's a real definition. Yes, and in the previous meeting of the Croatian Parliament, we have often pointed out the problem of relations between those elected by the Parliament. So we're surprised when citizens in one of those underestimating ways talk about parliamentary deputies, and we did it ourselves. We let that happen on our own. But it can still be tolerated while MPs are underestimating in some way, but when such things happen, it can no longer be tolerated, because it is in man and it is hard for you to bear it if you are aware that what is done is not good, that it is harmful and that long-term it will be harmful for our children who are there if they stay alive in Croatia. I hope and advocate always to stay. I agree with an absolute, thorough analysis, a table of all the arguments, so let's see what's best. That's why I don't understand if it's an analysis, so why are you taking down this part now that these are companies of particular interest? I don't understand that. Why didn't we wait for the analysis to be made, to discuss, to see what was going on, so let's see which companies are no longer companies of particular interest. Surely there are, surely there are those who will work better if they are absolutely and 100% privately owned. So, there's a little bit of those steps confusing me a little bit and I doubt... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9467	And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9468	Thank you, esteemed colleague Hrg. You have absolutely my support regarding your debate especially about Podravka and don't give Podravka just like that. That's what I'm telling you from the experience of Baranja, from the experience of privatizing White. So, until before that sale, the whole of Baranja was employed. It was over 20 drives. Whites produced other than meat and tea and produced other things, and we even had the largest pond. And now where we say we have a crib of paprikasha we cook fish with Hungarian fish, because we don't have where, because we don't have our own fish. The plants were sold out after the privatisation. The only thing left is what's interesting about the position of state incentives. Earth, cattle, etc. What's interesting is what's being financed from the state budget. Everything else is sold out and closed down. There are three farms raised for the breeding of sows and pigs, but it is processed in Vrbovac, no more butchers, no more professions in high schools, because there is no need for that. There are 10,000 people on the Bureau since that privatisation was made. And that broader social significance that was White and another White was the collaboration had completely disappeared with that act. That's why I'm telling you this, and it's not good to talk only with the position of numbers. We need to see what such large systems meant for society. If we have a technologist who has to work from Zadar and can't work technologist from Baranja, then let's not be surprised if yesterday 50 buses from Osijek went to Germany for young people, because they have nothing to look for, because they can't get a job or a butcher in Baranja, not a technologist. That's White's privatisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9469	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9470	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Horvath, you're absolutely right. There's nothing to add. It can only get a little bit thicker. So what bothers me is the fact that we want to see the life of a man in Croatia economically. Well, that's amazing! I can't accept that. The life of a man in Croatia is viewed by the economic account whether it is worth living in Baranja, whether it is worth living in Podravina, Međimurje, I do not know the valley of Neretva, anywhere. So what policy is that? And we say that we die, we say that we're getting smaller, that people are leaving, that children are not being born. And we want to put a man in some economic category and say you're worth it or you're not worth it. Who has the right to tell a man that he's not worth it and who has the right to tell a man that he can't live where he wants to live? Who's right? As people in the Croatian Parliament, we should primarily make sure that this life is preserved in every area of the Republic of Croatia, to allow people to live where they want to live and to have the minimum standards they need for life. And we keep doing the wrong thing and the other way around. And it's normal for someone who will privately buy such a single company of course to continue this policy which is currently being done by the management of the Podravka. And there won't be a few thousand cooperatives and there will still be layoffs like there have been in this past 1500 people. People, 1,500 people have been fired from Podravka in less than four years! And nothing to anyone! And we co-owners 25.4%. So did we have to react to that?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9471	Let's move on with the individual debate. It is up to the honourable representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9472	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here's to say something about this report on the implementation of the Governance Plan for the Republic of Croatia for 2015. He says an old saying: “Woe home where there is no master.” And when we talk about the property of the Republic of Croatia... This report kind of reminds us of that, right there and that saying because we're talking today and about stocks, I guess we can indirectly then both about movements and some flying movements. [[You don't understand.]] And it was managed and they were recorded somewhere. But I'm saying, everyone from their own corner and always the way it suits him at a given moment and there goes that debate. We listened in the last term that the system that was so far was no good, no bad, no one. It was supposed to be changed, it was one model. If you don't know how to change your name first, you put something together, you sing something, you attach something and you build something else, you put the first one, and then everything under it, and it went. So we had a fund after the AUDI fund, so now we've got DUUDI and it's started CERRP and then... Five ministers, the government's commission for everything above millions of kuna and we say the governance structure exists. [[You don't understand.]] And we're reading today here's almost 257 pages of what we have to read about anything we want. It's all listed, it's got all sorts of decisions. It all looks great on paper. We have solemnly promised the EU that we will do this effectively and yet it is not a small number of employees, almost 54 000 employees in these societies. And we have everything, and strategy and law and sublaw. However, the impression that this property remains with all of us as a necessary evil that we must simply manage with some kind of trouble and not create any kind of benefit from all of this property for at least whoever owns it, which is the state. And then when it's all that simple, the problems aren't solved. We've often heard the story of dead capital. Perhaps that famous writer, Josip Kozarac, wrote in his book, and I think it is also very applicable to today and the relationship to the processed, unprocessed land, the village-city relationship. I don't think we're far from all these events he writes about. Because what happened to us for the term of office of the last government with that property? Is she worth a lot more? I don't think there's much to talk about, I don't think it's worth it. There have been a number of affairs in the mention of any privatisation, and on the new commission, I saw many decisions of very questionable moral values. 'Cause there's been a lot of stuff going on out there. But we, on the other hand, have a review report that warns about it, but we also have a DORH that doesn't care at all, he's absolutely not interested. Not only that, whatever happened over the past four years, they don't care, they sleep easily. Because the audit says that the simple value of shares and shares in the main one is recorded in 8 companies of 58 of them. So we don't even have all the company. That the recorded value of shares managed by DUUDI is lower by 16.6 billion kuna than that registered in that deposit company, the Central Depository Society. What does the former director say about that? He says it's made up. That the revision doesn't exist, that she doesn't know how to work, that someone invented 16 billion like this, nothing. Who are we bringing in? We're gonna bring that grandmother over there or someone who's in the store I don't know stole gum or something like that, a cookie. That's what we're driving right now. And 16 billion? It's made-up. Something didn't add up. These guys didn't do anything before, so we inherited something, and then we didn't do anything, so something went wrong. And the man goes, nothing to anyone. Then they taught us how to manage state property, and in the course of that teaching, a minister moved from cheaper space to more expensive. Of course the decision is made by the government, all sign, all satisfied, the state pays more than it should. And what would anyone be angry about when it was so much nicer than where it was, I guess, there was too little room. What did the DORH say? We're not interested. Let the money be spent, if it's for the left, it's for the left. The Westgate affair, the famous decision of the commission, written about for 2 years, for 2 years, and the damage of 70 million kuna is mentioned. The DORH, nothing. That's how you manage state property. Who cares? You should've solved the problem probably. Someone solved it, but apparently for the benefit of maybe their own, to the harm of the state. But we have a chance to talk about it here, too, because our institutions, unfortunately, are either staring at this or they don't want to or don't care. I don't know what third might be or fourth? And then we listened parallel to that story about big projects. Says the former director we're going to Project 100, everyone's watching, the media's running, what's what? We sell a hundred properties owned by the state at 20 million squares, just come in, Goli Otok, political school in Kumrovec, military Sibenik, Koprivnica, Karlovac, Virovitica, everything we have. I had a chance to come to him for a meeting and say, "I ask him what you did for that naked island"? Here's the competition called, I say there's 20 of them, I say cool here, so there's an interest, something we'll do there. Did they pay for the quotations of some kind, at least something to participate with some kuna in the state budget when they're already giving a variety of ideas that should be there, that they had no obligation, nothing, that you could e-mail what you wanted to do on the naked island. Well, of course, people are playing around, the idea of the great, the idea of a hundred things are going to be that, anything they could do to make a kuna out of it, and not from the realization of zero, but below zero. That was the way I used to say state property in that past time, and they were all great. And then we wonder where we run out of 16 billion, and it's gone somewhere. How did these outsiders figure out that we're running our property that way. Here's your next affair, it may not be directly related to DUUDI but it is to one ministry. We don't even know whose boxes are supposed to be typed, we pay 2 million euros each, no one knows anything. The SDP has failed to say a single sentence about it. Watch out, that's tens of millions of euros. We send 12 doors to each other. Now, a little bit, I don't know how many of them are trained for flight and we're running... so what kind of way to look at who it is... No one's guilty, no one's responsible, we're not asking anyone anything. Apparently, something has started an investigation, so we'll find out in five years, I guess, what happened. And then to spice it all up in the tenth month of the famous regulation, here's to you gentlemen. When we're one rule, then we're political, we don't need experts or the European Commission, instead of the director of the administration going to the assistants, we put in the administration the way we've shared, and now that we're going to lose the election, we're going to get you a nice regulation, so you're going to have to have management functions for 10 years, and then you're going to have university studies and all kinds of innovations, and then we're going to have some agencies, 200 grand kuna to find you, someone from Djakov to bring it to Rab to you to put it for you as hotel manager or I don't know anywhere. It doesn't matter, we'll evaluate him because the system is completely blocked. And now, of course, we have a story as far away as possible? The way we worked in the tourist sector. The only thing we might have been able to sell was nothing. ...the Maestral hotels, Imperial hotels, three times we announce the competition. Remember, I've often talked about this here, the first price for Imperial 105 million kuna. No one knows who called the competition. After a lot of demands, this one, the one from here, and a little public pressure and it's not 105 anymore, it's 250 now, for 50% of the shares. That's how property was managed. And we can write whatever we want here, and I trust this man here because I know how professional he is and how much he's been doing, but he had to leave as soon as the new power came, because it all fell into place. And now we're going to do something, but here's what we see is that there's going to be big problems as well as any problems, because obviously reform is going to need something more.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9473	Thank you. We have one replica of Honorable Agent Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9474	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Col. Boric, today practically until the HDZ club began to debate no one mentioned the regulation. And I'm glad that you mentioned it because this regulation was not well-intentioned. And the other thing, why did we pass the Law on the handover of power? For the simple reason taught by the experiences of previous reasons that a government that is on its way cannot create obligations to the coming government. But this regulation has a strong connection to what the previous Kukurik coalition did in 2012. It is practically all directors and all supervisory committees appointed in a public tender, and they claimed it was a political public tender, a political appointment deleted. They simply wiped them out at a government meeting and appointed their political counterparts, although in one company that had until then been a member of the administration, it was once necessary to satisfy political affinities to meet five members of the administration. And it will be very interesting to see what kind of contracts are signed with them when they begin to change. What are their rights? Although it was said they came with politics and should leave. However, it definitely blocked this government from putting its people in charge and looking at the business year, realistically looking at all these state-owned companies is business 2016 completed. The old administrations have made contracts, what they wanted and the new administration can come at 7.8 months it can only practically execute what has already been signed and agreed without any possibility of any creation and any change. So much for regulations that are passed with legal force especially at times when the Croatian Parliament does not meet.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9475	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9476	Thank you very much. Comrade Shuker, not only did they deliver the regulation, but they extended their mandates by 6 months in advance to get all this sorted out because they knew what they had done. They were very aware of that. And now we have what we have. And in 2012, it was different. The Prime Minister comes in, writes a letter, circulated to all administrations, and tomorrow we want your resignations on the table. It's done, it's settled. And now we're thinking about changing someone in the administration, and you know it's wrong and you know it's not working and you can't do anything to him. There's nothing you can do for him for a while. You have a regulation. And of course time, and time, and time, we've changed, we've reduced from 10 to 5, here's how much we could and it's all settled. ... Well, yes, of course. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] These are different concept models, state property management. And I hope we don't like what you did, no matter what the problems and everything that happens today. Because I also know a lot of cases, many of us have heard today, let's say a majority-owned company, one director gives himself a concession and his family that he can make a nice living from that concession. Is that normal? Is that a conflict of interest? Can you tell us there since you know it all? So you're the CEO of a company, and you're giving yourself a concession at that same firm so you can make a nice living out of it. Is that okay? Fair enough? Well, it is. And he's still with the SDP, so of course he is. And we just have cases like that from day to day. Not just one, there's more of them out there. And we can have a nice conversation here right now because it's the afternoon, we're a little bit of a different mood, but we have problems left. And I hope to honor the Director, I believe in you and your expertise that we will change a lot of things during 2016 in relation to what you found because I know it's not easy for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9477	Thank you. The last individual debate of the distinguished representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9478	Thank you very much. Mr. Boban, you have a huge responsibility, a responsibility to the management of state property. And is there more responsibility in the field of governance than that responsibility? But also the responsibility of creating trust in one of the most important state institutions. I can't say "reliance" because there's never been a trust, but you have to create it, and it's your job, and I believe you'll do it. My colleague, Boric, was a bit of an inspired poet, so he quoted Kozarca as saying to me, and I was troubled by the analysis of 25 years of state property management, and then while you were talking about how the message was sent to the Croatian people, it reminded me of the songs of the colossal Antun Branko Šimić, "Pooromas of one verse" as telling those about silenced the poor body forgets to eat and eat patience. Make all the poor in Croatia out of how to manage state property. Not only do I not accept this report, but I reject it. And that attitude that every attitude should have arguments like that, and this attitude must be supported by arguments. Here's why. Everything DUUDI does and the way DUUDI does is manifested by a state audit in its findings. And who is responsible and conscientious can support the way state assets are sold as determined by the state audit? Who can support the award of concessions as determined by the state audit? Who can support the rental of real estate under the conditions laid down by the state audit, the way in which the claim is collected, the way in which the claim is not charged, the way in which the loan is taken, and what nobody has mentioned anywhere in the official form, the way in which it is managed, or the care of the surplus property I have heard it seems to me by Mile Horvat today? Imagine that for 25 years in Croatia, no page of the impact report has been drawn up in any of Croatia's reports on the effects, the claim on succession. If no one had mentioned what happened to the financial assets of the surplus belonging to RH 27.4%, I think. That no one will ever mention that in 2001 it disappeared from a joint account in Vienna of 500 million and more dollars of which it belonged to RH billion kunas of today, that there is no sign of it anywhere. Neither who raised it, for whatever purpose, where it was spent and who took it privately and did not take it from the state. If you are systematized there are state audits regarding state property management and you are imported into a book with several notebooks then the title could certainly be, for example, designed damage, economically... Or maybe a state masochism, but it can be another one on that trail. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And why is that? Here's why. ... Lands are granted without compensation to owners permanently, hotel owners permanently in private ownership, without compensation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Land that doesn't make a technological whole, for years these same owners have been using it without compensation, without a contract. And the state office didn't do anything about it. I don't know if there's a concession contract with a tourist company for that part of the land. The same land was not registered by the state as its property. Many camps are owned by unsettled owners without compensation. Mr. Boban, please do something about Camp Down in Life. It did not enter the basic capital of a tourist company, it belongs to the state, register ownership of it. That's 100,000 square meters on the beach of sand. And they've been using this for 25 years illegally second and the state owns it and the municipality of Podgora pays everything for the deposited land of fines and the municipality's jury account is blocked, please keep that in mind and solve this case as soon as possible. Many companies have registered on property or land without owners, but have not entered their core capital. How possible and which courts allowed it to happen when no one to whom this property had not entered and many registered as owners had failed to register without the property statement. Nine billion kuna is not invoiced for concessions and how much is not yet charged and invoiced for concessions. All these are the findings of the State Audit, so-called The university hospital is a paradigm of state property management. We expect in the next report at least a hint of what you're going to do with it because it's time and I believe that you first do something about it. How was 93 thousand 772 Kraš shares sold? By making a deal under the counter the last days of the former government. And by the price below the market price, you know it well, that's what your DOUDI did, or with the DUDI's consent. How is the Kupar concession, what is the concession of Zagreb Airport? Would you please stop for a minute? Concession of Autocest Zagreb-Macelj, concession Bina Istria, rent Eurotower, you have in the findings of the State Audit all, these are all targeted levers in the Croatian future. These are examples of national damages, a couple of excellences and in the report under the heading, in this report under the heading of restructuring. It is said that Cerp is a bankruptcy believer in 36 companies with a total claim of 681 million applications under the restructure title. From earlier bankruptcy Cerp only charged two million kunas by 2015. The bankruptcy is just bankruptcy and nothing else, bankruptcy is not restructuring, and this report says under the head restructuring. Cerp has a billion 270 million kunas of unpaid claims and had a billion and 600 million. However, he did not charge the difference but either write it down or transfer it to claims but did not charge it. The Cerp even asks its company for state property and what it points to is chaos and not systematicity, and I don't know if it makes any sense to have an organization like it is now, DUUDI, Cerp, state property, I'll dare say it's pointless, but deny me if you think otherwise. The state-owned real estate in 2014 did not collect 6 million kuna claims and in 2015 additional 5 million kunas, 11 million kunas of unpaid real estate claims. There has been a lot of talk here about the government's famous decision under conditions, the procedure for selecting members and supervisory committees, the Regulation on criteria for implementing the selection process for members of the Supervisory Board. It says this provision, one of the choices is carried out on a proposal from the relevant ministry, with the agreement of the DUDI through a public tender or under the means of a specialised agency which can also be selected in... competition. Well, that's great. That's why we don't have surveillance boards for six months or boards, incomplete administrations, because this is actually the government's regulation with the lying cops. She put obstacles on the highway. This is actually just a paralyzing regulation. And this regulation should not be changed, abolished as urgently as it is not logical nor normal for one to bear responsibility and for the other to have authority. The powers and responsibilities must be matched. The responsibility of those who have been chosen, this is really excessive.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9479	Watch out, don't interfere with the representative in the presentation. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9480	The independent agencies will not be elected by members of the Supervisory Board and of the Management Board, nor shall they be allowed to. The responsibility is for those who went to the elections and let the independent agencies and these independent experts form lists, go to elections and then manage these state-owned enterprises and institutions. They're a blockade, and they can't bear the responsibility and they can't hold the authority. It needs to be changed urgently and this government regulation is actually a lever stuck in its own leg that needs to be taken out of its leg so that we can walk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9481	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is the distinguished representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9482	Dear colleague Maric. We've heard again a whole series of interesting data that you've presented about how the government's assets are mismanaged. Well, even in the former state, it wasn't so managed, socially called property, yet people took responsibility, some went to prison, and today we don't see anything or anything about it. I like what Mr. Boric said earlier, that there is no master of good, so here is Mr. Boban, I see it another time, we don't know each other, but I really appeal to you, you have a huge task to make out of that one, so don't mind what you do system and please make it nice. We're talking about this today is a decision at a phone session to sell these companies eventually, and here we've seen a whole series of examples of how many billions of kunas can be saved in quality management of existing state assets. So this is one split situation. And what you said to Dr. Maric was not a regulation that allowed no one to prevent the new government from bringing a new regulation and undoing it before. So, not to cancel, but to bring. So the problem was the government's procedure, and it's not too late to do it either. I want to know what you think about it when you say it. We have 12 million, 10 million kuna is paid for salaries in DUUDI, and 12 million kuna for services in 2015 and they have increased more than 100% compared to services compared to 2014. Do you consider the decision to sell such forms of property as Podravka, ACI etc. He can make it without the Parliament's decision. And beyond that, this Parliament, do you think this Parliament must finally make a decision on what it is strategic property. So I'm just going to give you one example. He's a sick person. We could say he's no strategic, only that he's a problem. He's strategic property in my opinion. So we haven't cleared up with that sort of thing here. The citizens need to know this, and we have a lot of responsibility for everything that's going on. Here's your answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9483	Replica response, distinguished representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9484	Thank you very much. Here's just the first thing you said about the regulation. Article 2 says, condition, one of the conditions of candidates completed at least a graduate university study of appropriate professions or specialist graduate studies. First of all, if something is the least, then it's defined which is the least. But this is the least two things that aren't the same. You can't compare a specialist study, professional with the smallest graduate university study. It is enough to write the least graduate professional study, then it is understood that the doctorate and the master's degree and the university's studies are sufficient. No, it's about deliberately equating what's inequitable. Secondly, by saying that the regulation needs to be abolished immediately, not to change it. Not only should the supervisory boards be those who have previously ruined those same institutions because they are prescribed to have the same conditions. As regards state property management, there is another additional obligation, property of local and regional self-government. So, Mr. Boban is a terrible responsibility, but first of all, an organisational change in how to set up a administration, how to divide the property. So it's not equal to managing shares and real estate, it's not the same to manage real estate that's ready, in function, it's functional and fully dysfunctional real estate. Well, it's not the same thing as that. University hospital in Remetec and Croatian Parliament building. It's so abandoned, I don't know if anyone has a more responsible job in the state in terms of management than Mr. Boban. As for strategic decisions and businesses, I think it's normal if something strategic can't become non-strategic overnight, then it wasn't strategic. So I'm not up for any sudden change, because they can't be good at all. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9485	Another replica, the esteemed representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9486	Thank you very much. A colleague named Maric, related to the regulation. You say a lying cop. And worse than that, because in some public enterprises, let's say one has almost 10,000 employees. Recently, the court appointed, so he put in a V.D. Director until a new one is selected because all deadlines are up and there's nothing you can do about it that's completely blocked. 10,000 employees. And then, here's the regulation, and we're looking for agencies now to bring in someone they think they think, and we're paying for it not a little bit, 200,000 kunas of choice. Great! And we have also witnessed such examples in the former term where, for one of the leaders, mail brings you someone who sold soap and then you have what you have. What does the post office turn into? For example, the Croatian Post Office no longer knows how to carry a letter from point A to point B. But that is why we do know how to sell various products and everything, all the anger of people who do not get what they have to get at exactly who brings it to him. And they'll probably come to us again, because it's just some fate we've got mapped out. And as you did here are two examples. The consultants for the privatisation of the Croatian Post Bank, not a small amount, tens of millions of kuna. Nothing was privatized, money paid. Nice way to get the money from the state budget. It's a highway monetization. Nice way. We've been talking about it for four years, in 17 seconds at the government, we give up, we spend tens of millions on consultants, and that's what people in the ministry could do because they were taking their data and someone got rich. It was these great intellectuals in a fine way, and his system was subject to and designed to reach public debt of nearly 300 billion. And when you ask them what you paid for, they say we don't remember anything anymore, we're opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9487	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9488	Thank you very much. A fellow Boric, whom the public will call and the citizens if one of these state-owned companies does not operate, if bad business is done, if it is a crime. First of all, we're on impact. And do we have anything to do with that? We don't. Can we influence anyone there who will be on the board of directors? We can't. And you know who goes to the board of directors? The Supervisory Board is first of all a matter of trust from the owner. So whoever owns the trust is sent to the board of directors. And it's just going to be the one who's most capable of managing. What's going on here? Yeah, someone, for example, by law, I'm at the DABA State Insurance Agency for Saving Deposits and Bank Rehabilitation. No board of directors, no administration, nothing's working, and now we have to wait six months for the consulting company to choose the board of directors. More will change the law, let the chairman of the Committee on Finance and Budgets from the Administration be removed from the law and then they will bring it in, but while I am in the administration, the agency will not decide who will be in the management and supervisory board of the Croatian Bank or other institutions that the DAB determines. No, they won't! Let them change the law and then throw out the board president, then I can bring it, but I'll stand up to it. Well, it's scandalous, it's nakaradic, it's unacceptable, it's politically and socially unacceptable. And we have to stand up to that. I will, and I hope you will, too. So look, the Croatian Post Bank can't change, there's a mess, there's a terrible mess. It's bad business, you can't change management, you can't change the board of directors. And it's Mr. Boban's answer to how the H.P.B. does business. I answer how the Adriatic Bank operates, how the Croatian Bank operates. FINA doesn't have a board of supervisors at all. Is that normal? HBOR doesn't have a monitoring board, everything's blocked. Our country is blocked, the state is not functioning because of a regulation that someone has designed in the interests of third parties, not in the interest of the Croatian people. That's why I called that regulation a self-paralyzing provision and lying cops. That's mildly said, dear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9489	Thank you. We've exhausted the debate with this. Final address, Your Honor, Mr. Tomislav Boban, DUDI's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9490	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the honourable parliamentary deputies and parliamentary deputies, I'll only have five sentences for a short time. Thank you very much for a very constructive discussion. Most of the discussion was about what was waiting for me, which is to present the 2016 Plan that was to be adopted by 30 October of last year but has not been adopted and here because in the meantime we had a budget and all these changes that were going on I expect that somewhere, even during this month, we will be dealing with the 2016 State Office Plan. I'm very glad you detected the problems in DUUDI and not only in DUUDI, but also in CERRP and state properties. I'm not happy here. I think that the AUDI MP asked for my personal position on the DUUDI, and I have to tell you honestly in this High House that I was very, very sad and unhappy when AUDI was transformed into these three organizations because I think that with AUDI, we made a good step towards something that led to the better and that they can make decisions faster and that we can act constructively and that, at the end of the day, employees who worked at AUDI can work on a series of works. You have a situation today to solve corporate governance in DUUDI, corporate governance and in CERRP, real estate is also dealt with in DUUDI, real estate is also solved in state properties and it is simply not possible to break or cross employees. A few serious issues today are open, mostly military issues. I like to call military or ex-unspective military mines a mine where we really don't know what's still in place and what's in store for us. Here's all we're gonna do is try to find out the treasure as soon as we can and put it into operation. There will certainly be co-operation with local self-government, and there has been cooperation with local self-government, and we will allow them to meet their needs through education, through social education, through health care, by putting the former military office into office. Someone also touched the former or tourist land. In 2009, I raised the issue of tourist land in Pula. So, Pula has had illegal since 22 Camp 21. So 21 camps in the area of the former Pula Municipality worked illegally. People used it nicely, didn't even pay the residence tax. And that's where we're headed to clear things up, but even someone got fired when he touched that hornet's nest. I'm not thinking about myself. So, this job is waiting for us, not just for Life. My life was at my office today, so we're working it out. But we also need to solve a number of other problems where Croatian property is used unlawfully and without compensation. Here, thank you again for your constructive debates. I will try with a plan to predict the answers to these questions that have been asked today, and by the way, to tell you in preparation is to amend the Law on State Property Management. This is how I predicted, so in the first six months I'd make an amendment to the law and make business flow. And then at the end of the year, let's deal with the real reorganisation of DUUDI, CERRP and state property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9491	Thank you, Mr. Boban. I'm closing the debate. Tomorrow at 9.30 we proceed with point 2. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials of State. Have a nice rest of the day! Session adjourned at 17.35 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-11-0.u9492	Next, a report on the implementation of the Property Management Plan owned by the Republic of Croatia for 2015. The report is submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Justice Committee, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the implementation of the Property Management Plan owned by the Republic of Croatia for 2015 is not accepted". Please vote. I'm asking for a result. 82 for, 1 abstention, 38 against. I find that most of the votes have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the Justice Committee.
