ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11551	Honorable MPs and MPs. I thank you for allowing us to present this House of Commons a report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for 2015. The reason why the annual report for the first time in eight years has not been filed by Ombudsman Anka Slonjšak is the end of the term of office before this session is held. And the procedure for selecting a new lawyer for disabled persons is not complete. The presentation of the report by the Ombudsman herself has meaning not only because of the visibility of Anka Slonjšak, by the clarity of the messages, the power of belief that equality and dignity of persons with disabilities are feasible but also because of its proactive action in the design of a social environment according to the human rights model. The report shall show the position of persons with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties on the basis of their complaints to the Advocate General, the insight that the Ombudsman has acquired through a tour of the premises in which they are located, educated, treated or worked by persons with disabilities as well as the conduct of survey trials. In 2015, the Ombudsman handled 1745 complaints in order to protect human rights persons with disabilities, which is 20% higher than the year before. The largest number of addresses to the Ombudsman in 2015 as well as earlier years referred to the area of social care, second place was work and employment, followed by pension insurance, education and accessibility. In the course of the 672 complaints against a violation of law, it was found that in 219 cases or 33%, there was a violation of the law or the Constitution of guaranteed rights, or convention rights. Cases in which we have not established a breach of the applicable laws point to the fact that existing legal solutions do not meet the needs of persons with disabilities or respond to the challenges they face. The Ombudsman referred 96% more recommendations and warnings to local self-government units, state authorities and other legal entities compared to the previous year. On the basis of 10 surveys and surveys conducted and the tour of 49 premises in which they reside, work or educate persons with disabilities, the Ombudsman sent a total of 65 opinions or proposals for amendments and additions to the regulations. Of which, there were 17 proposals on its own initiative. The data that remains the largest number of complaints made by persons with disabilities in the field of social protection indicate a threat to their standard of living. According to the Croatian Institute of Public Health, about 18% of people with disabilities live in conditions of poverty, which is more than the general population. The figures on the reduction of disability-based benefits indicate that savings measures are being implemented in the poorest and most vulnerable population. The number of users of compensation for assistance and care in 2015 was reduced by 6514 users compared to 2014. And the number of disabled persons has been reduced by 329 users. The purpose of these fees is to meet the needs arising from disability and involvement in community life. We advocate an approach in which personal disability will be to receive whose purpose will indeed be to involve a person in life and to meet the needs arising from disability. And as such completely independent of any other person's income which is not the case now. According to the December 2015 data, the right to the status of parents of carers and carers was used by 3476 persons. We believe that this right should be redefined and put in place the right of a person with disabilities to stay in the family and personal choice. The current legal provision does not allow the expansion of the circle of users of this right in situations where it provides the best care and respects the right to choose. In 2015, the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities took part in a constructive dialogue between the UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Government of the Republic of Croatia as an independent mechanism for monitoring the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The final observations of the UN Committee are shown in this report individually in areas related to certain articles of the Convention. Such an outside view of the system of protection of persons with disabilities through the prism of human rights has shown that what Croatian legislators generally consider a good system of care for people with disabilities is still far from the standards that would really allow people with disabilities to achieve their human rights and dignity. The Committee also highlighted the urgent recommendations through which it requested that the Government of the Republic of Croatia take swift measures within the year. Emergency recommendations refer to the difficult situation in institutions where people with disabilities are located, to stop unsolicited treatments and to stop them and to the legal abolition of unconditional sterilisation without the free and informed consent of disabled persons. Forced hospitalisation and enforcement of measures in Croatia are allowed and regulated by law. There is no awareness that such actions violate the personal integrity of a person and, in many cases, constitute a humiliating act. Experts and individuals themselves seem to feel that forced treatment is justified by medical conditions. In reality, the Advocate General has not developed any different ways of helping the situation with the social crisis. The Ombudsman warns people with disabilities that hospital forms of treatment for persons with mental impairment and institutional forms of care continue to prevail. Therefore, the need for an unsustainable twist through the establishment of a system outside the hospital and outside the institutional forms of treatment and care is imposed. In addition to the Ombudsman's law on persons with disabilities, the Ombudsman has also acted under the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination and the Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation under which he has been given special authority since 1.1.2015 to verify accommodation without consent in psychiatric institutions in all cases when written consent for accommodation is given by a legal representative. During the period covered by this report, the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities acted in a total of 97 complaints on disability discrimination. In 18 cases, the Advocate General identified the suspicion of discrimination and took measures to combat discrimination under the Discrimination of Discrimination Act. The most common form of discrimination was the failure to make reasonable adjustments particularly in the areas of access to goods and services in employment and labour, education and social protection. The fundamental assumption for the inclusion and participation of children with developmental difficulties and disabled persons in all areas of human activity is to ensure accessibility elements, which implies adaptations depending on the needs of a person, e.g. Not only for persons with physical impairment but also visual impairment, hearing and accessibility of easily understood information for people with intellectual and mental impairment. The number of 97 accessibility complaints speaks of accessibility as a basic prerequisite for achieving all health, education and employment rights. As far as 69 complaints were concerned, infringements of the rights related to accessible housing, lack of accessibility of public purpose buildings, improper parking and abuse of the right to access and use of services in road and rail transport. Despite years of recommendations, we continue to believe that it is necessary to change the responsibility of the Ministry of Health at the Ministry of the Interior in order to better implement the rules on accessibility. One of the research we conducted was about the accessibility of courts where we requested data from 48 courts, municipal and criminal. According to data obtained from a total of 36 buildings in which the courts operate, 15 have an affordable entrance for people with disabilities and 41% and access to the rooms located on the floor is secured in only 9 buildings or 25%. A sanitary node adapted to disabled persons exists in 5 buildings or 13% while they are in the course of adaptation. Of the courts that only appeared in the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb there are tactile lanes for blind people. Following the processing of the data, the results are together with the recommendation addressed to the Ministry of Justice as the competent authority for the provision of financial means to ensure the accessibility of judicial authorities to persons with disabilities and are requested and the data to be taken into account in the observed deficiencies. With architectural accessibility, it is a particular challenge to ensure access to justice in its procedural part especially for people with intellectual and psychosocial difficulties. Police officials and social workers should give their testimony to the faith that is given to other reliable witnesses. The types of reasonable adjustment should be considered before the trial. We have also examined the accessibility of shelters, i.e. counselling centres for the accommodation of disabled persons as victims of violence. On the basis of the received answers from 16 organisations, associations, homes, safe houses, there is only one shelter and counselling facility fully accessible to all persons with disabilities, while for other organisations it is accessible or shelter or counselling or only partially or entirely. People with a higher level of support needed as victims of domestic violence are placed in a more unfavourable position from the aspect of the accessibility of the facility, but also from the aspect of providing the necessary support. A number of complaints especially from the midways away from larger centres such as Imotska krajina, Slavonia, Banovina and the island talk about the inaccessibility of the necessary physical therapy and medical rehabilitation services for children with neuro-developmental disorders and other difficulties, as well as adults with disabilities. Some institutions, as providers of these services, point out the default of providing services to users living in remote areas. As a significant problem, we cite the inaccessibility of adequate dental protection for people with disabilities and children with developmental disabilities, and several months of waiting for the necessary procedures to violate their fundamental right to health and thus the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The rules on orthopaedic and other aid shall put individual with disabilities in an unfavourable position with regard to age or educational status. For example, it also denied the right to free electronically increase to impaired persons or batteries for hearing aids if they are older than 18 years of age or if they are not regularly educated. This kind of treatment, i.e. provisions, encourages the exclusion of adults, unemployed, low-income employees of pensioners and others. Despite continued warnings of the need to establish a systematic early intervention in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia, the progress is minimal, as is the case with complaints received from parents of children with developmental difficulties and associations that suggest the absence of an early intervention system, diagnostics and psychosocial rehabilitation of children with developmental risk and developmental difficulties in certain areas of Croatia. In areas where there is no segment aimed at the needs of a child with developmental difficulties, basic rights to health and prevention of disability are violated. How do you react to complaints like this? Which ministry is responsible, what level of government, which institution? Responsibility lies on everyone. Most of the county states that they are aware of the needs of the development of services for children with developmental difficulties from the earliest age, and express their readiness to take over all obligations, but with previous decentralisation of funds. They consider that service standards as well as process holders should be regulated by the state through a health care system. In many areas where the services of civil society organisations are lacking, they are becoming providers of these essential services. However, due to the insecure project financing, they cannot provide adequate quality or continuity, and many are threatened with closure due to the reduction of budget resources financing needed rehabilitation programmes and projects. We have been warning all levels of government since 2010. Finally, at the beginning of 2013, the Interresor Working Group was formed on our initiative with the purpose of making systematic solutions at the level of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the status of the Centre for Autism. At the end of 2014, there was no visible result of their work, and in May 2015 we submitted a special report to the representatives of the Croatian Parliament on the protection of the rights of persons with autism and disturbances from the autistic spectrum with the recommendation that the Assembly as the most legislative body ensure, in accordance with its powers, the adoption of concrete decisions and the taking of concrete activities in order to ensure appropriate and systematic care for children and adults, and to continue without delay with the realization of all the activities started. The prosecution's complaints speak of harsh violations of children's rights with developmental difficulties in education. Specific educational institutions are not provided for in strategic documents as a form of education to be abandoned. The Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities expresses concern that such segregating education is not considered a form of discrimination. Not only do schools refuse to implement the law mandatory adaptations to child's needs, but they announce their failure only because of disability. The Committee also voiced concern that a large number of people with disabilities do not have primary education and less than 30% have completed high school and is also concerned with the absence of measures to ensure reasonable adjustments for students with disabilities in the education system. Today we are still witnessing serious obstacles to inclusive education and education of children and young people with disabilities at all levels of preschool education through primary school, high school or higher education. Without inclusive education, which includes all aspects of support from assistance, transport, adaptation of space, textbooks, aids, educated teachers and others, or systems aimed at individual needs of children with disabilities, there is no real commitment to inclusive society and full involvement of persons with disabilities in the field of work and social life. The UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities particularly highlighted the efforts of the Republic of Croatia in achieving a higher employment rate, saying that it praised the legal changes made to the basis of which the quota employment obligation was extended to all employers. In 2015 it was the period of verification of the effectiveness of the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities adopted in 2014. During 2015, 2613 persons with disabilities were employed as much as 39.21% compared to 2014. According to an eyewitness of employees and self-employed persons with disabilities who run the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute on 31.12.2015, 11 822 persons with disabilities were employed in Croatia, which is an increase of 15.86% compared to the previous year. On 31.12.2015, 8530 holders of quota employment were registered. 2531 in the public sector and 5999 in the private sector. Out of the total number of quota employment holders in both the public and private sectors, only a third of them meet this legal obligation, and only 130 employers have been identified as substitute quotas. When talking about people with disabilities, we should not ignore 88 586 people with professional inability to work whose average pension is 1729 kuna. Out of the total number of them, 7243 are working relationships. We believe that it is a significant potential that could be activated by a professional rehabilitation system. In 2015 it was the first year of application of the Law on the Single Body of Art. Of the complaints received in this section, the most common complaint was the longevity of the art process itself. The Regulation on art methodologies, except that it is more demanding in application, does not define the time limits within which the skills must be carried out, resulting in an untimely exercise of the rights in certain areas. The unique body of art was faced with an inheritance of 8800 unfinished art items taken from bodies where the art was conducted by the end of 2014 which, with inadequate spatial and personnel conditions, also reflected the quality of art. A major obstacle to the independent lives of people with disabilities in the community and which is still the reason for their separation of the facility is a dramatic lack of tailored housing and support services. The biggest task is in front of local communities that need to assume the obligation to build an accessible environment and transport for all their citizens without segregation of persons with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties. According to a statistical report from the social policy ministry and young people for December 2015, 7901 persons with disabilities were singled out in social care homes, and another 4068 is situated in foster families most often in rural areas. This means that the estimated number of our citizens did not exercise the right to live in the community, but because of their disability they are forced to live in homes of social care. The UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities expressed concern that not all institutions such as smaller private institutions of the long-term care department in psychiatric institutions and foster families for adults are covered by the deinstitutionalisation plan. The complaints we received from different parts of the country concerned the lack of necessary services by ensuring that a person with disabilities could stay in his own home or in his own family. The lack of a network of services and support for social inclusion is particularly affecting people with a higher degree of physical disability. One of the most significant forms of support for an independent life of a disabled person is a personal assistant service. Not even a multi-year warning by the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities resulted in the adoption of a law that would regulate, inter alia, personal assistant services or all forms and all types of assistance that would be provided primarily in terms of type and severity of disability and the needs of a person for appropriate support. In 2015 as well as in previous periods, we collaborated with civil society organisations, alliances and associations of persons with disabilities who in certain areas are the only providers of services of primary importance for children with developmental difficulties and persons with disabilities, thus carrying out those activities that are not provided by the state. One of the biggest challenges is the lack of their continued systemic funding. Following recent years, the situation of people with disabilities is evident that some changes in legislation that directly affect the lives of people with disabilities and their families do not make the desired progress but rather put them in an even more difficult position. In the context of a multi-year crisis, people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties are indirectly affected when members of their families are left out of work, making fees for disability costs in such situations rarely become the only income for the whole family. Despite numerous warnings from the Ombudsman, instead of making it easier for people with disabilities to be active members of society to be punished if they are employed by withdrawing the amount of personal disability from 1250 kuna. Such shortfall does not bring savings to the state in the long term, and it makes it clear to people with disabilities that the faith of society in the equality and ability of persons with disabilities remains purely declarative. Denying timely health services has the effect of short-term savings in the health system but consequently leads to disability or deterioration, which long-term requires expensive treatment and therapy. The state and units of local and regional self-government should set clear criteria for the distribution of funds and direct them to those associations that have taken over the role of the state in providing the necessary support services without which there is no equality of persons with disabilities. This is the mobile support of family experts, personal assistance, teaching assistance, tailored transport, support in work and leisure. People with disabilities are not the subject of institutions and the job of experts, they are our neighbors, colleagues at work and at school, friends of our children in kindergartens of the state must provide them with mobile teams of experts, assistants, removing architectural barriers but it is up to us to open ourselves to different abilities and accept them in our midst as equal, to learn about the ways in which they operate, live and create. Thank you very much for your patience and listening.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11552	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused several replicas. She is the first to be the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11553	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. The deputy presented a quality summary of this report, but I'm reporting for the reason I'm sorry Mrs. Slonjak didn't have the opportunity. I'm reporting because as chairman of the Health and Social Policy Committee in the past period, I've had exceptional cooperation with Mrs. Slonjak. And in fact, this cooperation shows how our committees should function. The work of the committee in this House is an underrated and just an example of everything we have done through round tables, thematic sessions and working meetings with Mrs. Slonjak shows how Parliament can solve the problems of all the people involved in the work of this Parliament. Therefore, as former chairman of the Committee on Health and Social Policy, I would like to thank Mrs. Slonjak, who is here for everything she has done to make the work of the Assembly Committee and this Assembly truly the way it should be and for the benefit of all citizens of this Republic. Thank you, Mrs. Slonjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11554	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11555	Thank you very much. I am also sorry that there is no one here who is most responsible for this report and I hope that Mrs. Slonjšak will choose and that she will continue to do this extremely important job. I would only refer to one part of the report that is related to the employment of persons with disabilities. The fact is that the Law on Employment of Persons with Disabilities is a law that has made progress in employment, on the other hand, it is a law that finally allowed Croatia to employ more persons with disabilities. So I am pleased that the Ombudsman has responded very clearly and very firmly to the idea of employers and government as much as the Ministry of Labour and the pension system can see to abolish quota employment. And that would be a crime to people with disabilities. So here's another commendation of firmness and I hope that strength continues in the second term. We hired as you said 40% more people with disabilities but on the other hand we have finally available funds that will allow people with disabilities to have affordable jobs, to have affordable environments because there are more than 200 million kunas in that account paid by employers who have failed to meet the quota, but these funds are returning to them again. And I think we should work together on that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11556	She will respond to the esteemed Deputy Attorney General for Persons with Disabilities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11557	Dear ladies and gentlemen of parliament, President of the Assembly, employment is one area for which Croatia received the only, almost the only area for which Croatia was praised by the UN Committee for the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. It would be a great, great shame to give up the legal obligation of quota employment, and in the past few months, we have witnessed reactions in public by employers' representatives and have witnessed some demands to abolish the obligation. I think it should be pointed out that people with disabilities must be observed that those who, despite their difficult disability, can do certain jobs if we provide them with adequate support and adjust their working conditions and jobs and adjust their ways of doing tasks. Therefore, what is important for each country, and so is the Republic of Croatia, is that we advocate that persons with disabilities be those who build a Croatian society, who will work, pay taxes and contributions and ensure a better position not only of themselves but of the social community as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11558	Thank you very much. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Gordana Rusak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11559	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. From a series of problems the lady mentioned, I'd point out the one that seems alarming to me, which is the fact that we don't have a lawyer for people with disabilities right now. The explanation that the procedure has not been completed is actually what is catastrophic. I ask that this procedure be brought to an end urgently, and I believe that the crisis we have is not amnesting us from responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11560	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Goran Dodig. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11561	The problem of people with disabilities is definitely one of the most complex problems facing a particular society. And according to the relationship, to people with disabilities, I think the degree of civilization of a particular society is also measured. It's clear to me that in your report you covered everything, but in that comprehensive display, and it wasn't possible otherwise. But you also mentioned something that somehow stuck my ear, which is the forced hospitalization of psychiatric patients. What seems to me is insufficient knowledge of this issue, in principle we can agree with what you said, but this problem has led to the fact that in Croatia there have been a lot of recent months or a year of controversy over whether some people are forced to be hospitalized with law or not. I have to tell you that there is legislation that precisely regulates it and actually people are forced to act under these legislative frameworks. I will only mention to you the fact that when representatives of the European Union in charge of this problem came to Croatia and studied the problem, you know what they resented that we have too little forced hospitalization. So forced hospitalisation in Croatia is less than in other countries. For example. I've seen it done in America. That's where psychiatric patients go to the fire department and the police, not the doctor. I want to tell you that I accept your report, but I would ask you that different types of disability leads to different consequences, all in one category is declared very dangerous. It's not a person who's blind or a psychiatric patient. So I advise you on a well-intentioned basis, try to involve people who will deal with a particular problem within this general problem, and I think there will be much less problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11562	Thank you. The Honorable Mira Pekec-Princević, deputy attorney for people with disabilities, will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11563	Thank you very much and thank you Mr. Representative for this matter. Namely, when we wrote about this part of the report of treating psychiatric patients or persons with mental disorders, we gave a special emphasis on the protection of their human rights and respect for their human integrity and their dignity. This has been the focus of our work in the past year and can be read exhaustively about people with mental disorders or what the convention calls them persons with mental impairment in our full report, where some interesting examples are also mentioned. In fact, I also pointed out in the opening statement that we are the first time since 1.1.2015, so that is when the new Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation entered into force. We have first received special authority under this law and it is a verification of the eligibility of accommodation without consent in cases where a person alone is unable to give consent, voluntarily but on its behalf written consent submitted by its legal representative. The Advocate General is just like the protection mechanism in accordance with Article 33(2). The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is the one who has established that duty to verify and control such actions and in cases where the consent to accommodation is granted by a legal representative. When you mentioned the questions of forced hospitalization, I also stated that it was allowed by law, regulated by our law and also that there are, that many experts, including those with mental impairment, believe that there are such conditions in which the enforcement of measures is forced or forced hospitalisation is justified. However, that Croatia should be in that part, going further in terms of the protection of human rights of persons with mental impairment is something that is also the starting point of the new Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation. And of course, there's absolutely a lot to build, a lot to learn and a lot to educate. I think I may have answered your question if in part, however, but I will also mention that the UN rapporteur when she was visiting Croatia last year and when she had, among other things, exposure and in the Government of the Republic of Croatia has noted that according to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, even forced hospitalisation is not allowed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11564	Thank you. And the last replica of the distinguished representative of Blaženko Boban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11565	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Deputy Attorney General, first of all, allow me to express my satisfaction with the work because it is indeed the only lawyer who has been in the field in my 11 years of work in the local administration, the only one of all the attorneys. I have that kind of information from other local colleagues, and thank you very much. What was a fence, which is my one fence, one remark, not on your report but which should be regulated legally by the Law on the Construction of Local Budgets, as regulated for sport, for culture, for the Red Cross so that a certain percentage of local budgets are set aside for persons with disabilities or for persons with disabilities who are located in a specific local community. So there would be no possibility within the local community budget itself if it were to be brought down to the will of local mayors, rather than that it was simply a legal obligation for a certain percentage to be allocated for such a purpose within the local budget. And secondly, the only thing I can do in some way is not to blame you but to say, really, this legal framework that exists for hiring people with disabilities at local levels, so I'm going to say so simply and show the local communities that have never done so in accordance with the law. In some ways, forcing them to and in this way must simply respect the well-being of persons with disabilities and associations who are indeed inexhaustible and work for such persons and in some ways remain the only ones in the areas of certain local communities in the wind in the fight with bureaucratic and others I would say so to the obstacles that are on their way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11566	Thank you very much. Here will be answered by the esteemed Mrs Mira Pekač-Princević, Deputy Advocate for Persons with Disabilities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11567	I thank Mr. Representative on this issue and this open area, I would say, we have been through not only in the past year but for years warning that certain needs of persons with disabilities are not met in many areas of the Republic of Croatia and that there is indeed a problem in the environments that are less developed and that cannot finance certain, very important programmes, rehabilitation programmes that are being taken over by associations. In fact, in recent years, associations have been dependent solely on the project funding that we know and in the past year has been drastically reduced and there is indeed a great danger and fear that many people with disabilities will be left without the necessary rehabilitation programmes or support programmes that are currently provided by only associations in certain areas of Croatia because the state does not otherwise ensure that these extremely important needs are met by persons with disabilities and children with developmental disabilities. That's why we also think and support this way that maybe the funds that are intended for the needs of disabled people to dislocate at local levels that can best be distributed to those who need them most. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11568	Thank you very much. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? Yeah. Dear Chairman of the Committee on Health and Social Policy, Dr. Ines Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11569	Your Honor, your Honor, your honors. I would like to thank the attorney-general here so far for the disabled and this short period of time that I am chairman of the Committee that cooperation has been at an extraordinary level and I hope that it will continue. I am sorry that it is not organised that technical services have not organised that she can submit this report because you need to hear her, what she is saying, then it is quite clear to you that she knows this issue well, and she is very familiar despite her, in spite of her, high disability, completely keeping this story under control about people and it can actually be seen from this report that has practically 300 pages and which should really be read. Therefore, the Committee on Health and Social Care and Social Policy held this report at its meeting as a parent committee. The opening argument was submitted by the Ombudsman herself to persons with disabilities by introducing members of the Committee to activities and work on the protection, monitoring and promotion of the rights and interests of persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia and all of this shown in this report. As she pointed out in 2015, a further increase in citizens' conversion by 20% compared to the previous year was reported, she sent as much as 96% more recommendations, warnings and letters of support to natural and legal persons on the basis of knowledge acquired when visiting the areas where they reside, work or educate persons with disabilities. It handled 1745 complaints for the purpose of protecting human rights of persons with disabilities as well as in 2014 the most complaints concerned the area of social protection, then the field of labour and employment, pension insurance, education and accessibility. During the discussion, committee members and representatives of the departments in charge agreed with the Ombudsman's view that there is a very large amount of space in certain areas and that certain improvements are needed. This highlighted problem of carrying out adequate supervision in foster families, which we have repeatedly opened up the story of because there is too little control over the persons who are located in foster families, primarily the elderly and at this point the person with disabilities where the local community, as you know, is superior to the fact that there is an audit in terms of sanitary and technical conditions where these persons are located while the way these persons are treated and the way they are treated, is too few inspectors for the whole of Croatia and there are the most human rights violations as we know it. In the debate we also had a lot of discussion and were concerned about continuing the work of the Centre for Special Care, since the budget planned a reduction of funds was planned for this. And the problem of the Spinal Center was brought forward. I'm hoping to talk more about the spin center. The Spinal Centre we believe is to find space in, as we have said, we hope in the budget rebalancing, if not for next year, the Spinal Centre in the Varazdin Spas in relation to which I personally and within the board have actually held several meetings and which will have our support, but of course with the finding of an adequate and most profitable solution that should not endanger the realisation of the project itself because of the crucial importance for people with disabilities is particularly meant paraplegics and tetra plegists. The debate was held in part of the complaint for the work of the unique body of art, i.e. the Institute of Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. There were the most numerous complaints concerning the longevity of the art-making process, which consequently have a delay in the exercise of significant rights of persons with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties, and the quality of the teamwork of the body for the implementation of skill-making procedures for children with developmental difficulties. In this regard, I, personally on the basis of the knowledge, but the Committee members are familiar with the fact that practically there are no pediatricians adequately trained actually educators who evaluate children and very often, means that they are doctors for adults, and these are children, meaning from birth and at the earliest age where they need and get a solution so that parents can receive adequate and financial compensation as soon as possible, but also support the implementation of all that is necessary for the early rehabilitation of these children. A special interest in the debate has also been shown in the part of the employment of people with disabilities. And of course, we are pleased that in 2015 there was a significant increase in the number of people with disabilities compared to 2014 by 39.21% as a consequence of the obligation of quota employment. The members of the Committee have denied that the same employment obligation has been carried out and has, according to the Ombudsman, only within five ministries, five ministries of our government. So the rest of 15 were disrespected and in the ministries that quota employment. In this regard, I have already addressed the Prime Minister, as well as the Croatian Association of Employers, a recommendation from this Committee to respect and to invite them to respect that obligation, a legal obligation to increase the number of persons with disabilities, which is of real importance. I can conclude that this report has been accepted by the board of directors, and we suggest that this House accept it as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11570	Thank you very much. I would now open the debate and the first one, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, will speak to the distinguished representative Nada Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11571	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed Ombudsman, Mrs Anka Slonjšak, deputies with associates, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. This report shows the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities on protection, monitoring and promotion of the rights and interests of persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia in 2015. The HDZ Club will support this report as well as the work of the office and particularly appreciates the work of the Advocate General in this current term of office. Every time I talk about people with disabilities, we wonder if we are and how equal we really are. The Ombudsman's report concludes that people with disabilities are not equal members of our society in real life, in practice, although we have legal provisions that promote the rights and equality of all citizens, especially persons with disabilities. We have laws that suppress and punish every form of discrimination and so on and based on disability. International agreements, conventions and agreements have been implemented in our legislation. This report looks a lot like those reports from previous years, but I will, especially because of the shortness of time, because as we can see, it is very much about those specificities and specificities that the Ombudsman pointed out in 2015. In 2015, the Ombudsman participated in a constructive dialogue concerning the monitoring of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities between the UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The UN Committee's observations are that the system of concerns that lawmakers in the Republic of Croatia like to think is high, in fact, far from the conditions in which people with disabilities would exercise their human rights and the right to a decent life. In this direction, the Committee’s observations were concluded by the Advocate General. The Ombudsman shall, as a positive, provide information relating to the separation of social care institutions in the housing units of organised housing for integration and social inclusion. But it points out that more than 11,000 people have been violated their right to an independent life in the community since they have remained both in institutions and in foster families. Only a few institutions have been closed. For the past few years, there has been a policy of developing and stimulating foster care for adults. The Ombudsman considers this to be an out-of-date concept of concern that has been abandoned in the Western world. However, there are developments in the field in providing care for adults with mental disorders. Although people with psychosocial disorders are the largest group that has been violated the right to live in the community. They are often placed in institutions when this is not necessary, and the use of forced treatment is often done in an undegradable and inhumane way. The D.A. points out that the shift in this sense was made by the adoption of the Law on Persons with Mental Disturbation in 2014. Therefore, the process of transforming the facilities into the Centre for the provision of services in the community is very slow, and when implemented in part it has been implemented. Persons with disabilities, with physical difficulties cannot be integrated into social environments because the entire infrastructure in cities and villages is such as to exclude them from the world of work and social life. There are no rehabilitation centres, no personnel to implement them, no funds for them, no education, which is particularly expressed in some areas away from large cities, such as early interventions. Parents call for help in treating and developing a child but no response. In the surveyed six counties, the prosecutor concluded from the data that the form of assistance in those environments was not even recognized. The harsh violation of the rights of children with developmental difficulties to education remains present. Some schools have not left segregating education or seen it as discriminatory, even in advance for disability, warning of school failures. They don't understand parents who stress the need and the right of a child to education under a regular program. Schools and kindergartens refuse to implement the law mandatory adaptation to the needs of children with developmental difficulties. The process of professional orientation is still based on the student's limitations so that only 30% of disabled children have completed high school. And of course it also reflects their employment. Persons with disabilities are low qualification structures or have occupations that are not interesting or sought on the labour market. Legal changes and quota employment obligations have led to an increase in the number of employees. Thus, in 2015, more than 39% were employed. The prosecutor points out, and this has been discussed in the previous statement by the board president, that the ministries that were to support persons with disabilities and that they were to become equal members of society did not justify what they were declared. The ministries do not respect employment quotas or make people with disabilities accessible. Of the 20 ministries, everything is 1 accessible, 12 in part, and 2 inaccessible. Five ministries didn't show up on the attorney general's enquiries. Such a pattern of conduct was also highlighted by the Ombudsman's mother-in-law, not answering citizens' questions even to various bodies by the public authorities and the attorney-in-law's enquiries is indeed inadmissible. In 2015, the number of defence attorneys was increased even more by 20%, and the complaints relate most as always and earlier years to access to the goods and services of work and working conditions to education, and most of all from the field of social protection. If we know that people with disabilities are our poorest citizens because the benefits they and their families receive from the basis of disability are the only source of income and these revenues are really minimal. And it is estimated that out of more than 515 thousand people who achieve some form of support in various systems, 18% of them live in conditions of poverty. 22,000 and more with the most severe disability. Children with the most difficult developmental difficulties also experience a personal disability amounting to 1250 kunas, which settles costs with the basis of disability, and they are extremely expensive. The average disability pension is 1841 kuna. So from this data, we can see that these are really our poorest members of society. That the Social Care Act treats a personal disability as a social compensation, and any employment is a student or student scholarship that leads to the withdrawal of a personal disability is also unforgivable. Despite numerous warnings from the Ombudsman and interventions in the adoption of the Social Care Act relating to personal disability with the status of parent and social care services, the legal solutions of these rights are not in line with the requirements of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and Student Scholarships which lead to the abolition and disability. Since 2012, there has been a reduction in the number of extras for other people's care and assistance, mostly in 2014, and personal disability. In particular in 2015, complaints about the length of the proceedings and the settlement of the case have been expressed, in particular the requirements for skills with a single body of art at the Employment, Rehabilitation and Skilling of Persons with Disabilities. With the long-term process, the number of artificial procedures has been reduced, even by 55%. Even after several years of the adoption of the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Progress in this area, there is no and there is no case law. Violences and hate crimes are recognized. It is necessary to educate experts and disabled persons in this regard, empower them to report and process. In this regard, the Ombudsman advocates the launch of a legal process for persons with disabilities, as the persons themselves have been brought into the situation that the burden of proof and failure has been transferred to them. In addition to the economic situation, people with disabilities are in inadequate housing or are not taken care of at all. The housing policy is left to units of local self-government and depends not only on their material strength but also on the awareness of the needs and ways to care for this population. When it comes to the accessibility of the Ombudsman, it warns of the need for all citizens to be involved independently of their physical, sensory, cognitive and age-old abilities, as well as architectural and building housing barriers, limited or total inability to use public transport, dependence on their own car, all of this makes it difficult. And even more suggests people with disabilities to addiction to other people. There are numerous violations of the rights of persons with disabilities in the field of health and health care. The difficult availability of health services and rehabilitation treatments is certainly expected, given that other health problems are also present with disability. Distance from city and health centres, financial difficulties are mostly affecting more or less all citizens, but people with disabilities are even more affected. And what should be particularly highlighted before the end of this debate is the provision of Article 23 of the Convention concerning the protection of the right to parenting of persons with disabilities and the protection of the rights of children with developmental difficulties to grow up in their own family. It contains both categories that sometimes seem to be opposed to their interests. The lawyer warns of the lack of society in the area and helps to help parents with disabilities in their parental duties. And it is still due to discriminatory relationship with parents with disabilities that separates children from the parent home and deprivement of business ability is also used as a shortcut to achieve this and enable the procedure. The Advocate-General further advocates equality before the law, to the stricter criteria in the deprivement of business capacity, to ensure free legal assistance, to amend the Law on Police Affairs and Powers, the Law on Criminal Procedure, all that will contribute to a more effective approach of justice to persons with disabilities. Hatred crime is a severe circumstance for people with disabilities and as such is not recognized enough by them or by experts working with people with disabilities. We repeat once again, the report is really extensive and covers all segments of society, but because of the volume, we haven't processed everything. We leave it to further discussions and replicas. We pointed out what we consider to be more specific in 2015.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11572	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas. The first is the distinguished representative Sabine Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11573	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Murganić would refer to the part where you spoke about insufficient institutionalization of persons with disabilities. What I'm saying is it's probably not an accident that Mrs. Attorney's in her report, and the deputy lady in her opening statement started her report with this particular issue. In her report, lawyer Anka Slonjašak has been apostrophe for years of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which Croatia has signed since 2007 and especially in the area of complete, fullness of human rights and dignity of disabled people. And the fact is that, for various reasons, the Croatian helmet for the integration of disabled persons from children with disabilities to adults with any kind of difficulty for Western countries, however, with that finding, the Ombudsman found that Croatia had taken some positive steps and after decades of opening up for the first time were closed institutions in the social care system because it prepared the ground for the accommodation of users for life in the social community. However, she was somewhat shy and noted that this was likely due to pressure from outside, noting that positive shifts were made after all. However, we regret that these findings are not supported by the figures in the report itself, because if they were supported then it would be evident that this step is actually dramatic and that in the past four years, in fact, a step that has not happened in the previous 15 years when we talk about the process of deinstitutionalisation. And there probably is, there is pressure on the outside but it is simply very clear and honest that there was a very clear political will to move into this process and to make such dramatic steps for Croatia. And we have seen that in 4 years, there is much, much to be done about this, that is to say, the integration of persons with disabilities into society, not their institutionalization into special institutions, which in this way mean a certain and segregation.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11574	Thank you very much. The distinguished representative Nada Murganic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11575	I'd like to thank my fellow voters. As far as I was able to track your replica, it was obvious that we generally agree with the goal, with your intention that I understood the same replica, that it was potential and that a greater emphasis on deinstitutionalisation was made during the previous reporting period. As far as deinstitutionalisation of the Ombudsman is concerned, it certainly supports this, and it should be our goal for all of our citizens to be involved in the social community and in the lives of society and to use all social resources but also to contribute to all of ours, within the scope of our social resources. You in two, on two occasions in the replica pointed out that dramatic step, I would really like those steps not to be dramatic, deinstitutionalisation is really a serious process. We have always advocated previous years for deinstitutionalisation and for a wide network of non-institutional services. If it is just to move users out of the institution without providing certain support or that a social service network has not developed and starting with what we all see and this barrier architecturalally and beyond, then it could indeed be dramatic. So we support outside institutionalization, we support deinstitutionalisation, but they will always be people who can and must be taken care of in the institution and will always be and there will be people who do not need and should not be taken care of in the institution. This process is commendable because this difference will be done in this sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11576	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Milivovo Spike. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11577	My colleague Murganić, I assume you will agree with me that topics like this are always the ones when a large number of MPs will come forward and participate in the debate by showing your solidarity, your concern and what some would say and so on and so on. But I think that, and I'm asking you, would you agree with me, and that maybe this would be the time and place where we should give people with disabilities both an apology and as a society and as politicians, because I'm going to say it openly because we're talking about one thing here and in reality something else is happening. Because here is also the standard here today, in which I can monitor certain persons with disabilities this session and the debate on this point, raises the question of whether I can follow this through all the points, by each session of the Parliament, the meetings of the Government, the work of the ministry and the public appearance of many people. So do you agree that it might be a good conclusion for us as responsible people in the Republic of Croatia to be a little less hypocritical and a little more consistent and a little bit more pragmatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11578	Thank you. The distinguished representative Nada Murganic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11579	So I'll agree with you... I'll agree that we're inclined to discuss something special about a subject that has a sign like this, perhaps when it's actual. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There'll be a lot of debates and replicas. And regardless of the possible approach to some subject and problem, we'll all have the same attitude in this, that we're not equal society in relation to people with disabilities, that we really have to make it possible for them all together. And here, if that's hypocrisy, I'll agree to that. However, when it is dedicated to a person with disabilities the other day, to a person with poor vision, or rather not to list the same occasions now, it is good to talk at least then, and it is good to remember at least then. I understand that you wanted to say that as politicians we are responsible for everything that is bad in society. And I agree with you that we should be less hypocritical and not just about this subject but about everyday life and work.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11580	Thank you very much. The next replica is distinguished MP Margareta Mađeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11581	Mr. President. Dear Madam MPs, what you have also pointed out in your presentation is that it is social care in 2015 of the total number of complaints, so 258 of them have just been tied up in the area of social protection, so for the past 7 years and in the first place is the protection of these fundamental rights of persons with disabilities. Which, of course, is no wonder that Croatia is in terms of poverty and social exclusion among the EU's most affected countries. Thus, according to the 2015 State Statistics Institute in Croatia, 19.5% of the population lives on the edge of poverty, which unfortunately puts Croatia next to Bulgaria, Greece, Lithuania, Romania and Spain at the top of the EU countries. That's why I find it important what you pointed out in your debate and that's the status of carer or parent. The Ombudsman herself was of the opinion, and she appealed that this right should have been ensured by a wider circle of persons. Unfortunately, amendments to the Social Care Act have not been done and, in particular, from the perspective of the problem of poverty, as we have heard in the presentation of the esteemed deputy attorney when the crisis hits the family, unfortunately, they live on only one such fee. Not to mention, then, that a person with disabilities is in the things she needs in order to have a quality standard of living disabled because these fees are used for the most basic needs of life.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11582	Thank you very much. The distinguished representative Nada Murganic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11583	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, of course, the most complaints about the work of institutions and institutions in the social care system are the reasons why we, unfortunately, pointed out that people with disabilities are our poorest citizens. The problem is also that the benefits they receive from persons with disabilities, those are disability, extras for other people's care and help, I don't know the supplies of other species, they're actually serving them, they're minimal and they're serving them to settle basic living needs and costs both of them and their families. And these fees should be compensations that will serve them to help them achieve all the rights that citizens who do not have disability are easier to achieve. It's transports, it's help care and everything. So that's why the greatest orientation of people with disabilities is on social care. The second thing that should be pointed out is the fact that because of this economic crisis, somehow the measures of recovery and budget deficits always go to the savings from social care where they shouldn't. Even those who lend us money very often know how to say, you have to cut social benefits, you have too much social benefits. And the problem is that according to the percentage of GDP, we are not the ones who have gone too far with giving these social benefits, and we need even more attention from these citizens regardless of our financial difficulties.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11584	Thank you very much. The next replica, the esteemed representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11585	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Representative Murganić, in your debate you presented specific and quality problems as well as the shifts in the work of people with disabilities. What makes me happy is the number as 39% more employees but still employers need to stop looking for ways to exclude people with disabilities from the labour market. They need to start looking for ways to exploit all their potentials. We must not allow quota employment to be a burden but an example of good practice for all of us. The contribution... of jobs means not only building access ramps to facilities but sometimes flexible working conditions, supporting insurance, adequate equipment, then various customized ones that require not only financial resources but also understanding and the will of the environment. Together, we must make sure that the problems of people with disabilities are resolved more specifically and faster.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11586	Thank you very much. Honourable representative Nada Murganic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11587	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, colleagues. I'm glad you pointed out this part of the debate that is related to the employment of people with disabilities. The law adopted and related to quota employment as well as to the percentages which employers who do not have a disabled person are obliged to separate, pay, must be a good shift, returns persons with disabilities, or more directs them to the world of work on the one hand and those who do not still make one mass of money that should be realised, and I hope that it directs them to create conditions for even greater employment of persons with disabilities. I mean, this time I'll be on the employers' side. I don't think they should be fully criticised because a person with disabilities isn't just so unemployable if you don't give them everything else that would be like a self-port, to help them function in their workplace and a lot of environments don't have the conditions but I agree that a lot of the working environments have the conditions but they don't have that sense, hearing and understanding. Therefore, all the measures that work to encourage the employment of disabled persons, even these percentages that employers sometimes experience as punishment, are in fact incentives measures and I think that is the only way to continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11588	Thank you very much. The next replica, the distinguished advocates of Maria Budimir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11589	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Murganic, you spoke of the rights of persons with disabilities and their achievement. And I see in this abundant report that there are numerous violations of those rights in which the Ombudsman also speaks for persons with disabilities all these years not only in the 2015 report. I don't know if you'll agree with me, and I believe as the attorney says, we all need to warn about the need for additional education of people who work in the system of achieving these rights and all with the aim of every child's interest. Like. in the Croatian Employment Service people working on professional guidance in enrolment of children in high school, in the office of the state administration who make a solution to a certain form of schooling because only schooling will determine their further life path and thus their independence in work. And I, as a mother of a disabled child, met on a series of illogicalities here at these institutions when certain rights were to be exercised.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11590	Thank you very much. The distinguished representative Nada Murganic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11591	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues, I can only fully support this debate of yours and part of this presentation on behalf of the Club I have dedicated myself to this particular problem because we have passed regulations and we allow children with developmental difficulties and other forms of disability to be included in regular and kindergartens and schools. Indeed, though, parents face a lot of problems when they require their child to be entitled to education under regular conditions. Whether there are objective or subjective difficulties, regardless of who are in schools from people who are our authority, especially children, who actually not only educate but also raise our children and determine their attitudes and orientations should not happen. Whether these are educations, whether these measures are coercive, under allegations of obligations under certain regulations, legal regulations, but in any case it is necessary to work on it. The defeating fact is that we have such a relationship and a lack of understanding of people with disabilities and in our ministries, the Ombudsman said in her report. I am that and a colleague from the board also noted it and the sadder it is, the more sad it is not to make it available, and some other rights are not allowed from any ministry, but it is sadder if, as a positive example, the Ministry of Social Policy, the Ministry of Health and Mirovinski and all those others do not. And I also agree with what fellow Spica and you said that a lot of things as a society should be done and done a lot of work on ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11592	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the esteemed representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11593	Thank you very much. My colleague Murganić, when it comes to people with disabilities, should then really speak with caution, but also take certain activities because it is an extremely sensitive group of residents. 7303 are unemployed persons with disabilities at the end of the year, but if we consider people with physical impairment, then I think the right policy can be achieved by all those who would like to work to get them a job. And the Law on Rehabilitation, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities has helped but it does not distinguish some important things. It does not distinguish publicly from private and does not distinguish activities. It is not equal to hiring persons with disabilities in a construction company or in an educational institution, in a production plant or in an IT activity, in a company exclusively engaged in physical affairs or in certain administrative affairs. The public administration is primarily a major part of waste on administrative work and there is a space for employment of disabled persons, not legally imposing on private companies which do not have any opportunities in some cases because of specific activities to employ persons with disabilities, and that is why this law does not distinguish and therefore it is urgent to change the legal framework as much as possible to reduce the unemployment of persons with disabilities, but does not create an obligation for those who cannot respect it at all. And at the same time, we introduce automatic sectretaries by public companies in local, local self-government units and state-owned enterprises that no one appears to. You have to wait half an hour because all people with physical damage can get a job, especially Croatian defenders. It's not the only way to get them to retire. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11594	Thank you. The distinguished representative Nada Murganic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11595	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Maric, I fully agree with you. State authorities, administration, public services should be preceded in their own examples. By example, how and how people with disabilities can be employed. Yeah, we had it at headquarters I remember when we had employees who were blind or weak-sighted and were extremely zealous and were certainly one of the best employees and workers. However, here in my neighborhood from our Karlovac Electric these days, one such blind person has retired, and believe me, no secretary, no phone of any color can replace the voice of that fellow citizen and all that she could do except for the simple connection of the phone and provide, that I am not saying how much it meant to her because she was not only in the world of work, but she was also socially engaged. So, we can also only point out that it is us from the state bodies, from the public services that we can do so, and we have to get ahead especially because we from such public services and public institutions like to think of ourselves as kind of humanitarianally committed and socially sensitive to our jobs. Can privates make their contribution there? In any case, they should be encouraged and stimulated. There is also a private sector of jobs that could be suitable for people with disabilities, and this percentage I will believe is not punishment but is a contribution to creating working conditions for people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11596	Thank you very much. We would now move to the next club, so on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers – the party of work will take the word from the distinguished representative Jaroslav Pecnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11597	Dear colleagues and colleagues, first of all, I would like to welcome the representatives of the associations that are here “Help the children” who listen to us, while I would like to thank those in Osijek who helped me to make this little step-up to Ivan Sturk, the association of blind “Light” etc. Because they just made it easier for me to understand things, because it's still a subject that's not something that people do every day. And since it's a highly sensitive group of people, it's important to talk about it in the right way. I am pleased that Mrs Murganic of HDZ has concluded that she will support HDZ, the report by Ms Anka Slonjšak, or the attorney general. I hope this phase of the attorney's cut came to an end. You commended Mrs. Slonjšak's work, but the work was also good with Ms. Attorney General for the children, the attorney general, but you made different decisions. But I think of this as progress and I welcome that progress. When we talk about people with disabilities then, it means that through the prism of human rights, it's actually their rights away from those standards that they're supposed to be and who they're wanted to be. Because this isn't just about human rights, protecting human rights, it's about the dignity of those people to be cared for and cared about anyway, as well as the dignity of every man but here in particular. Some things have been said here, so I won't repeat them too much, but I will remind you that according to the Ministry of Social Policy in social care institutions, about 3,200 children with developmental difficulties and persons with physical, intellectual and sensory damage and over 3,800 with mental damage. In the foster home there are about 4,000 adults, the elderly, mostly older and 675 children in the family home. There's already been a talk here about whether it's the most convenient and the best way to set it up. It is said that the practice in the West is to avoid it, practice in Central and Eastern Europe where we belong is to kind of promote it. But the fact is that it concludes from this report that over 11,000 persons have been denied, their rights to independent life in the community have been violated and, of course, with appropriate support. In this sense, it is concluded that it is going towards this Western model, that it is difficult and slowed because of course it requires both the resources and the professional people, and we have neither the means nor the professional people to a sufficient extent. But what is really our biggest problem is the lack of progress in ensuring rehabilitation programmes especially for children with developmental difficulties. The rights of children with developmental difficulties are cruelly violated, and there seems to me no strategy how and how to move on. So we come up with a paradoxical situation, that the segregation in education that we have today has actually become something that is not considered discrimination. And it would actually, it's a kind of discrimination that should certainly be warned about and finally be here and warned. A large number of disabled children have not completed primary school. This detimises their employment. It's a good thing they've been introduced so-called. employment quotas and an increase in the number of people with disabilities who have been employed, even 40%. However, there are also a number of problems here and research shows that only in 5 ministries of the Republic of Croatia is the number of people with disabilities who have received it, because of the number of people with disabilities that the ministries have committed themselves to. I heard the data the other day that I wouldn't normally know, president of the Association of the Blind, I think it's called Mr. Vojin Peric, a very active man from the theater to all possible human rights advocates of the blind, half-blind, weak-sighted, etc. he pointed out that, for example, there was a man who was employed in the Parliament who was blind but today more in the Parliament, he probably retired, today there are no more men in the House who would be employed here. Therefore, if we start from the institution where we are at the moment, it would be good to think about that when there was at least one new job and actually showing up in the work of that desire and the will to help. Mr. Peric listed some other institutions, but in any case, this seems interesting. When we look at the complaints received by the Ombudsman and reportedly 1750 people were, or the complaints were, the most relevant to health care, education and education, pension system and the field of work and employment. They worry about the figures that indicate the implementation of austerity measures in this poorest and most vulnerable population. And we must not forget that over 18% of people with disabilities live in conditions of express or extreme poverty. We've been witnesses recently, but it's been going on for years, right, but it just kind of came up on the surface, a loss of disability in children with developmental difficulties. It's something that's been going on for at least five years. First of all, it was about children with so-called. Down syndrome that's somewhere around 1650. And they're disabled, or part of them are disabled. These children were entitled to a disability of 1250 kuna and they lost that right even though their condition didn't actually change for the better, the rest is more or less the same. What are the reasons? The reasons are for that art. We'll get to that. The key problem of children with developmental difficulties is that they need continued therapy of experts, psychologists, educators, defectologists, logos, therapists, therapists, etc. for their potential recovery or at least not to be less. And we actually see from this data that it's about people who are first of all children if it's about children which is even more sensitive but about people that we actually treat as citizens of the lower order, second order. And that's something that's inadmissible. The skill criteria have been tightened, today there are 39,000 disabled people who are entitled to disability. But let's say the right to a disability according to these new criteria is acquired for example by a person who is severely retarded, extremely severely retarded. That person who's harder retarded doesn't have that right. And now the problem is that parents, let's say, if we talk about children, these children don't react too much and they don't complain because they're afraid that they're going to lose the social support they need. And it's all actually a drop in the sea because if you look at everything you need to do to get the art, let's say you have to pay about 5,000 kuna, it's hard to get the status of a mother who has such a child to be a nurse's mother and get a fee of 2500 kuna. It's very difficult to acquire. And then people are silent in that fear, so give me what you give. And that's something to be warned about and what needs to be changed anyway. When we talk about this unique art, there are numerous objections, I'll just point to the fact that there are no staff missing. Today in these institutions, it is called the Institute of Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, today there are 80 specialists of doctors, 50 experts of advisors of various profiles from social workers, defectologists, logopedes, etc. But the fact is that there are a large number of administrative workers missing, means logistics that prepares the work of these doctors or that they can make a decision. The artisan is awaited and depends on the degree of damage, problems and up to a year. And this is something that many citizens' associations, citizens' initiatives that have children with developmental difficulties, and in general those dealing with these problems. I also read the government's opinion on this report, and among other things, the question has been raised here to equalise the rights of all persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia. It is necessary to clarify that the special status for Croatian military disabled is such as this. In other words, the Government says about the existence of a special care system for the Croatian Homeland War, the Government considers the Republic of Croatia to be justified and necessary and is related to the report, etc. Of course I can't agree with this, I just think that whoever's disabled he's disabled and his needs are equal regardless of whether he died in a car accident, whether he died in a war, whether he died anywhere. But it may seem heretic to someone but I think if we look at the interest of the disabled, that's it. Because the problem is to solve, of course, it's a matter of money, but also of goodwill. And that is not to deny anything to the disabled of the Homeland War but to raise the other disabled to the level of the disabled of the Homeland War. It's something that would actually show that we're a socially sensitive state and we like to brag about it. And in the end, I have to admit I don't know exactly, but I'm pretty sure neither the disabled civilian victims, the disabled of the Homeland War, have the same status as the defenders. And we all know very well that all those trams, the bakers, they had to do their jobs, they had, like, me working obligation, you had to be there in the city that was shelled simply because it was expected of you. Thus, each one made a contribution in his own way, and now we have these differences that I do not think are allowed to make. And when we talk about these problems that are linked to people with disabilities, I would point out what I was told at the Training and Education Centre in Osijek that works politely if it can be said with the means that it has and which somehow helped me to understand a little bit better what it is. They warn that as part of the overall care for children with developmental difficulties and adults it is necessary to develop forms of care through early intervention that is up to 6 years, then through education and rehabilitation of primary school students, care for adults with disabilities, etc. I'm just gonna hang on to this. And now it lists a whole series of activities that are necessary for this care to be applied appropriately. I'm not gonna read it all, I'm just gonna sensitize the community, aren't we? Anyway, here I often take a tram to work that would be said in the Parliament, and the disabled mostly have to stand and wait in the tram for young boys and girls to sit down and not see that they need to get up. So that sensitization on that elemental level doesn't exist, let alone another level. Employing experts from various profiles, patronage work... and professional teams, education and counselling of parents and families and children, organized support group for psychosocial assistance, development of psychodiagnostic and rehabilitation resources and procedures etc. etc. What is important is that in many parts of our country there are no opportunities to conduct early interventions, and also where it is being led in a slow way, for example, it is said here that it is provided in Osijek at the Suvag polyclinic, the Association for Early Interventions and Childhood in Osijek-Baranja County at the Centre for Education Ivan Sturk and is only done on Friday afternoons. Thus, it is indeed for the number of children present very, very little. The needs for early intervention are extremely high. When we talk about the education and rehabilitation of primary school students, then we need to provide a material space that is missing and what may be even more important, and then I will end up even though there is a lot of it but I am running out of time, this school year, for example, just to take Strk from 160 students to 21 years of age with a tendency of 42 turns out to be 21 and has to leave that education system. Thus, these people will have to stay at home because they will no longer be able to use space and capacity after schooling and quality care from 12 to 14 years of age corresponding to it to the appropriate institution of a person losing all forms of care and going into regression, depression in sickness with them and their families. And just one more thing, if you have, say, children with cerebral palsy, one person came to me, then when she graduates from high school, she has to decide whether or not her parents will accept the disability, and then she becomes permanently incompetent to work, she will never be able to get a job again, and why she is in school, and on the other hand, if she doesn't accept it, she actually comes in line with those unemployed, and she has the same conditions and rights as everyone else who is healthy and doesn't have those problems. It's all the things that are being corrected I just need a little more sensitization, goodwill and, of course, money for the right things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11598	Thank you very much. And your exposure caused several replicas. She's the first one to be the esteemed representative of Blaženko Boban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11599	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear fellow Minister Pecnik, you simply cannot discuss what topic was involved in this Croatian Parliament without politicizing, so when it comes to the disabled and the work of the Ombudsman, or the lawyer's report on working with the disabled. You just can't not politicize, but I'll give you an answer about my attitude. So, I said in the previous presentation of Ms. Attorney General this here person with disabilities was the only one in 11 years of my local work being in the field, was in my local environment but it's not just about my local environment but trust me over 11 years from a series of colleagues I've heard that she was in their local environment and the only one, I repeat. But I agree with one piece about your employment in the Parliament, I will just remind you, it is also a legal obligation as well as any other public institution, institution, and this Croatian Parliament to have persons with disabilities. It's probably going to be regulated in some new employment. And what I wanted was particularly highlighted, and that's popularization and that's media positive examples. A recent example here will help colleagues from Zadar, a catering facility in Zadar, employs two people with Down syndrome. Believe me, a couple from Solin went to that catering facility in Zadar just to spend the day at that catering facility the next day. Indeed, it is very useful and quality that the popularization of positive examples in society will come across a wide echo of all people and not just people with disabilities and thus very, very much help them and such examples believe me there is still very much. That is why I wanted to highlight this example here in Zadar as a very positive example, and we should continue to go that way together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11600	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Jaroslav Pecnik will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11601	I really don't see what I just said ugly or critical about HDZ or anything. I'm just finding out what the facts are. But here's what I'm going to justify is that you are currently in HDZ, indeed one sensitive and vulnerable group, and that you need to be treated very carefully and carefully in this situation until this whole thing is dealt with by this crisis that you've produced, so I forgive you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11602	Thank you very much. The next replica will be the distinguished representative of the Drazen Prose. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11603	Thank you very much. Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Pecnik. Here's the Attorney General's report on people with disabilities shows what level of development we're at as a society on the concerns of these most sensitive and most endangered categories of our society. And this report shows that a lot of things need to be done better and the responsibility for doing this better is, in fact, on all of us who are passing laws on which we need to increase, raise that quality and life and work of people with disabilities. Let us not forget that the power of a society, of a community, is actually exactly how powerful its most sensitive link is. And that is why these very issues related to both the work and life of persons with disabilities in Croatian society should be the main topics. However, also colleague Pecnik, exactly what you said, we hope that this almost practice here in the Croatian Parliament on the defence institute and not accepting the report will actually stop. We also need to make sure that here in this state budget for 2016 there is a reduction in resources for persons, compensation for persons with disabilities. It has been announced that an asset census has been introduced... an extra for other people's help and care. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The possibility of closing and closing associations and associations for disabled persons has almost been announced since their sustainable financing has not been regulated. And, of course, that way, if we continue to show one concern for these segments of society or perhaps these actions of abolishing the defense institute. And I hope that it won't be in this case of the Ombudsman's Institute for Persons with Disabilities we'd take a really huge step in the development of a democratic society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11604	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Jaroslav Pecnik will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11605	Here you go, buddy. I would just supplement and say that I forgot to say I think it's also important so it can be related to what you're saying, the role of civil society and civil society that must be very important to promote awareness of the importance and all this we're talking about. And in order to be born better and more, let's say the proof is that when a professional training of a person without a right to employment is done. So when it comes to blind people, then it's actually a disability, a whole series, it's all to be easily solved because it's not some big asset, but actually these people, then we're guessing. And indeed there should be a positive presence as to how to say discrimination. In other words, these individuals are truly privileged and must be privileged, and we must actually work to be privileged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11606	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the distinguished representatives of Nada Turine-Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11607	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Pecnik, you encouraged me to report to this replica when you referred to the Government’s opinion or part of the government’s opinion regarding the Ombudsman’s findings in its report, indicating that our disabled people were not treated equally or that they were not in the same position in view of where they gained this disability. I would say that the government's opinion, namely that the Attorney General's report, is very well made up, although in its opinion, the government has been taxing a whole series of statistical failures. I wonder at all, probably the attorney general got that from some state institutions, so I assume they communicate with the same institutions both the competent ministries and our attorney. But apparently, a ministry official had a need, or warrant, to write such an opinion where he pointed to some sort of formality, if any, failures in the work of a lawyer. But what was particularly surprising to me was that the government’s haughtiness in its opinion where it did not say anything in the assessment of this report but looked back on some gaps leaving room for it to be actually debated today, for we unfortunately do not have anything but a failure, a failure where we have not appointed not only a lawyer in terms of choice but to choose those people who have done it very well so far regardless of who it was. So what I would say in conclusion, differences in the rights of our disabled people should not be towards the place of disability but towards the degree of damage and I think that there is both the lawyer and everyone who advocates it right and everything else needs to be solved through other legal solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11608	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Jaroslav Pecnik will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11609	Here, thank you, colleague. I agree with you, and I really think that this society can show full awareness, humanity that actually a healthy society is in the full sense of that word if it really does not and does not be, and I would be happy if, let's say, the Associations of the Disabilities of the Homeland War publicly showed that they agree with that attitude, not my position, but the Attorney General's position to even it out because I really don't see the reasons in the disease, in disability that there's some difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11610	Thank you very much. Now we will move on with the clubs, so on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, the word will be taken by the distinguished representative Ana Komaraić Devčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11611	Thank you, Mr. President. Deputy Attorney General for Persons with Disabilities, colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I would like to say that the Club supports the current work of the Ombudsman as well as her team and all that you have done to improve the position of persons with disabilities in our society. But we also feel that this is an extremely important topic that the SDP Club cannot participate in further debate over the inability and incompetence of the government which allowed the deadline to expire, namely to end the mandate of the Ombudsman for people with disabilities, and that it has not found time for such an important topic to choose a new one. What happened and what happened next. According to Article 22. The Attorney General's Law on Persons with Disabilities is required to elect a new lawyer within 30 days of the end of the term of office. It's true, the deadline hasn't expired yet, it's 30.6. The public call was sent on 1.4.2016, 7 candidates came forward, three interviews were conducted 24.5.2016. The Ministry of Social Policy and Youth has given its opinion to the government of the Republic of Croatia and that's where the story stops. We don't have a lawyer for people with disabilities today just because the government and the Parliament don't work. What I still want to point out and the SDP Club has warned about this and at the time of the budget, that this government has decided to cut and save on the poorest groups of this society, that it has decided to cut and save on people who need our help most, and these are persons with disabilities, that the SDP Club has submitted several amendments that you are here in this House without blinking, and today we hear from your ranks that you are very concerned and that you are very concerned about the situation of persons with disabilities. The Honorable President of this House, the SDP Club, is also of the opinion that this item of the agenda should not have been discussed, on the agenda today when we still do not have the Ombudsman for people with disabilities, that we should have waited for the D.A. or the D.A. for disabled persons to choose and that such an important topic should come to the debate and that the more the Ombudsman who wrote this report is sitting with us in this House and cannot contact us. The message that we sent today is that we don't care, that we don't care because if we cared, we wouldn't be acting like this today. And yes, my dear colleagues and colleagues. What I'm trying to say in the end, the former attorney general is here with us in this High House, yes, sitting there in the corner behind the pillar. Does it seem to you that this is what it is and that it is the relationship between us, our society and that it clearly shows us the attitude towards people with disabilities in Croatian society, humiliating and inadmissible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11612	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused several replicas. The first one is Honored MPs Nada Murganic. Here you go. And I'm sorry, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the distinguished representative Margareta Mađeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11613	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The honourable representative injured the Rules of Procedure, Article 238, paragraph 1. spoke about a subject that was not subject to discussion. I remind you, the subject is the Attorney General's Report for Persons with Disabilities, the course of proceedings, the election of the Advocate General is still going on. And you know what's inadmissible? An inadmissible report on the work of the Ombudsman for people with disabilities is used for the political bickering of petty political purposes and what you wanted to say about the work of this government you could use a business law and at the beginning of the session to seek a break for the club and not interfere with the debate of the attorney in such a shameful way.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11614	Thank you very much. I estimate that he was not injured by the Rules of Procedure, but a colleague expressed her position and position as a club we may or may not have to agree with. In fact, here are the witnesses that most speakers have actually shown a very positive view of both the report and the Ombudsman. Therefore, this technical issue is not really a matter of discussion and politicisation. But I estimate he's not hurt by the Rules of Procedure. The next replica will be the distinguished representative of Nada Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11615	I would like to thank the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Devčić Comparić. I was also a little confused, because you said in the opening statement that the SDP club couldn't continue to participate in this debate, so then I expected you to end the debate. However, you used that time to talk about the government, because unfortunately that anxiety you're talking about and your partners about being present in the Croatian Democratic Community does not exist, you're obviously nervous. So, let me just keep going. In the part where you looked back at the government, and it's about the condition of people with disabilities, where you said this government did everything it could to end the rights of people with disabilities. I don't know what the law on this government was passed, during this government where the rights were abolished, and also where the funds were abolished. The prosecutor in the report, I don't know if you were preparing for the report or were just preparing to criticise the government, states that since 2012 the number of users of other people's care and assistance, personal disability and this peak has reached 2014. So much for this government. And as for the funds provided for in the budget, colleagues' budgets have been made on the basis of spending that you have managed to provide for the needs of persons with disabilities, and unfortunately they will not be all spent because people with disabilities cannot achieve their rights because of the lack of an expert body, which is the same consequence of your great concern and cooperation with people with disabilities. And those and the legal provisions were warned by the attorney general.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11616	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Ana Comparić Devčić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11617	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, fellow Members, there is no word and there is no way to justify the unhappiness of this government and the unhappiness of this House that you, or your party, are leading. You simply won't be able to justify it, and these people see it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11618	Thank you very much. This really wasn't a topic, of course, and you know it wasn't a topic. But good. We are going to the following clubs, so on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, they will take the esteemed representative Marko Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11619	Thank you, Mr. President, esteemed attorney, Deputy Attorney General. The MOST of Independent Lists will support this report. We will base ourselves on two topics in this exhibition. One is a unique body of art and another is autism. For the past few weeks, there have been a lot of words about the unique body of art, and some parliamentary representatives have said that this government has abolished disabled children with Down syndrome. However, we see from Mrs. Slonjak's report that the problems date back to January 2015 when the single body of art was due to begin work. Ms. Slonjšak warned in time, and she felt that under the conditions of a completely new reconstruction, human and spatial capacitation, the necessary education in the application of the regulation would be difficult to comply with the requirements for skills, and we recommended that measures be taken to ensure the flow of the skills system be taken, and thus shortened the time for the implementation of this procedure. On the occasion of this warning and recommendation, a meeting was held at the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth with the participation of representatives of the competent ministries, which pointed out that the Institute for Art and Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities took over at the end of 2014 from all systems in which about 8800 unfinished cases were conducted, and that due to objective difficulties these cases could not be expected to end within a reasonable period of time. An agreement has been reached on the priority art of objects that do not suffer the delay of the right to parental leave due to the care of children with severe developmental disorders. We see in this regard that the Ombudsman reacted in time and warned that the measures taken were not adequate, and by the end of the year the number of cases increased to 39205. It is about 1% of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia today waiting for the art or streaming it specifically today the city of the size of Varazdine is waiting for the art. We see that despite the agreement on priority skills of 25,000 subjects from the social care system, more than half of them remain unsolved, i.e. About 13850. With the inaccessible long wait in Mrs. Slonjak's report, we read: "We have often objected to insufficient education, as well as professional and professional competence of witches in individual district offices, especially in children's art cases. Some associations that represent the interests of children with disabilities, parents and experts find that the evaluations of children with disabilities by professionals with experience in adult skills for the needs of the pension system are missing, since they do not recognise the specificity of the development age of children, the outcomes of rehabilitation and treatment, think that children with developmental disabilities should necessarily be included pediatricians for preschool children or school medicine doctors for children of school age. We cite some of the observations and suggestions from their answers. One of the basic starting points was that the introduction of a new model of art will no longer be artificial in the medical model but will be based on functionality. They will be skilled in their place of residence, which is a regional centre. Then they'll have a mobile team to come into the person's place of residence. The intention was to bring skills closer to the user himself and enable him to carry out the skills without the costs of transport or other additional costs. But we have been convinced that the complete method of work is worrying both by deadlines and by the surface of the people who perform the art. We used to go to art a number of times, to a number of different places when we had to exercise rights from different systems, and now that we're applying for rights from different systems, we're going to art again and again, but now in one place. They assured us that we would have one finding and an opinion and that we would use it to achieve different rights but it did not seem to have happened. From all of this, it is clear who is responsible for the bad implementation of the good idea, given the number of problems that have culminated because of all of this and had to collapse. But I repeat, the collapse is responsible for those who have failed to secure the transition model and have provided sufficient quality skills. The MOST of Independent Lists has taken steps to correct the system in a positive direction and set a time limit by respecting all the proposals presented here and to highlight a much better model than the one we inherited. The other problem is autism, especially a major problem highlighted in the report is about autism and so we read the following: The Republic of Croatia does not use a unique algorithm of autism diagnostics and autistic spectrum disorders. Parents therefore spend too much time searching for diagnosis, and late diagnosis also means delayed rehabilitation. Especially negative is the fact that there is no proper relationship between the environment and the child’s needs. All this time, pediatricians who first come in contact with their child and parents are underly focused on early detection of these disorders, and even when parents convince them that something needs to be done, they do not know who and where to conduct the diagnosis. Over the years, the lawyers complain about the parents of children with different developmental difficulties, especially from areas far from major cities, because of the inability to achieve the necessary rehabilitation programmes that a child needs. The Special Report proposes that the Assembly, as the most legislative body, ensure, in accordance with its powers, the adoption of such concrete decisions and the taking of concrete activities, which will be provided under a single methodology of diagnostics available throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia, early interventions available to each child and his family regardless of where they live, adaptation of the education system to the needs of children with autism, inclusion in regular education systems with the provision of various forms of support, professional orientation, appropriate specialised and multidisciplinary health care with particular emphasis on the protection of mental health and different forms of care in adulthood. During the last year, we witnessed a parent protest of children with autism in Osijek who were ultimately looking for a specialized institution for their children. They write, our children need early intervention, which is essential, we need an individual program. Therefore, a programme created for each individual individually in accordance with its capabilities in order to develop them, which would be implemented by a therapist. Which would be possible if we had an autism center in Osijek. Apology like the state has no means so the construction of the centre is delayed, there are centres for autism in Zagreb, Rijeka and Split, we no longer accept. It's high time you recognized the needs of children and young people with autism from our part of the country. They require diagnostics, early detection, early intervention, problem-solving of preschool and school-age children, care solving and working therapy of adults with autism after 21st year and setting up a stationary department of the center of the crisis room. Finally, I must stress that what we expect is a quality system aimed at the educational and educational social and rehabilitation needs of children and young people, adults with autism throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia. We therefore recommend that the Government of the Republic of Croatia proceed without delay with this project and all activities initiated. And we expect all competent ministries to be made known as soon as possible about all measures and implementation deadlines taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11620	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, I think. The first is Honorable Representative Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11621	My dear colleague, Sladolev, I'd like to discuss some things when we discuss in the discussion that we have accurate information. So, the unique body of art is the desire of the Association of Persons with Disabilities, I remember a 15-year-old already trying to form that unique body. It's clear that when something new is formed that it's not, that I can't predict all the circumstances. On the other hand, when we talk about witches last year, 20 new witches were hired, 5 skills were held. So you can't talk about how witches aren't educated. Of course we need more witches, but what's the basic problem is that we have very few colleagues who want to go into the profession. Because it's already a waist. Therefore, the goal of the single body is and I am pleased that despite those ideas that the single body is abolished that this idea is gone and that the unique body of art will continue its further path with a fundamental goal to ensure that disability is assessed uniquely, so no matter what degree of disability you have, you have the opportunity to achieve these rights everywhere in the system. And that's the benefits of this system. This means that no matter where you get your disability, in which part are those defenders, whether it's social, whether it's working legislation that this disability is unique to you, and therefore the methodology adopted goes to that no matter what degree of damage you have to have a unique disability. What's missing and what's caused these big problems are the rules. So the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth has not passed the disability rule that you are doing with your disability rate and this has led to all these problems and the rule can be passed by the minister within 15 days. And I think that the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth should adopt that rule as soon as possible and solve a lot of problems that are then passed on to the unique body of art and de facto it is not wrong for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11622	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Marko Sladolev will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11623	Dear Mr. Mrsic, I contacted the organizations before this report, so I didn't speak in my mind, so they told me that as far as the unique body of art was concerned that the idea was good. And I mentioned it, but their experiences are that the witches are too poorly trained, that there are not enough pediatricians in these unique bodies and that there is a problem. So, it was their not my grudge and I think they're best directed to what's going on in the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11624	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Gordana Rusak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11625	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the exposure of colleagues to Sladolev has shown that there are problems here that existed before during the last government, there are also problems today during this government. Let us remember not so long ago, but at the time of last government, the problem of that boy who could not get, or his brother, could not get the status of a carer but only his parents. And that story was running through the media. Today I hear in our Deputy Attorney General's report that even today this legal framework is not resolved, that a circle of people what status of guardians can get is still not extended. So whose fault is it? Are those who are now in power or those who were? But at this point, I don't really want to call anyone and I'm sick of that ball-to-left, right-to-left switch. Let's take responsibility for each other and start working, and let's not collect political points. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11626	Thank you very much. Before we move on to the next club, there's something that needs to be said. We've heard a lot of things here before and, of course, there's been criticism of the government, but there's also criticism of this House. And it's interesting that after these criticisms, those who express criticism then go away at this point even though they all swear that they care deeply about the disabled, the disabled, etc. At this hour, not every sixth representative is present in this Chamber. And now I'm very interested in how some who discussed it half an hour ago or an hour ago and very much advocated rights for people with disabilities and criticised this House not to do enough, not to debate enough, etc. Justifying that they're not here right now because they said theirs mostly for political reasons and then they got out of this assembly. So unfortunately that same thing says everything together, but good. Let's move on to the clubs. Now, on behalf of the HSS club, the HDS will share the time of the distinguished representatives Branko Hrg and Goran Dodig. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11627	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Deputy Attorney, Mrs. Slonjak, I welcome you. My colleagues and colleagues, it is interesting to always listen to debates about groups in society that we are particularly sensitive to if we are. In any event, from this report submitted by the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities and which the HSS and HDS Club will accept. As we can see, what Croatian legislators generally consider to be a good system of care for people with disabilities is still far from the standards that would really enable people with disabilities to achieve their human rights and dignity. Unfortunately, according to the report, for people with disabilities from society for various reasons, Croatia is more similar to countries in Eastern and Central Europe than Western countries who are so anxious. When we read reports especially such a report in such a large range, we should probably start to think about how to apply what is given in the comments and recommendations. What to do is that there will be no such remarks and recommendations in the next report. The D.A. made a report that wasn't just in the big picture written, it's really done in the field, and I really commend it from the heart. And what I'm particularly pleased about with the D.A.'s office with a disabled person here cannot be felt in this report by any political connotation. So this is really about the interests of people with disabilities. Two things that I want to stress here and maybe make some suggestions, maybe throw a bug in our ear to think about how to lay down legislation in the Republic, how to regulate these powerful regulations, laws, regulations, I don't even know what anymore, and so many administrative obstacles that make it impossible for people with disabilities to move, who also make it impossible for people who don't have physical disability to move too. What to do to make it better, more efficient, cheaper, and to take care of people with disabilities. Because we are at a time when people self-organize, when citizens of certain groups organize themselves into different associations and find solutions themselves and offer solutions. And now it's just maybe up to us to put some of those solutions in some legal frameworks, into the regulations and start applying them. People self-organize in space and time when the system did not enable them to meet their life needs. Looking at children are the education system of preschool education, primary education, high school education, here we have to say that certain shifts and steps have been made back these years since we've been an independent state. And surely this report that we have today is much, much better and shows significantly more good things that have been made for people with disabilities than the previous reports that were there 10 years ago. But let's remember the assistant in class. So something that's also being run through certain associations, the system has kind of accepted it, and now we're already in the second year when we're moving into one of these models of working with children. Let's put a little sign here on professional staff in primary or secondary schools. Could we perhaps make this system much cheaper, much more efficient and much better to make it more beneficial for people with disabilities and society, children? We have also made this report a small pilot project, one idea, we have tried to calculate and come to the conclusion that in certain environments, mobile support centres in certain mini regions could be established to help children more effectively in the education and education system, to help parents and to cost everything together at least twice as much as it costs now. What am I talking about? I'm talking about that in one city and in the respective municipalities instead of having in every school a psychologist, one educator, one defecologist, one logo to create one center that will serve all those schools, all those units of local self-government that will work and do and education for teaching assistants, who will do education to help parents, who will be a professional team. Such an expert team when we made the calculation would cost twice as much as it costs now all of it employed by schools individually where you actually have no cooperation and where this team is not complete but is individual, individual. I've been initiated by this report on such thoughts. The other thing that's also important and should be talked about here is the employment of people with disabilities. There's already been a lot of talk here. And in those times when people with disabilities or underemployment are not employed, people are self-organizing again. They started doing some programs, some projects, and they started hiring again. Here's my association, since I'm also mayor then also from that local level quite involved, my Association of Persons with Disabilities in the Križevci currently employs 33 people of whom 9 people with disabilities while other people help people with disabilities. And there's a possibility but we need to modify some legal stuff a little bit the same. Social entrepreneurship, something that can be worked on, something that has no sole purpose of profit to share dididenda, rather than profits to hire new people and expand employment, including in the first place persons with disabilities. And here it's still said, I'm saying this from practical examples, so we can prove everything, on a practical example, and just put it in frames. And finally, before I leave my colleague Dodig, I am asked to point out, in any case, what my colleague before me has been saying to people from the spectrum of people with autism. So when we talk to people with disabilities, we need to specifically mention children, young people and adults with autism spectrum disorder. And stress that it has not yet been done enough for their rehabilitation, education and education. Once again, it should be noted that families with children with autism are exposed to great stress and deal with difficult situations daily. And these centers that my colleague talked about just before, that exist aren't what they're supposed to be. They need to be done, they need to be modernised so that people don't torture themselves, but that it's a real help to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11628	Thank you very much. Now the remaining time will be used by the esteemed representative of Goran Dodig. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11629	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Maybe it's five, six minutes I've got and too much to talk about for the simple reason of this problem, for the simple reason that in those five, six minutes you can't say everything I think you should talk about in general about this problem. I also agree with these assessments that this report should be supported but the most important thing is that here I would like to express my gratitude to the general fact that someone is dealing with this problem. Unfortunately, we have seen that in this House where it really should be not a political issue, but a civilization issue is turning into a political issue. It's really not good because remember that we are all potentially disabled or disabled and that this really is a question of man's relationship to man and this House to people who are in a certain way, and that's conditionally said disabled. So, the problem with people with disabilities is, it has no doubt at all the same as having problems with each social group, but here is a particularly sensitive story. I want to ask a few principle questions. Is it always a disabled person who is administratively defined really disabled? You know? Could a disabled person, a kind of disability, be a mark for the general mark of disability? I can mention cases where people with severe mental disorders won the Nobel Prize. Are they disabled? Is it possible to start by assuming that such a person can compensate for something that has something flawed really or something missing, that her brain is such a person, and even certain organs can compensate for it in other ways and that this person becomes actually more valuable than us who have all these things or who don't have them all? And that's not why I'd talk about this problem in a way that pitys these people, but a really correct relationship, and given the fact. We have in medicine, I no longer see here these fellow doctors who are what I really don't like but I see fellow Reiner knows that a man can live without one kidney and take over this other one of his functions and do it well. And if they looked only from those aspects then they'd say here's no kidney, he's disabled. So the problem of disability is something that is extremely complex, extremely complex and extremely important. And the worst fact is the stigmatization of such persons who then begin with me would say hypocritical compassion and regret. Such people just need a chance, and I assure you that when they get a chance to know you, they'll take advantage of it. And now I'd like to stay a little longer on people with mental disorders. Is it necessary for a person with mental disorders to be disabled? It's not. The one who says that doesn't know, doesn't understand, and it's tragic. A person with mental disorders can have an extremely serious mental illness and in a particular illness can be intellectually stronger, there are more energy, students with such disorders take exams faster and can work very hard. So to mark that person necessarily at that moment as a disabled person is a crime that then extends through his entire life and we need to talk about it. I can tell you that I once often refer to Western standards. I've been doing some clinical trials when it comes to medication, so I'll just tell you that the condition for participation in the study was six months of psychiatric stay. There were us from 20 countries, including America and Russia from the EU. You know who only accepted that? They accepted America and Russia. No one in Europe has accepted that. So, keeping someone in the hospital for six months just because of a clinical trial and these are the facts that we need to keep in mind. On the other hand, this forced hospitalization has no time, it has to take care of how to solve the problem when we have it and not the declarations that someone has given us because protecting human rights and the solution to the current problem is not the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11630	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. She's the first one to be the esteemed representative of Angel Strike. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11631	Mr. President, thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, distinguished MPs and MPs. Comrade Hrg, you have stated that it would be desirable that already in high schools students slowly sensitize for the needs of people with disabilities or I suppose you even thought it would be good to hire people with disabilities. One such good example is a secondary vocational school in Varazdin where workshops where students learn their craft are employed by people with disabilities. So there are already a whole series of good examples in practice that should only be seen where and how it is possible to apply them in the rest of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11632	Thank you. Here will be answered by the distinguished representative Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11633	Thank you, dear fellow Striker. Well, I absolutely welcome that, I think everyone can say hello, that it's a good example. And as it is said here, in a few debates, we generally give too few of these age examples to the public. Most of the time, there's always some bad things going on, and these good things don't work out. It is likely that showing such good examples could trigger more examples than pointing to bad things. Even though bad things should be pointed out. It's the same, so it's a similar case with me in the Chrysovci. We've established a company, a social enterprise where assistant chefs, waiters and pastries and produce chocolate. So there are wonderful examples.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11634	Thank you very much. The next replica is the distinguished MPs Gordana Rusak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11635	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm trying to understand Mr. Hrg's proposal on how to replace professional teams in schools with a centre that would then serve, provide services for a particular region, municipality or whatever they call it. I'm trying to figure it out, but it's not going very well for me. As far as I can remember, a child is usually sent to a school to talk to a pedagogogog or psychologist when he commits an incompetence. What would that be in this case? Would they pay for a cab and take the baby to that center and return it or would there be any other solution? I think it's a good idea to save, but it's inconclusive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11636	Thank you. The esteemed representative Branko Hrg will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11637	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, thank you so much for this question and for the opportunity to say two more, three sentences. But I'll give you the elaborate document we made. You don't need a cab, because in the middle of a micro-location, let's say one of the former municipalities by '93. the year, so the city and 4 surrounding municipalities are all available in about 15 minutes. So this is about a mobile team. So, not some center where the kids are brought in, no. It's about a professional team coming to school, he's going out. So he's practically mobile, and that's how he observes a particular one, solves the problem. But it's not only one person who solves it. What do we got now? We have a social worker and pedagogogogical school, for example. And something happens. No psychologists, no defecologists, I don't know the logos come on ok. The second story there is already systematic work. And like this, you get practically one whole team that can really talk to both parents and the child and the teacher. So, one complete, complete story. I'll give you a elaborate project.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11638	Thank you very much. We will now cross over to the next club of representatives, which is the Club of Representatives of HSU and in whose name will speak the distinguished representative Marija Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11639	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Deputy Attorney-General with colleagues and colleagues. First of all, let me say that I would agree with the esteemed representative Dodig who says that 10 or 15 minutes, so if you will and an hour is not and can't be enough for such a sensitive and complex group of people and, of course, their status in our society. That's why it's worth it for sure, but, of course, within the Rules of Procedure, we can't go on longer than that, so we say something like this in a hurry, not until the end. In this regard, while listening to the presentation of the report on the work of the Ombudsman for disabled persons for 2015, I would say, in the context of the main problems that the Ombudsman points out, which are met by persons with disabilities. It is only by reading the full counsel’s report that it is possible to learn about all the complexity of the problems faced by people with disabilities in almost all areas of life. Despite the definition of the Republic of Croatia as a social model of disability and obligations made by ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, it will guarantee equality for persons with disabilities in the exercise of fundamental human rights. We must note that in our society there is still one that I would say the medical model of relations with people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties, which is particularly highlighted in the field of education, employment and accessibility. We are a society where attitudes prevail that disability is a personal problem for the individual and his family, that children with difficulties should be educated in certain special schools and that people with disabilities cannot work. With such consequences, we meet almost daily, and it is still considered exceptional that a child with developmental difficulties is educated in regular schools, that he grows up and is educated together with his peers, that a person with disabilities can work and be successful if we provide him with conditions adapted to her disability. It is defeating the fact that we have as many as 18% of people with disabilities who are poor, and the reduction of budgets for fees that are made based on disability is considered inadmissible and extremely insensitive to those who are weakest and most vulnerable. In addition, all benefits are nominally among the lowest not only in Europe but also in the countries of the environment. For example, I cite that the higher amount of compensation for assistance and care in BiH has less GDP and is more economically underdeveloped. We believe that it is our responsibility to preserve the level of care achieved, of course, and to improve on people with disabilities. It is equally unacceptable to allow the Social Care Act to continue to remove the personal disability of a person with disabilities if employed or in any way work is activated. With this legal provision, we detimize people with disabilities to education and employment rather than encourage any person with disabilities to use their remaining abilities, to lead a full life, to pay contributions, to use all products and services and to live a life similar to or to all of us. Instead, we passiveize them, experience them not as equal members but only as users of social benefits. They worry about the data that the obligation of quota employment has met only a third of the employers, and even more so we must be characterised by the public advances of individual employers who have paid compensation for failing to comply with the employment obligations of persons with disabilities as compulsory. Despite the legal possibility of using replacement quotas, it is surprising that out of the total number of employers who are bonds of employment of persons with disabilities, who exceed the number of 8000 of them 130 have identified them as substitute quotas. These data speak of a devastating low level of awareness of the values and abilities of people with disabilities. It is interesting that this obligation is not met by those state bodies, which should be an example of respecting legal obligations such as various ministries, and even more surprising that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports is the worst in respect of respecting the legal obligation of quota employment, and it is no wonder that the most complaints made to the Advocates for not respecting the right of advantage are recorded precisely on educational institutions. We consider the obligation of the state to provide minimum standards in the development of services intended for children with disabilities and persons with disabilities. And it is an obligation for local and regional self-governments to record the state of need of their citizens and to adopt social plans to ensure the priority of meeting the needs of people with disabilities. Of course, the Government of the Republic of Croatia must pay particular attention to the final observations of the UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in particular in the section concerning the urgent recommendations that the Republic of Croatia should have taken within one year of its adoption. I would also refer to the question of women with disabilities as particularly sensitive categories at risk of multiple discrimination in all areas of life. Especially work and employment of domestic violence, medical care, education, participation in political and public life. In particular, the difficult situation of women with disabilities in rural areas, given the poorer education and employment of disabled women, is also more exposed to economic violence but also to neglect and social isolation, which represents a specific form of violence against women with disabilities. The fact is that women with disabilities live on their own to more than men with disabilities. The Ombudsman’s report is exhaustive in all areas shown in terms of detecting problems, difficulties, weaknesses in the system of care for persons with disabilities and is a good basis for lawmakers and decisions because it contains concrete proposals and recommendations for improving the system of care for persons with disabilities. We believe that it is our responsibility to preserve the level achieved but also to improve the system of care for people with disabilities. The club of HSU representatives and the independent list of Stipe Petrina will support the Attorney General's work for people with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11640	Thank you very much. The next one will be the HNS club on behalf of which the distinguished representative Nada Turina-Đuric will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11641	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Ombudsman's report for people with disabilities is usually high-quality and highlights key problems encountered by persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia. The report suggests that these problems that our disabled people face despite some good legal solutions are unfortunately not solved in a way that would satisfy, above all, those in that position and the adequate need of people with disabilities. So everything the Ombudsman pointed to in her report is absolutely acceptable for the Croatian People's Party and we will also support this report because we believe that accepting the report in this higher house is actually an incentive and support to solve problems and obstacles. It is not our job here in the Assembly to criticise the critical views of the attorneys she has made in this report or in the analysis of the situation and which are aimed at the needs of disabled people or at the need for problems to be solved, and we should insist here that laws be implemented first and foremost improved in favour of persons with disabilities. What is a much bigger problem for me, for us in HNS, is not a much bigger problem than the problem that our government who gave an opinion on this report has expressed itself completely neutrally in its opinion I would say in terms of giving an assessment to that report whether it is good, whether it is bad, whether it is some sort of mediocre one. So there's no evaluations in the opinion. But in an opinion that's quite extensive there's a whole series of tax-based gaps that are more or less related to some formal data. I'm surprised that I assume that the opinion wasn't written by whoever signed it, signed by the Prime Minister, but was written by someone from the D.O.D. However, it is strange that the data available to the Ombudsman and the data available to the ministry are obviously in some kind of reasoning, so it is corrected, in that opinion the statistics presented in the report are corrected, which I find completely absurd. I suppose they all use the sources of the same institutions, the state institutions and that they should match. And that is then more criticism to the ministry itself, if that is so than the criticism should be addressed through the government's opinion to the prosecutor, or according to her report. It is a shame that the lawyer's term of office has expired, that today this item of the agenda has been put before us without prior notice, that at this moment as we discuss this item of the agenda, the direct contribution of the session of the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest which decides on the potential conflict of interest of the first Deputy Prime Minister who is in the resignation. It speaks of how much this House's leadership, how much this country's leadership holds to the dignity of people with disabilities that we find absolutely unacceptable. So this topic was never supposed to be in this timing, so no matter what happened today or tomorrow or this week or this week, this topic deserved to have a better treatment in this high house and to be constructively and with the full engagement of all Parliamentarians. But unfortunately that's not so, we don't have a lawyer because we missed or the government missed her selecting her in time. With us is a deputy who also stands out these days according to the information that we have and it is simply something that re-emerges on the institutions of this country, i.e. the highest institution of this state, that is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and this Croatian Parliament, which discusses this report in such a situation. What she would say about the opinion means to the government, this opinion of the Government is, in fact, positious with the Ombudsman in relation to this information that I was just talking about, but it is also poremising with the contents of the Family Law or the details in the report relating to the Family Law. It is clearly the same opinion that the Government or the competent ministry does not support this Family Law but I absolutely do not think it is a place and I find it legitimate, but I do not think it is a place for the opinion given in the report on the work of the Ombudsman within that opinion to be polymised with the content of the Family Law. Another detail that one colleague spoke of before me, which is that in that view the government also inadmissiblely allows itself to explain the position of the different positions of people with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia. So starting positions in terms of the realisation of their rights related naturally to people with disabilities from the Homeland War. And he says actually one very offensive sentence, he says they have a special status as people with disabilities from the Homeland War because they have voluntarily become disabled. I think something like that, something like that needs to be pointed at from this place. Sadly, no one was willing to become disabled voluntarily so that he could have some rights. And what some have already pointed out as colleagues here and is the position of the CNS, we also support the Ombudsman in the view that all people with disabilities must have equal starting rights, that their rights cannot stem from the situation where disability is created but that their rights stem from the degree of their disability. All other rights that we want to provide to other social groups, and in this case, defenders should be dealt with and regulated in other ways, i.e. through other laws and through other rights. I'm sure you don't. In this report, the Government of the Republic of Croatia should be concerned, i.e. it should be encouraged to consider that our institutions, in fact, the Government itself, and we, as a legislative authority, are not doing enough, that we are exaggerating the administration, that we have not removed many administrative barriers and barriers, as unfortunately we are not yet physical barriers and we have been obliged to do so by law, we have removed them from our people with disabilities. This should worry them, they should be concerned about how to improve the laws on how to remove these barriers, how to ensure that these people live decent lives and ensure that they are included in society and in all social and economic flows, not that they are critically related to certain data and calls for some of the laws within that opinion that has been given. And in addition to what I said, I'm going to take another specific part of this report very briefly and it's going to be relevant because it's going to get up to date very quickly. And very soon we will probably face the problem that our children who have disabilities, who attend our schools will not all be covered or will not be sufficiently covered by the assistants in the follow-up that they need. So our schools before, so over these months, they deliver the needs of evaluated assistants. It has not been a year, unfortunately, and even in the former government, that there were no problems with the lack of assistants in the teaching or assistants, that the means were not provided, and that was then covered in various ways, combined to cover it during the first term, and then the units of local self-government with additional funds jumped in. It's mostly not systemically solved. And I'm afraid with this plan that's coming up next year, those problems will be again next year. And that's actually just one example, one model of how we work badly when it comes to people with disabilities. So they should not be the ones who are going to be in a position to go to school on the 1st day of the year without knowing, that is, that they are not approved by an assistant in the follow-up that gives them support because, unfortunately, here it is from year to year repeating itself as one bad practice. So I'm calling here to make sure that the departments in charge do everything in good time that this and this and the next school year don't happen. And we also call for children who go to kindergartens, which means too often, and that's also said, too often, situations happen that unfortunately children with developmental difficulties and disability cannot be accepted into regular kindergarten programs because there are no conditions, or standards are not provided. Of course it's not possible everywhere, and it's not possible to fix everything right now. However, there is also a problem that there is no good will to get rid of it through kindergarten institutions and there are examples in the report of what problems parents had with their children, about where they were told you can bring the child into kindergarten but you will have to be in kindergarten all day, because we have no guaranteed human resources to follow. So this is something that we think is inadmissible and that these solutions must be systematic, that data must be monitored about what needs and how many such children should go to school because where we have and where we have good experience, where those children are in the preschool system, these children have extremely large shifts in their development, in their potentials that they have if they are involved in preschool and go into this programme of course according to a specific programme. Here is something that is particularly pointed out, parents are in big trouble when they come to the wall of such inability or stopping their rights, so I call here to both the state and all the institutions to do everything in order to fix it in a future irregular period. I repeat again, the HNS will support the Attorney General's report for disabled persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11642	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused several replicas. The first is the distinguished representative of Maria Budimir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11643	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues Đurić, here is a major part of your exposure that can be agreed because everyone here today who spoke is aware of the problems of people with disabilities. Whether it's lower age, whether it's children, whether it's adults, whether it's women, employment. In this part, when you spoke to the assistants in the class, yes, here we have a new school year coming up. We've seen the Ministry have already announced a tender for associations, for the local community. I will say, for example, the city from which I come, the city of Vukovar which has been providing assistants for many years, assistants in the follow-up and children with disabilities or children with developmental difficulties and for the kindergarten group and for primary schools which is just here, regardless of what the town of Vukovar is a place of special care, means it is only a matter of the manager, or the mayor or the mayor and of course the budget, but whether the smaller funds will be directed to some sports, cultural association or any other way, because of course we are aware that the budget depends and financing of these assistants but if we are saying that these are vulnerable groups, whether it is children and if it is necessary for their education, for their education, that the opportunities can always be found not only on projects that we depend on the Ministry of Science and Education. And in this part of the debate when you said that it was not clear to me exactly who you are, who you are complaining about whether our fellow MPs, who at this time are watching the transfer of the commission, who are not here, are not discussing the report with us, whether it was the HRT that interrupted the transfer of the session of the Assembly in order to transfer the commission, or so that in this section here, I did not fully understand who you were complaining about. We who are here are discussing this report and I believe that this report will be adequate and in some way combined with our observations in the coming years and some measures and in our government, ministries and adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11644	Thank you very much. The distinguished representative Nada Turina-Đuric will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11645	Dear fellow Members, I agree with everything you have said in the replica especially the part relating to the support of this report or the problems we face and the need for these problems to be solved. I would agree with you, yes, local self-government often jumps in, I would say, like that institution that solves intervention problems especially when it comes to that local self-government that also has founding rights over schools, so in the case of primary schools, these major cities are usually so they have a duty in some way. However, you in the Republic of Croatia have a whole series of smaller local self-governments that have no fundamental rights over their primary schools, Vukovar has no, here I didn't know and where in essence this obligation that, especially with regard to the functioning of education, is not an electoral obligation of local self-government, and then, by seizing out of course, these funds must be cut off by something else or someone else in order to solve this problem that should be systematically solved. So I pointed that out. So, the state should systematically address it in a way that these needs are accurate, that they are known in advance and that they are covered by funds from the budget or by some other means like we had and we have the possibility of withdrawing funds from the European Funds. I complained, not every honor to all colleagues who participate in this debate today, but what is not good, is not a good timing chosen for it, here in some way we resent, we resent those who have put on the agenda knowing because what is going to happen today has been announced, and what is going to be more interesting in the media, that this topic is being put on the agenda today, it's not good. There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11646	Of course, I have to comment on that because it's interesting how the opposition once suits them to put something on, it doesn't fit them once, and we'd like to manage the work of the Parliament which may be possible after the next elections, but at this point, I'm sure they can't. And we're going in that order that's established here, right here in this hall, and you've all accepted it, and now the events that happen naturally affect or don't affect that work of ours. However, we should not influence. I'm going back to that topic that I've already mentioned, that I'm sorry that, in particular, some of us who have very much advocated it, to discuss it and to show great care, there are none and unfortunately the hall is now something more full, in one period we were only the 6th, now it's a little better but it's not enough sometimes verbally to show great concern for people with disabilities than it is showing that we are here, that we are discussing etc. Well, thank you very much. The next replica is that respected representative of Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11647	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, I didn't really understand you in this section when you said it wasn't right to be discussing the Attorney General's Report for Persons with Disabilities because something else is being broadcast on TV. Should we really even publicly admit that we are making a circus out of this House? I'll say that I answered the line just to let you maybe say something about the report itself because you were mostly talking about the government's opinion, and I'm talking about the prosecutor's report for 2015. And then after your further discussion, I have a few things I don't agree with you. So, you were talking about a competition for assistants in class, just before my colleague mentioned something. Let me remind you, last year there were competitions in the seventh month, and the whole nine months didn't have assistants in the class because they were just stalking each other, preparing everything together. Competitions are now scheduled for June 2nd and will be made that children have 1.9th of their assistants in follow-up. I also welcome last year's tendering, the introduction of that model, and I welcome it, and I don't consider it too bad that it was a little late, and this year it started on time. And you were talking about standards in kindergartens and goodwill. So let me remind you a little bit. Good will in kindergartens and local self-government is tied to this sort of thing a little bit and money. In the last few years of the former government and parliament's decisions, the majority of the parliament's local self-government had been taken 2 and a half billion kunas for decentralised functions and billions and 100 million kunas of those regular money that had previously been amended by only one law. So now I'm asking you how to resolve a good will?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11648	Thank you very much. The distinguished representative Nada Turina Đuric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11649	I don't know how you didn't get me. Well, I mean, I guess you realize that for 15 days or maybe even more, unfortunately, the Republic of Croatia is functioning without the government. That the government hasn't worked for a long time, and the fact that you haven't been able to choose a new lawyer for people with disabilities, so I don't know what should be further explained here. As for the assistants in the class and these teams, what you said about calling the competition. I also said in my debate that everything was not perfect in the past period, so I was critical or if you want to be self-critical. It means that precisely because the input data related to the number of people that should have been hired in the first place and the actual data we faced at the beginning of the school year were unfortunately not consistent, then in various ways it was solved at the beginning of the school year that you said nicely we were stalking each other. And I was just trying to warn that something like that, it's unforgivable that it happens when it comes to people with disabilities, or people with disabilities. In that sense, I was well-intentioned. And you're right about kindergarten, too. Everything is connected to money when it comes to the state, i.e. the functioning of administration and state and self-government. And certainly that money and budgets are something that is our limiting factor at the level of local self-government. But you always know when it comes to these things it's a matter of priority and need.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11650	Thank you very much. The next replica is distinguished MP Margareta Mađeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11651	Thank you, Mr. President. About this part of why this point came to the meeting of the Croatian Parliament right now. I wouldn't be involved in political disputes here because I think the attorney general's report on the work for people with disabilities is a question where we should definitely all be unique. And that all of us who are now taking part in the debate and who have reported or argued that we have not called for a debate over the transmission of television, but because of true desire and will and because of the most important objective of integration of persons with disabilities into society and that they have equal rights which are guaranteed between them and the Constitution and which must have as healthy persons. And on the other hand, I would also point out to the distinguished representative, some fellow MPs and reps related to terminology. So there's no term for disabled people, there's a person with disabilities. There is no term for children with special needs, but for children with developmental difficulties. You're not children, but some colleagues are other agents. Thus, the 2003 Declaration brought together the terminology of people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties because both children and persons with disabilities do not have special needs. They have the same needs as healthy persons, and in society, on the highest state bodies of local self-government units and all those involved in the socio-political life of the Republic of Croatia is the main task of providing them with the same needs as healthy persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11652	Thank you very much. The distinguished representative Nada Turina Đuric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11653	Thank you very much. My colleague Mađarić, it is not a matter of whether some of us like to watch on television, or whether they like to be watched on television when they are discussing a topic, but rather whether the focus of the whole public is unfortunately directed at something completely different and that it is a pity that it is done and that, especially people with disabilities who very carefully, I know it backwards for four years, very closely following the debate in the Parliament that is now excluded. And I wasn't talking about wanting to be heard or seen by people with disabilities on TV because of me, but because of all of us and our focus on problems and pointing out the problems that that group of people has. That's the problem. And that's why I said I didn't think it was good. But that's what it is, isn't it? That maybe it could have been done differently. I appreciate everything you said to the president in your address, but I think it might have been better.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11654	Thank you. The next and last replica is the distinguished representatives of Štefanija Damjanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11655	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. I agree with your presentation, and I would only add that people with disabilities are the most sensitive groups of our citizens. The Croatian legislative framework detimises inclusion in the labour market, incomes generated by persons with disabilities from work constitute a legal obstacle to the achievement of certain social benefits. What we, as citizens, can do is we adopt and amend laws, so I think that the bill in this context will also make it possible for people with disabilities who give individual additional strength and effort to improve their way of life that we, as a society, have to enable them to do so. And what I would also like to point out is that there is insufficient institutional support for women with disabilities in achieving family roles. There we have made an appointment as a society and we have a great space to facilitate and simplify their lives and to integrate as easily as possible into society as equal citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11656	Thank you very much. Will the honourable representative answer? He won't answer, nothing then. Thank you. Then we'll move on to individual debates. This is where the distinguished representative Margareta Mađeric came in, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11657	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All that has been said today, what has been said as the Deputy Assistant Attorney for Persons with Disabilities pointed out, all the topics we discussed and related to the standard and life of people with disabilities are actually the biggest problems facing people with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia. In 2015, compared to 2014, there was an increase in the appeal of citizens to the Ombudsman by around 20%, which shows that the Ombudsman also justified its purpose of existence and that persons with disabilities had just found an institution where they could address and seek their adequate protection of rights and all the problems they addressed. Unfortunately, the majority of infringements of the right are guaranteed by law or by the Constitution as a group of persons with disabilities or violations of rights due to the long-term nature of the procedure. There were mostly such rights in the field of social protection. Also, the largest type of violation of rights has just been guaranteed by the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Much of the address was related in the field of education while the rights to other international documents were most frequently violated in the area of pension insurance. The suspicion of discrimination is most often identified in the area of accessibility or access to goods and services, and it is exactly what we discussed here today, a major problem of course of financial nature, as well as a unit of local self-government, municipalities, cities and counties that are obliged to institutions owned by units of local self-government, and a state that owns state institutions and facilities adapts it to persons with disabilities. And while the last such object will not be adapted we cannot and must not be satisfied. The feeling of discrimination in people with disabilities mostly stems from the discrepancies between the legal rules governing the rights of persons with disabilities and their implementation in everyday life. In 2015, the Ombudsman handled 97 complaints, the most common form of discrimination being the failure of reasonable adjustment, especially in the areas of access to goods and services, employment and work, education and social protection. And the recommendations of the UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is that the concept of reasonable adaptation and universal design should be regulated beyond the context of legislation on the prevention of discrimination in the fields of education, health, transport and construction. As we could hear in today's debates, the most complaints, so 258 of them, were from the area of social protection. And this is the area that has remained in the first place for the past seven years in the complaints received by those who spoke to the Ombudsman about people with disabilities. The fact that there are still the largest number of complaints from persons with disabilities in the field of social protection suggests that their standard of living is at risk. According to the Croatian Institute of Public Health, about 18 people with disabilities live in conditions of poverty. This is why the problem of almost 19.5% of the population living at risk in 2015, so on the very edge of poverty, people with disabilities who receive disability benefits are actually spent on existential needs. So, everyday things to survive. And these fees are designed to enable people with disabilities to rehabilitate, improve their standard of quality, and anything that actually healthy people do not meet. There's also a problem with parenting status. According to the December 2015 data, this status was used by 3411 people, while the right to care was used by 65 people. In total, 3476 people benefited from that right. Compared data from 2014 show an increase of 128 users of the care provider’s or parent’s rights. However, when we talk about the status of the guardian’s parents, the Ombudsman pointed out that this right should be ensured by a wider circle of users and, in all cases, when ensuring that the person in the family remains and in a particular environment. Amendments and additions to the Social Care Act are not provided for nor are the lawyer’s proposals regarding the definition of the right to the parent status and what can also be read from the report that the Ombudsman addressed the Constitutional Court with a proposal to initiate the procedure for the assessment of the consent of the law with the Constitution. There is still no decision on the proposal, but I think that in this part too, the work of the assistants in continuing to pay more attention and, of course, more financial resources. In addition, despite the regulated system of professional rehabilitation defined by the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities and the detailed rules on professional rehabilitation and centres for professional rehabilitation of persons with disabilities in 2015, it was not implemented according to those regulations. The reason is the unfair establishment of a Centre for Professional Rehabilitation, whose establishment was scheduled for 1 January 2015. In order to fully integrate people with disabilities into the community and society in which they live, it is most important to enable them to work, children with difficulties in developing education, attending kindergartens, schools with their peers, and this is the task of all those who participate in socio-political life both in municipalities, cities, counties and the Republic of Croatia. It was precisely in the field of employment and work in 2015 that 207 applications were received. Most often, they referred to a violation of the right to the advantage of employment. However, the adoption of the Employment and Rehabilitation Act introduced quota employment. From statistical indicators, we see that it has produced results, that the number of people with disabilities has increased, but there are still problems related to the unadjustment of the working environment, architectural and communication barriers. Despite the particularly unfavourable educational structures which are the main obstacle to employment, it is certainly the primary goal of working on education for young people, children and persons with disabilities, and it is certain that during the records he had from the Croatian Institute, as I said from the Employment Office, that almost 39% of people with disabilities were employed in 2015 rather than in 2014. It must be aimed at hiring as many people with disabilities as possible so that they can remain independent and lead an independent life. Accessibility, mobility and housing, therefore, are definitely with education and employment the biggest problems but also the most important objectives in meeting and integrating people with disabilities and solving their biggest problems. Access to goods and services is an area where people with disabilities are most often placed in a more unfavourable position based on people without disabilities, on healthy people. 97 complaints were received, 69 of which related to infringements of parking rights, abuse of access rights, use of services in road and rail transport, affordable housing and non-accessability of public service facilities. What I'm sure of is those 97 complaints may be just 1% of the real complaints that people with disabilities and their companions, family members who are moving in with them daily are facing each other. I believe that almost every day, one person with disabilities faces precisely the problem of mobility and inaccessibility and that is one of the most important objectives with employment and education, which must also be respected by the relevant ministries and units of local self-government, which is consistent between the other and the fundamental human right to mobility of all persons regardless of their disability or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11658	Thank you very much. And your exposure has caused more replicas. The first is the distinguished representative, Nada Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11659	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Mađerić, I will refer my replica to you perhaps not for what was in your debate but for what perhaps we should have pointed out in the debate. There have been talk of various segments in society and situations where people with disabilities are discriminated against or whose situation they are in a difficult situation. However, we are now in the assembly a lot of women but we have talked little about the position of women with disabilities and it is known that they are threefold discriminated against women, their sex and their disability. In particular, women who are alive and born and remain in rural areas where they are deprived of education, where prejudices have particularly ruled them out. And if they stay in the families then they usually have the status of maids and because of their lack of education, they are very often unemployed and their fate or staying in such a family or going to an institution. In your political work as a member of the Zagreb Assembly and as president of the Committee on Gender Equality in the field of women's position and equality, you have really recognized and done a lot of work on whether we have talked enough about the status of women with disabilities or talked more about how much and how we should perceive in government and politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11660	Thank you very much. The distinguished representative Margareta Majeric will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11661	Thank you. Dear MPs, I fully accept your replica and surely that women with disabilities say triple, so sometimes even multiple are discriminated against by women, having disability, and then by the basis of that disability, they are disabled by many, many things that are accessible to healthy people and that are, so we can say, perceived as being something that is normal. Education, employment and the daily problems facing women with disabilities are one big problem especially in rural areas. I'm sure we'll discuss it nationalally, and we should do it that way and direct the debate. The city of Zagreb also has the largest budget and the largest financial resources is the capital of the Republic of Croatia, the European and the world's metropolis and has indeed done much about the position of people with disabilities and women with disabilities. There is adequate and health care in the city of Zagreb, so from gynological tables, dental examinations and all other medical examinations for women with disabilities, but we cannot and should not be satisfied until in every city, women with disabilities can not, for example. gynaecological examination. Can you imagine what it's like for healthy women from a small town or from a village to get a checkup in Zagreb, and how disabled it is then for women with disabilities. In this way, they are also denied their fundamental human right, which is the right to health. And we need to insist on the development and health system and general protection of women with disabilities because, as you said yourself, as we know often, they are repeatedly discriminated against.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11662	Thank you very much. The next replica is distinguished representatives of Nada Turine-Djuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11663	My colleague Mađerić, you have prepared your debate very well, you have spoken very well and you have stood up for me, I would say very important and crucial problems that people with disabilities have and come from reports which are the key problems they face. So for that reason, I'm going to go back to part of my debate, which is to point out the situation we're in. Such debates as you did today were a year, two or three days ago in Parliament were tens, so, I remember one day and a half, so we discussed the whole day until late, and the next day we discussed until somewhere, until the break and all the discussions were very constructive and pointed out the real problems, and it is important that this report is discussed and the more it speaks and that the public recognizes it. So in my debate, I pointed out that this timing was not good. Why? Because through our debates and through the apparition of the problems and support that we provide to address these problems, we sensitize the general public and all citizens in the Republic of Croatia. In a way, we also put pressure on those who do not comply with the laws and should in various segments, which is visible from the report. And it's just too bad, I have to point out that we haven't taken advantage of it, and we're not taking advantage of that opportunity like we used it in some years when we talked about this report. And of course on that basis had some shifts. These shifts are always relatively small, not enough, not what we expect but every year and every report still moves the thing one small step forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11664	Thank you very much. The distinguished representative Margareta Majeric will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11665	Dear MPs, I absolutely agree with you. I am really sorry that SDP representatives and MPs who have called for a debate on the report on the work of the Ombudsman for people with disabilities in order to send another political message have withdrawn their debates. And by replicating the previous replicas, I have just pointed out that this topic is definitely not and must not be a place of political reckoning. The Ombudsman's report on the work of persons with disabilities should not be a place where SDP will send some political messages, either at the very beginning of today's session, through the press or some other possibilities based on the Rules of Procedure and generally political action. But that's their choice, and here I can't right now force my colleague to discuss one of these extremely important topics, which is the standard and life of people with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia. I'd be happy if we could discuss it by morning. I would immediately sign and also propose in the City Assembly of Zagreb once a year we have a thematic session to discuss and report on the strategy for people with disabilities and in general on the status of persons with disabilities in the city of Zagreb to introduce such practice in the Croatian Assembly and that we are all participating because it is a topic that we should not politically share. We must all think equally here because surely people with disabilities deserve at least the unity of all political parties here.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11666	Thank you very much. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11667	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleague Mađeric, so here are several times in the debates we have looked back at the employment of people with disabilities. We're glad that the number this time is 39% higher than the previous year. Of course, it is very important to adjust the workplace and working conditions not only as I have already said in the approach ramps but also in other conditions. And sometimes only an environment is enough to make it more flexible, or to make working conditions more flexible. We must not allow quota employment to be difficult, but here is the lawyer's report, and we have seen that the attorney general has sent all 20 ministries or requested data on quota employment, and five ministries have not even shown what is sad. We must be an example of how to help hire people with disabilities and the topic we have now looked back on at the very end, it is discrimination against women with disabilities. Of course we have to insist especially on health care institutions to adjust the conditions to ensure that women with disabilities at least the basic guaranteed part, here means that they have access to what you yourself said to gynaecological examinations. Of course, we should also advocate all health institutions to adapt to this, but here it says in the report that 18% of people with disabilities live in conditions of poverty, which is really scary and inadmissible at this time today, and of course we need to solve the problems of people with disabilities more quickly and efficiently.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11668	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Margareta Majeric will respond:
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11669	Thank you. It is regrettable that five ministries have not delivered the data at all. Therefore, they did not bother to provide data, whether or not they met the quota or not, and only 5 ministries respected the obligation of quota employment. So, out of 20 ministries, only 5. 25%. And how will we expect, then, that if the ministries do not, by example, employ the basis for a decision on the employment quota, then they will respect these decisions in the public and private sectors. So they are the ones who should be the first to follow the law and regulations and then to call out those who did not. And I believe that the ministries have fulfilled their task that, then, that percentage of almost 40% of the number of people with disabilities in 2015 would be even higher in 2014, therefore. And every year we lose, we all lose. Because I have extremely positive examples of employers who have hired a disabled person. They were mandatory on the basis of quota employment, but such good reactions were precisely done by colleagues and Murganic, said conscientious people, responsible, grateful for getting the opportunity to hire and do the job they were entrusted with, and trust me very well and very well-earned wages at the workplace they were doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11670	Thank you very much. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Maria Budimir, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11671	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Mađerić, here I have listened to your presentation on today's report by the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities, and it is likely that we would be discussing the rights of the national minority there were more discussions and more replicas because this is a group of people who make up one minority in our society but their rights are often threatened and you have singled out certain areas yourself. Are these architectural barriers, but these architectural barriers aren't just in the health care system for a year. They are also in the education system, we out of over 800 schools other than the newly built schools for many years, we do not have conditions for our children, whether they and children are in a wheelchair, whether in any way their disability that does not allow them to school, are often schools and on two floors, do not have a ramp to enter, etc., etc. It's been a long number of years, it's already a long series of our failures and yes, I'll agree we are both in a way and hypocritical society. Here in the past government, when these assistants in the follow-up became a systematic part, the systematic right of those students, a proposal was adopted, or a draft, or a proposal for a regulation on assistants in the teaching and professional communications intermediaries in accordance with the law. The public opinion has passed, however, but this rule has not come to life which we often bring to this very home certain laws but under legal acts in the end there is no and cannot be systematically concerned here in this segment and this area are both students and with developmental difficulties and in this report and the Ombudsman has touched a number of gaps which have already been experienced by parents and children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11672	Thank you very much. The distinguished representative Margareta Majeric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11673	Thank you, Mr. President. Since almost 15% of the population in Croatia are certainly disabled persons, the primary goal is to provide adequate care and basic fundamental human rights that all persons have regardless of their disability. Specially vulnerable groups and those who require special attention are disabled children. And because of that it was really sad to see the first day of school year 2015 on 2016 when children were happy, I believe everyone happy, these little older ones of course were saddened that the holidays ended up moving into school benches. The disabled children protested here at Mark's square because the former government and the former resolution ministry did not provide them with help in the follow-up. It's their fundamental human right. In this way all these children have experienced exactly what they should not, and being discriminated against, that they are different, and that they do not have the right to belong to them. Because teaching assistants are their basic need to be educated and to finish schools today, colleges, get a job and live as happily as their peers who have no disability.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11674	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Steve Cule. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11675	Dear Croats and Croats, I can see that he can't wait for me to pick up. In the protection of our most vulnerable disabled, I report for several reasons, and this is the first time that they should not be used by colleagues Mađeric especially in such events. And if they need to have an assist in teaching, they also need to have assistance in everyday life. So I will remember an association called "Bubamar" from Vinkovac, which has 1,300 members, which has hundreds of employees through its programmes, which also participated in EU competitions in projects just as well as assistance in life where twenty people are employed. I would also like to say in the employment of disabled people that in Croatia there are few companies that employ disabled people, and that in the past four years only two women have been employed in Vukovar-Srijem County. The association "Bubamara" is struggling now to open up entrepreneurship. I think catering would be about where people with disabilities would serve those who are interested in it, who have a need for it and encounter problems precisely because of those famous 1200 kunas that they have as their pension. I don't think that's appropriate to what that would mean to those people with disabilities. The disabled are particularly deprived because they are represented by one national foundation that receives money from lottery and gambling, which is shared by other organizations such as the Document, such as GONG and others who use these funds inappropriately, and since they are now cut off, our disabled are also cut off. And with these projects that go towards the EU, they have particular difficulties in creating both HZZO and the Lifelong Education Agency. 18 seconds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11676	Thank you. The distinguished representative Margareta Majeric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11677	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative of the disabled, we talked about it and I think it's important here to also point out and correct. I'm sure I'm glad that it's the Vukovar-Srijem County and the city of Vinkovci, as well as the other cities in the county, that's a positive example of the attitude towards people with disabilities. But both in the city of Zagreb and in most counties, NGOs are working hard and quality to improve and provide better standards for people with disabilities. I saw here a positive example was both representative and president of the Association of Students with Disabilities here from the city of Zagreb and there are a number of such associations. I would not dare point them out now at all because they would always abandon someone, and they do do work too hard, and they help in the best possible way not just people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties but their families and all the problems their families face. But what's important is that the ministries, the resolution ministries, are the drivers. The non-governmental sector cannot draw both for the ministries and for the executive power, because they do make a lot of money, but, of course, more adequate care is also needed for those whose primary and business is, and of course, more financial resources are needed.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11678	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the rapporteur, the word will be taken by the esteemed Mrs Mira Pekec Knezevic, Deputy Advocate for Persons with Disabilities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11679	Dear Mr. President, honourable MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Listening to your discussions today, maybe we have some things to explain, something to confirm, something to repeat. When Mr. Dodig spoke about it, he asked whether persons with mental disorders were persons with disabilities, then the answer offered by the Convention was yes. So, any person who has long-term damage as the Convention says, whether it's a physical, mental, intellectual, sensory damage is a person with disabilities if the obstacles that exist in the environment and obstacles prevent full participation in social life. Therefore, any person who has any damage, and because of this damage and environmental obstacles, cannot be engaged in any area, is a person with disabilities. Therefore, disability is due to the failure of society to respond to the needs of its citizens, and these are persons who have certain damages. The fact is that the disability of persons with mental and intellectual damage is invisible but is, such as the fact that these persons are exposed to isolation and are often subject to prejudices that are in the environment and which make participation in all areas of life more difficult and to perform certain activities. I might say one more thing, there was a lot of talk about hiring people with disabilities and even in some part of it was one of the suggestions that we should not impose an obligation on employers to employ a certain percentage of people with disabilities. I believe that as a society we are not enough to grow up to be, that our consciousness would be developed to such an extent that we believe that the issue of reputation and business policy, successful business policies would be to employ people with disabilities like today in developed countries. I hope that in a few years we will reach this level that we will not need someone to commit to hiring persons with disabilities and that it will be a free decision by employers who will realize that the contribution of people with disabilities is a matter of their good business policy. Because we must not forget that people with disabilities are users of service products. Therefore, employers should be interested in, among other things, hiring people with disabilities as they should be interested in and people with disabilities buying their products, using their services and what might be less known to be persons with disabilities who are tourists. We must also think about this because we are a tourist country that we need to adapt all tourist facilities to the needs of people with disabilities. When it comes to education, education in Croatia prepares neither persons nor children with developmental difficulties nor other children for future occupations. And we think it's high time that in the education system there had to be bigger steps in the sense that education would have to become the kind of person to prepare for future occupations. The same applies to people with disabilities. Why did Croatia, although the process takes several years of educational institutionalisation in this process, is slow and has not done enough? The main obstacle that we have pointed out in this report as well as in previous years is why too few persons located in large institutions are being moved from these institutions to other forms of organised life in the community with support. It is precisely the lack of services needed to ensure the lives of people with disabilities in communities that is a major obstacle to why the process is going so slowly. In the end, I might say that is the only thing we people with disabilities do not hire because they are disabled but because they are competent, professional and capable. And we need to leave these thoughts that there are special interests in people with disabilities. Because people with disabilities with adequate support can work in many professions. And that's where we've heard the thoughts of why we shouldn't switch telephone stations with people, with blind people, I'd say that experiences show that blind people are very successful in many occupations and we can't look at them as people we'll only train for the interests of telephoners. In conclusion, I'd like to say a few words. Following the position of persons with disabilities for the past 8 years, it has been evident that the Republic of Croatia has not sufficiently exploited the potential of disabled persons reflected in the lack of cross-resorship and the definition of clear long-term and realistic objectives. Today, as in earlier years, people with disabilities are largely left to social benefits that are insufficient, unencumbered and in certain segments and conflicting convention principles. Persons with disabilities are at the beginning of an unfavourable situation. On the one hand, because of the difficulty of access to education and employment, on the other hand because of excessive dependence on social benefits. It would be too simple for a whole policy towards people with disabilities to pay only. We haven't done enough if we don't give them the right to appropriate health care and rehabilitation, education, work, family and parenting rights, personal choices and life in the community. In order to improve the situation of persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia in each area, a number of changes should be made through synchronised legislation, cross-sectoral cooperation and focus on the coherent action of all social components. The report for the previous year is a picture of the condition and position of persons with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties during the observed period, identified problems and shortcomings in the exercise of rights in certain areas, as well as the objectives that we should follow as a society in the future. We appeal to lawmakers, political decisions, public policy makers at all levels to be guided in every segment of their actions by the need to provide support that will allow all citizens human dignity. We must not forget that missing a child’s rehabilitation is irreparable and that children with difficulties cannot wait for a better time. Let us not forget that we are all responsible for the equality of our fellow citizens with disabilities. The time and space we share is our common value without openness to differences, respect for the rights of others without genuine interest for the needs of others we cannot build a community of satisfied individuals. Everything that is said here will have no meaning and that weight that will have real and concrete works of ours. Thank you very much for your patience.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11680	Thank you very much. I hereby conclude the debate on this point. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Now, as usual, we'll have a break by 3:00, and at 3:00, we'll move on. The next point that comes to order is: - THE PROGRAMME OF THE DECISION OF THE ‘NATIONAL DAY OF AMBLIOPIA’. It's 13:30. She's a lawyer for people with disabilities. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the work of the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities for 2015. Please vote who's in favour? Thank you very much. 89 for, 3 abstentions, no one against. I find that most of the votes have come to the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11682	Here's a colleague. We're moving on with our work. The next item is: - Proposal for a decision to declare the National Day of Ambliopi. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Based on Article 172. Rules of Procedure. You've received the materials. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Committee on Law. Reports are in session days. Does the Proposer want a representative? Dear Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Ivan Bekavac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11683	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. Amblyopia or lack of visibility is defined as a reduction or loss of part of visual functions, visible acuity, perceptions of movement, feelings of depth of space, contrast differences without visible eye disease. The result of a developed amblyopia is the lack of maturation of the visual part of the brain due to insufficient visual stimulation. If during the early life of a child ambliopi may not be treated around can become functionally blind because after 7 years of life the development of the visible part of the brain is mostly completed. Risk factors for ambliosia occurred in more than 90% of cases of refractory errors and strabism or squinting, eye escape. Treatment of ambliopi depends on the cause. It is believed that by testing the apparent acuity of four-year-olds is the most reliable for detecting ambliosia since this simple test can detect up to 97% of all eye anomalies. In 10 developed countries early screening and treatment of amblyopia, public health policy has been implemented. Early treatment of ambliopia is among the most profitable procedures and the Nobel Prize for Medicine in 1981 was awarded precisely to explain the pathophysiological processes of ambliopia. The prevalination of ambliopi in the world is estimated to be about 5% and at least 200 thousand undersighted people live in the Republic of Croatia today. Only timely treatment can cure ambliopia in more than 90% of cases. The promotion of awareness of ambliopia is a continuous goal of Croatian society as a whole, therefore it is of particular importance to the initiative of the reference centre of the Ministry of Health for Child ophthalmology and Strabism at the clinic for eye clinics Holy Spirit to mark the National Day of Ambliosia on 12 September. Because the screening of vision reveals and treats ambliopia creates a healthy individual and thus society progresses with an identity recognised in the world by its developed awareness of the importance of children's health and unquestioned efforts to create a healthy society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11684	Thank you. Would the committee's reporters like to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. She applied for the debate on behalf of the HDZ Club, the distinguished representative, Marija Budimir.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11685	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister Mr. Bekavac, dear colleagues and colleagues. It is up to the agenda to announce the National Ambliosia Day. And I would like to remind you that so far in the Croatian Parliament only in the 7th session we had the declaration of the National Day of Multiple Sclerosis, the National Day of Nikola Tesla and the declaration of the National Day of Emergency Medical Service. And this year and in this conference we declared 2016, the year of Nikola Šubić Zrinski. Today, as I said, we're discussing the decision to declare Ambliopi Day on September 12th. Ambliopia or as they still call it, is the appearance of impaired vision on the eye without any pathological changes being seen in the eye. By investigating this disease and the problem, therefore, amblyopia, I was able to learn that its cause is a physiological disorder in the brain, or in the eyesight center. In a flat childhood while still seeing one eye develops, one eye can see weaker due to strabism or from a refractory anomaly. It is important to mention if this disorder is not removed in time, the brain will suppress visible information coming from a weaker eye and the visual centre will remain insufficiently acceptable to that information. That is why it is very important for the ambliopia to be revealed in time. In addition to determining good visual correction, i.e. correction of vision with glasses, the best amblyopia therapy is how I managed to understand the timely closing of a better eye and exercise of vision in the weaker eye. Sometimes it is also necessary to operate to get the eyes in the right position and to allow both eyes to look at each other at the same time. This unfortunate disease or disorder is estimated to be 1-5% of the population. Amblyopia usually affects one eye in most cases but can also be mutual. When both eyes cannot create a clear picture on the retina equally. Of course, this causes terrible difficulties to a person who has ambliopia. As I have already said, recognising this condition in early childhood increases the chances of successful treatment because as it says in this proposal, childhood increases the chances, so for children after 7 years of life, the development of the visual part of the brain is mostly done. The decision we have ahead of us states that even in a dozen countries in the world early harvesting and detecting amblyopia and its treatment belong to public health policy. Her early treatment is among the most profitable procedures. It's important because part of the brain that receives visible information from the affected eye is not adequately stimulated so it doesn't develop properly. This proved direct brain examinations and David Hobel and... In 1981, they received the Nobel Prize for Medicine. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It also states that the World Health Organization has launched a global initiative to reduce preventive vision loss by urging all countries of the world to contribute locally to this initiative by 2020. Here is the Government of the Republic of Croatia today, here in the Croatian Parliament, and it is doing and giving its pain by declaring the 12th of September "The National Day of Amblyopia". I believe that we are all going to support this proposal here and because in the end to those who have this disorder it means a lot and it is the least that can be done for and for them. In our country it says there are about 200 thousand and with timely treatment it is treatable in 90% of the cases. Therefore, it is commendable and commendable to the reference centre of the Ministry of Health for children's ophthalmology and strabism at the clinic for eye hospitals at St. Spirit Hospital in Zagreb. This is certainly commendable and should continue to be supported as much as possible because as I told the people who have this ungrateful disorder is the most difficult and our help they need, especially if it can be prevented and treated. By studying the problem of ambliosia, I noticed that a large number of people with ambliopia, especially those with mild disorder, are often not aware of their illness until the age of older, since vision has been sustained. However, people with severe ambliopia suffer from visual disturbances, particularly poor depth perceptions. In addition, weak spatial acuity, poor perception of contrasts, and some more sophisticated visual disorders such as weakened perception of movement can develop. Disorders have been reported usually specific to amblipia. Symptoms also include binocular vision disorder such as limited stereoscopic depth perception, and the patient usually finds it difficult to detect hidden three-dimensional images such as those shown in autostereograms. Normal remains the perception of depth obtained by one eye. Size, perspective, parallax movement. I learned that ambliopi can occur physiologically as a result of the long-term consumption of nicotine or alcohol consumption, which is an additional reason for the need for awareness and education of this disease. That's why I'm glad we're talking about it here in the Croatian Parliament today. So as far as we know and how to read about ambliopia, there are three types of the same, and these are amblyopia due to strabism, amblyopia due to the refractive error and ambliopia due to the lack of use and ambliopia due to the occlusion. As for ambliopi treatment, and if the greatest success was achieved, if treatment was initiated 5 years ago, research has shown that improvement can occur in children over the age of ten and some adults. Unlike untreated children, children between the ages of 7 and 12 who had a better eye than those who performed orthopaedic exercises had a 4-fold chance of improving the apparent acuity with two lines on standard snowboards. Adolescents between 13 and 17 also showed improvement but in a small extent. I believe that all of us in the Croatian Parliament will support this proposal for a decision and thus succeed in raising awareness of amblipia. Finally, the HDZ Club will support the announcement of the 12th of September National Amblio Day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11686	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11687	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd just like to point out to this occasion how important prevention is. The declaration of the day of course we support, however, should not remain solely for the declared act of declaration this day. It should be pointed out to what extent it is important that all children go to the examination in time. I would like to point out on this occasion the move of Minister Varga from the previous assembly that has made the decision that all children are no longer awaiting enrolment in school when a 7-year-old review was required, which is too late than decided that every child aged 4 must go on a vision check-up because it is during that period of up to 7 years that can prevent all the consequences resulting from being a consequence of ambliopia. Therefore, of course we support this decision but we insist that it is not just another day that we mark order for, but that daily through preventive activities in the system of the Ministry of Health which is unfortunately in the past term of this government are completely neglected to do much more to prevent all diseases that can ultimately lead to all these children living healthy. After all, today we have also weak-sighted and blind people who have also doctored. Thus, it is essential that these children develop their abilities to the maximum despite their lack of visibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11688	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Maria Budimir.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11689	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Jovanovic, I agree with you of course. More and more children are undersighted and, of course, with that and in some ways, their schooling has been difficult. If that's the reason, here's the progress of technology. We're all aware of how our kids used to be here, we only had computers with big screens, so we started with laptops. Now we have an iPod, we have an iPhone, the screen is getting smaller, the letters are also, and our children have been used since the earliest age. Whether it's cause or not, we'll leave it to doctors and experts. And I agree that we can't just talk more and more about this problem on a national day of declaration of ambliosia and how here at school, I think if we now had results in front of us more and more kids are wearing our glasses. Vision is important and we know that general health is the greatest wealth. When we lose him, then we appreciate him, and so does sight. But we must not ignore all that population that has problems and difficulties whether it is impaired vision, hearing or any other deficiency that we have already had to talk about today when it was on the agenda of the Ombudsman’s report for children and persons with disabilities. Therefore, I think that in any case not only this declaration of the National Day of Amblyopia, and we adults can often ask ourselves how and how to prevent and develop these diseases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11690	Thank you. Next replica, the distinguished representative of Ladislav Ilčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11691	Dear Mrs. Budimir. I'd just like to add to what you've been saying another value, which is the value of solidarity. So surely, people with visual difficulties would be much easier if all other people understood their situation. And I think this very day is one chance for us all to better understand how they feel. I know there's been some kind of exercise, that people were able to tie their eyes to see what it was like for people who didn't see it, so they walked. I don't know, they were run by a dog, and in every case, when something like that happens, when a healthy person tries something like that, he certainly understands it a lot better, and he thinks about people with vision problems. Also, when children were led to special schools that they associated with children with any difficulty, any physical, any others, these children showed much greater solidarity of understanding for those persons. So I think that here's the announcement this day in any case would help this solidarity, and that solidarity, I think, will be crucial to the better position of those people in society.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11692	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Maria Budimir.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11693	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Ilčić, I agree fully with you, the development of solidarity is something that we would often grow up to do and should develop among our children and students especially when it comes to any difficulty. Here is where, just for a moment today, we would close our eyes here, both eyes and try to move around the Croatian Assembly, I think it would be difficult for us, and let alone, I often feel after a full day's stay here that my vision is weakened too, whether it's because of artificial light or looking at the laptop and these papers. And I think we should be solid about these people who have visual impairment and other damages that you've listed yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11694	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11695	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here, as we can see, there are not many debates on this subject, and my debate may not last so many minutes planned, but I may have had a need to say something on this topic and agenda. The more this morning, the more we are in the disability problem, and this topic is very important from the point of view of prevention so that some forms of disability can not happen, disability. Whenever, from an international or national level, the other day, when it is declared or dedicated to some topic, the disease appears in society, then somehow it seems to be a mere form, that we will be making some statements in the media on the subject, that experts from their point of view will say something and that the next day we will forget what we said and said. Of course, this will not be enough and we must not do so with these expectations and with that predisposition or mark it that way. However, such a marking of the day, in this case Ambliopia Day will certainly have its goal. It will aim to raise awareness, needs and opportunities of those who have this disease, will aim at education of the population, education above all in this case of parents and all those who care for children and adults if they have indications of this disease. And what a colleague said earlier in the replica, certainly that is not enough, that we should also apply to legal obligations, to regulations, and to anything that will allow this disease to be recognized at the earliest stage, to be diagnosed and to access treatment. Treatment at the earliest stage is extremely significant because it occurs at the earliest childhood, and it appears at the earliest, as experts have already said and written mostly in one eye. The child moves freely and adjusts the other eye to the sight and does not notice any anomalies. It can also happen to a parent not to notice it. The most common thing to see then is a child’s incompetence that may also be associated with his or her difficulties or incompetences related to the earliest age. The real problems are seen at school during reading, and then the child has some psychological difficulties because of the difficulties in mastering the material, and of course we need to go back to solving the cause again because the examinations that are required to enroll in the primary school are already for the diagnosis or treatment of this disease mostly too short. So this day, the announcement of this day certainly plays the most important role, the role of raising awareness of the society that there is a disease and that this is early detection and treatment, in fact, the best prevention of what can happen to the development of the disease, which is a high lack of visibility or blindness. The World Health Organization said that vision is the fundamental right of every human being and therefore we need to pay attention to treatment or prevention of eye disease. 12.09. will also be a time when school starts, a time when teachers and teachers can already talk to children about this disease as is the case in all school programs and kindergartens. So what young people like are games, it's drawing on that subject, that's what the gentleman said simulating blindfolded eyes, moving blindfolded eyes. All together, this can point to the importance of vision and the need for vision. Blind people, if it happens clearly to blindness, they have really problems and we can and we have to do everything to make sure that blindness doesn't happen. No matter how advanced technologies are, however, people who are undersighted and who are blind have problems in adaptation, have problems in employment, have problems with schooling because they are harder to fit into the integrated process of schooling, and technologies that are available to them, which exist for their education, are expensive and not available to them, rehabilitation programmes are also not available and are not available to all. So it is certainly good to speak in this Croatian Assembly on all topics that I can contribute to developing into a society of equal opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11696	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11697	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's Mrs. Murganic, I'm going to use your debate one more time to point out the extent to which the national prevention programme of all diseases is important, and in this case, especially one information for all of us, but also for the public. If pre-existing visual checks had been made in pre-school children before today, there would not be 200 thousand undersighted persons in Croatia but only 20 thousand. So, if it is discovered in time, which is up to the age of 4, by the age of 7, the lack of visibility is treatable in 90% of the cases. So let this debate also once again encourage everyone to respond to all the preventive programmes organised by the Ministry of Health because this will mean a better quality of life, a longer life for all those who respond in time to preventive checks.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11698	Replication response, Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11699	Somehow my principle is that I need to respond to the replica because here I think it's not polite. Although I do not have a specific replica for you now, except that I will fully agree with what you have pointed out, reviews are mandatory, preventive checks, reviews of the earliest age. I'm old enough to be a little bit and nostalgic, so remember those old school, preschool dispensers, the doctor and nurses coming to school when our eyes looked at our classrooms, and as little boys and girls, we stood in line. At that time, we feared whether we would get glasses or not to get glasses. However, with the passing of these years, I really do see how significant this was and how significant those responses were to the mandatory vaccinations that we received as parents under the threat of violations and other sanctions if we do not take care of our own health, that is, the health of our youngest. So here's the confirmation and the answer to your replica is really a confirmation of what you said yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11700	Thank you. This is the end of the debate. I'm closing this debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And with this we end today's session and tomorrow we continue with the point Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Health Insurance, first and second reading, emergency procedure, bill no. 74. Thank you, at 9.30 tomorrow we will continue. Session adjourned at 15.25 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-15-0.u11701	The next is the Proposal for a Decision declaring the National Day of "Ambliopi". The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am giving adoption to the Decision declaring the National Day of the Ambliopi. Please vote who's in favour? 99 for, no one against, no one abstention. I note that a decision has been unanimously taken to declare the National Ambliopi Day. Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I suggest you take your seats and get started. At first I have one proposal, and this is to unite, to have a united debate on these two laws that are now our turn, and that is: - The final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.75. - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on compulsory health insurance, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 74 As it is a topic that actually overlaps well and actually solves an almost identical area, I suggest that we unite this debate. Do you agree with that? ... I see some disagree, some agree. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I see that some colleagues from the SDP disagree, then obviously we can't do that... Look, I don't think it makes any sense to force a part of the people if they don't want it all the time. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You want to be united? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Do you agree? Okay, well, I'm glad you guys agreed, so let's get it together. So we'll discuss both laws united. The proposer of both laws is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You took the materials into the boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You received their reports at the session. Does the proposal's representative want to further explain the proposal for both laws? Yeah. Dear Minister of Health Dario Nakic. Here you go. Just a little colleague of Nuckic's, I'm sorry, but here's a colleague of Petrina's who's been doing some damage to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
