ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am looking for a break on behalf of the European Commission's forecasts for growth in Croatia's GDP in 2016.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u102	Okay. How much do you need? Five minutes? [[Intruder Maras: 5 minutes.]] You're gonna solve everything in five minutes? Okay. It's got to be at least 10 per Rules of Procedure. [[Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, ……]] Then let's make arrangements for it to be at 9.45. Is anyone else picking up? Have I seen a colleague of Domagoj Milosevic? Yeah. So, him, anyone else? Dear representative Pusic. No one else. Okay, thank you very much. I'll see you at 9.45 then. Thank you very much. [[It's 9:00.35.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] Here's an esteemed colleague and fellow break timer, and I'd like to ask that on behalf of the SDP Club the word be taken by the esteemed representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Our colleagues and colleagues took this break because of an extremely important topic that happened yesterday and will be projected for the coming years of our country, and it is very important that both this Parliament and the Croatian government will work to continue these trends. As you read yesterday, the European Commission corrected Croatia's GDP growth rate to positive and has projected that this growth rate in 2016 will be 2.1%, and for this year it is 1.8% projection of the GDP growth rate. What makes this a reason and how the European Commission sees the situation developing around the Croatian economy. It has caused a lot of controversy in the Croatian Parliament as well as in public. What is important is to mention these growth rates and this projection that the European Commission has given positive reasons, i.e. the result of what the Croatian government has done over the past 4 years and many components affecting this primarily growth of personal consumption, which is growing 17 months in a row and which is the consequence of the tax discharge of Croatian citizens. On the other hand, investment growth is the consequence of both the work of the Croatian government and the law, the positive laws it has passed over the past few years, and as we see last year, compared to this year, this year, compared to last year, investment growth is 1.7% and the next year is projected 2.6%. Also, exports to growth are estimated to be slightly above 5% this year, over 5.3% in 2016. What we are particularly pleased to see is that the staff growth is finally growing and I would say that the unemployment rate is now growing, which is expected to be over 1% this year and next year is 1.3%. Public finances and deficits have also been corrected. The European Commission has been skeptical of how public finances will be consolidated in Croatia but has corrected its assessment so that this year's deficit will be around 4%, respectively, and will continuously decrease. And they expect us to be around those criteria in 2017, which is 3% of GDP. So all trends in the Republic of Croatia that have resulted from the work of the government of Zoran Milanovic over the past 4 years have been positive. We left Croatia in terms of the government in a much, much better state than we found it and there is no reason not to continue. But two things are problematic about our optimism that Tim Oreshkovic's government will continue its work. First, the amount of work, materials and initiatives by the government is embarrassingly small. In two weeks, we do not have a single proposal from the government of Tim Oreshkovic in the Croatian Parliament that would go towards changing the economic situation in Croatia. Yesterday we had two technical amendments to the laws that also prepared professional services within the past government. We don't have time to wait, we've lost 2.5 months of government formation and we're wasting our time every day. The initiatives, no material, council meetings, cadrevir, are thinking about what and how to fill out public enterprises but quality initiatives and materials are not available. One would wonder where the team is, where is the government, what with going on, to be a little more plastic in English because the prime minister will probably understand it much better, and perhaps not understand Tomislav Karamarko, who deals only with his anti-communist manifesto. We don't need it, we need the economy, we need the initiative, we need the work and we need the community, and the community doesn't show up in the Croatian Parliament. Today, when the position had the opportunity to support the inter-party agreement of the president of the Assembly Committee on Internal Policy, that is not indicated. What kind of community is that, what kind of patriotism, and what do you call it? You call for divisions, there is no return to old and quality initiatives. And that's not good and remember these words, you'll see what the results of your work will be. Our result is that we found Croatia in a minus, the GDP minus in the first year was -2% you have +2%. I expect when this government of yours leaves the position that this growth will be at least 6% if the trends are like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u105	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the HDZ club, the word will be taken by the distinguished representative Domagoj Ivan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u106	Thank you, Mr. President. So imagine Mr Maras just leaving this former government, your government has raised optimism, even in the European Commission in Brussels not only of Croatian entrepreneurs, but I am an act of leaving after months of negotiations all across the board estimate that the economy will grow more than expected after you left power. Well, let's get this straight... You'll have Mrs. Pusic if I'm not mistaken for 4.5 minutes talking, so now I'm begging you for silence. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So your famous modesty forgets that you took over the Croatian state at the end of 2011 after we technically left the recession as did the vast majority of European countries. So, I'm going to remind us all, because in this assembly, we have to keep coming back to this, and that's the whole of Europe, as a result of the financial crisis in the west of 2009, immersed in deep recession, some of them falling in EU rates more than 10% and 15%, Croatia 9% 2009. And so for a few years, I agree, it could have been better, by 2011 when we technically left the recession and finally finished negotiations to join the European Union. That's when your government came and I'm going to remind you here after 9 months of 2012, and somehow I have the impression that, especially in recent months, it's kind of being pushed as if the SDP's majority only managed in 2015, 2012, '13, '14, I guess someone else managed the team. These results aren't important, just in 2015 for the last six months, and we'll be there for those last six months. But, therefore, you announced in July 2012 economic growth of 2 to 3% of the following years, you achieved a decline. The cumulative score is almost 3% decline in 4 years of management. So we can't talk about the last six months, and that's why I'm really calling for a little more modesty when you come out here with data or with political convictions. It's on one side. On the other hand, I'm going to remind us all how we actually did last year, so thank God we did, out of the economic recession. Unfortunately, most of the government and the government's efforts despite what the government did wrong, I'm going to say a few sentences in those four years. Not only was she playing with taxes but she didn't do a single reform. In four years, no reform. When you read the European Commission's report over the past two years, it has been constantly showing what we have been saying here on the right in the Croatian Parliament. You weren't listening. But now you have the cheeks at the very beginning of the new government's work to say what you've just said. You really don't have any bases for that. As far as economic growth is concerned, it is well known that little is understood in the economy that unfortunately the large majority, namely the impact on economic growth, was primarily the fall in oil prices, the rise in tourism, would be discussed. Thank God we have tourism. I can finish one sentence so you don't break in, Mrs. Pusic. ... Yeah, nice. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So tourism, which is unfortunately not managed by us, is managed by external factors, so Arab Spring has been a lot of things that have positively affected the rapid growth of tourism revenues. So does economic growth. And finally again, I stress, entering the European Union. Entry into the European Union which changed the calculation, the way in which the exports were calculated. Thank God, let that happen, too, but that's not enough. What we haven't seen in four years, we haven't seen a single reform. Fiscalization can't be called any reform. It's not structural reform, it's just an exclusively effective way to collect taxes. The consequences of not seeing reforms in this House and proposals are almost 25% of GDP and public debt growth. We'll see if we get there eventually, I'm afraid we'll come with all the guarantees issued and close to 100 billion kuna debt. Someone will have to be in this assembly when everything is summed up and there will be more to answer for over the past few years what seemed and didn't seem to be. But slowly, he'll come after himself. We didn't see any investments. We are probably the first country to enter the European Union and not take advantage of the opportunity to enter, so foreign investors come, to create a more competitive business environment, to launch major strategic projects. We passed the Strategic Investments Act. What happened in four years? Nothing. For a year, co-ordination was not decided on so-called. strategic projects. What are the laws for if they don't apply? One single project for you is Zagreb Airport prepared in 2011. The whole contest. It took a year to sign the contract afterwards. Where are the other projects? They were gone. So I won't even mention the use of EU funds, support for the private sector, we haven't seen it. And in the end, just let me have one more sentence, which is if someone shared society over the past four years instead of dealing with economic issues and reforms and everything I mentioned, it was the former government. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u107	Here, thank you very much. Next, on behalf of the HNS club, Liberal Democrats, the word will be taken by distinguished representative Ivan Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u108	Thank you very much, President, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. It's an amazing sentence, I don't know if it's serious but we should understand that we are sitting in the Croatian Parliament, at a pay phone in the Croatian Parliament. And fellow Milosevic without any shame, fellow Milosevic, me and he often communicate, watch us, watch us, look at us in financial institutions. You think that the FIC or the European Commission has raised forecasts or ratings just because a government has come in and there is a Montenegro and Hasanbegovic and some information that I do not understand at all whether there will be a moratorium on investments or there will be no moratorium on investments, whether there will be energy projects or there will be no energy projects, when the FIC consternation hears. That's what the ratings are doing. That when the European Commission hears the Minister of Economy has arrived with which I speak very correctly because I want to help my country, see, that commission raises the assessment by 6%. Well, they're serious people. So how come you have the insolence to tell yourself, the coming of the government... Assessing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So read it. I know exactly what I said. [[Intruder: Comrade Vrdoljak I ask you to use terms that are appropriate.]] So to the European Commission... optimism because there's a new government coming. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Read the European semester, like this, the national reform programme, like this. I was afraid of him because we know that one part is hard to make, it's not hard to do. Everyone is waiting for these reforms, one part is made, the other part is not, it wasn't a political situation, there was no funds in the budget. As a different amount is calculated, so is the different public debt and guarantees and we know it. Because we talked to statistics. Where we look at this export calculation now, which is why export growth and the new public debt account where everything has gone into debt since 2000, it is not negligible, that is why our membership in the European Union has also increased public debt to that extent because all the guarantees you have issued while you were minister and your colleagues who have gone inside, it is my country and it doesn't matter, we are where we are and we have a good country and good growth. So people don't use this stage to say that the European Commission has jumped optimism and forecasts because a new government has arrived in which we talked for 7 days about a minister who has nothing to do with the economy. I'm waiting for you to come with the reforms, I'm really waiting for the materials to come and I'll support everything. Now there's a change of the Strategic Law, it's good nomotechnic just so you can. Name these projects, realize them. You will have the full support of the opposition in that, not in a destructive way. The European Commission's arrival raises the assessment to 7%. Well, people look at you in Brussels, so people look at you. They're gonna ask me what it is? So they're raising estimates based on... Indicators. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The industrial strategy has been adopted, in line with the European Commission, implementation is going, industry is growing for the first time in 25 years, exports are growing new account. Yeah, but it's growing even after this reckoning, it's growing since 2014 when there was a new reckoning between 14th and 15th, and there's a 2% increase in industry, and there's a 14th new reckoning. So it doesn't jump either export or industry based on a new reckoning at the age of 15, it may have jumped to the fourteenth part compared to the thirteenth. He's jumping and doing business. There he is, Boris. He came to the Parliament today. He should have made a decision to unload the tax, so wait for the effects, cut the revenues, wait for the effects on the growth of consumption, so we'll charge on VAT. Has the decision been made? Is spending growing? There's a rise in spending on the dumming business. What were we, like, eighty-six? Are we done with our 40th term? Are we done in 40? Look at my colleague Shuker's answer from the bench, watch the answer when I'm talking 80-sixth place of the World Bank's dumming business. We weren't estimating it. I expect the World Bank to move us to 12th place after this government arrives next month. No, we were killed from eighty-six to forty. You're up to eighty-six. You even hung up on me, I mean the one hundred and twenty-sixth you've been for a while to congratulate. The 1990s were almost in the country, we came to the 40th place in this term. When the World Bank sees that the new government has arrived, we'll be twelve next month. So get serious! It's a serious job! And the answer to that from colleagues of Shuker from the bench why was VAT lower at 12 months? Duing business is strategically solved by cutting parafiscal charges. We're part of why we came from 86 to 40. Keep cutting, bring reforms, we'll support them. Where are the reformers? Start with those reforms. You will have the support in your colleagues who have been given the privilege of being members of the Parliament and supporting everything that is good for your country, just come with it, not the demagogue to say what the government of the same second fit and the European Commission say well-being in the Croats. So you can sell it somewhere in some parts of Croatia, you can't do it to the European Commission and please don't bring us any more with such statements in such a situation I'd like to draw attention, one sentence. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] I'd like to draw attention, one sentence. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] The state is better than it was, an increase of 2% is your good basis for ending the term of office at 5%. [[President: It's been a very long time.]] If we've grown 3% grow you too.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u109	My colleague Vrdoljak, I'm too much for everyone to break a little time, but don't go too far with it. We would now move to the point of choice, appointment and resolution of the President of the Committee on Selection, Appoints and Administrative Affairs... Yes, can I help you? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Dear Representative Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u160	Mr. President, I'm asking you for a 15-minute break for the SDP club because for the first time, it has happened that one opposition appointment proposal has not been passed on to the Appointing Committee and we would like to express our position.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u161	Of course I do. I'm just asking the question of organizational nature does it take a break so your attitude or that as part of the discussion? A break? All right. Dear Representative Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u162	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HNS club, I'm also looking for a break on the same subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u163	Thank you. Dear representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u164	The Honorable President and the Labour Club are looking for a break on the same subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u165	Honorable representative of the Hrelja, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u166	Same reason I'm looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u167	We've got more. Honorable representative Ivan Shuker and that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u168	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u169	We'll formally determine as always a 10-minute break. So, I'm asking you nicely, I'll see you back here at 12.25. It's 12.15 o'clock. My colleagues and colleagues, I'm asking you to take our seats. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12, 25 HOURS]] And here we go with the first club to take a break and that's the SDP club. Honorable representative Igor Dragovan will state their position on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u171	Dear colleagues and colleagues, today's decision by the majority on the Selection Committee is indeed an unprecedented decision because so far in our democratic practice in Parliament, it has not happened that, in accordance with the agreement and division of the boards, most or minorities determine who will propose to whom in any committee and at any place reached by agreement between the position and the opposition. This is more since the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, which the Law on the Security and Intelligence System of the Republic of Croatia is clearly laid down in paragraph 4 that the work of the Board of the Croatian Parliament responsible for national security shall be chaired by a representative from the ranks of the most representative opposition party. Is this an abolition, is this decision of yours on the board today and not accepting the SDP's proposal to repeal the Law on the Security and Intelligence System of the Republic of Croatia? If so, you must say so publicly. We want to amend the Law on the Security Intelligence System of the Republic of Croatia, we want to abolish the possibility of overseeing the opposition under the law and take over an absolute and complete system without any control and control. If that's it, then you have to make that clear. Is this a decision in which you do not accept a SDP proposal that has absolutely the right to a small door to abolish the law, the provisions of the Law on the Security and Intelligence System of the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, in the context of media inscriptions and stories that we can see through the media, which is the replacement of the Director of Security Intelligence Agency, this seems to be a lame package. Replacement of the Director of the Security and Intelligence Agency without any justification and reason and non-acceptation of the proposal by the main opposition party for the chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. We have the right in the SDP to be seriously concerned and I believe that Croatian citizens are also aware of the announcements that in the negotiations that you had with your coalition partners in which the Security Intelligence Agency was part of the loot and the division of the chair because it was mentioned in who would propose the director of the agency, and if this happens this means that without the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the procedure and the resolution and possible appointment will be carried out by the board by us if there is no president and this is a clear analogy as the Assembly is not established unless the President of the Croatian Parliament has been elected. And secondly, we expect that there will be an opportunity here for me to vote, given that in addition to the Committee for the Selection of Appoints under Article 272. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and 15 MPs can make a proposal for committee presidents or for committee membership. We have referred this proposal and expect that we will be able to allow it, or that we will be able to vote on this proposal at the point when the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security arrives. And if that doesn't happen then we really think that it is a serious denial of the opposition's democratic right in the Croatian Parliament so far unrecorded, so far unseen. We've had different situations, but we've come out of all situations with a certain deal. Therefore, also because of Croatian citizens that it is Ranko Ostojic, a colleague who has almost left his life by relieving floods in Gunja, a man who has bled for months to show Croatia in Europe as a human country in a refugee crisis. That this is a man who knowingly, responsibly did his job in the position of interior minister in which Croatian citizens did not even feel a huge refugee crisis in the past year. That's a man you don't accept as president of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u172	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the HNS club, the word will be taken by the distinguished representative Milorad Batinić, and the pardoned deputy vice president of the house Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u173	Thank you, Mr. President, forgive me for this, my colleague Batinic has come forward as club president on our behalf. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are faced with a situation we have never had before. In fact, it is not just good customs or gentlemen's agreement or inter-party agreement as in all other situations. It's about the law. This position or role of the chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security is the only position defined by law. The law says that at the head of the committee is a representative or representative from the main opposition party. That's why I'm undermining this situation. It's different from everyone else. Anything else you can say is a violation of the gentleman's agreement, or agreement, a violation of an interparty agreement or customs as they were, but not here. Here is the refusal of this proposal to break the law. There is, of course, a rational reason why it is precisely this position, so the person who is headed by this committee is why it is defined by law. So defined by law because obviously the Croatian Parliament as legislator felt it necessary to have parliamentary oversight led by opposition, whoever the opposition was over the security and intelligence community. It is by the logic of work and the task of largely one work that is done in secret that is not in front of the public. Which is not unlike, say, what ministers do every day, pictured and exposed to criticism and public insight. Or what we do here in the Parliament. It's one job that, as I said by logic on the outside very often is not seen and what is done on the outside in such institutions, you can't see on a daily basis. And that is why it is particularly important that parliamentary oversight exists and that this parliamentary oversight is governed by someone who has an electoral legitimacy by the fact that he is the strongest opposition party and has the legitimacy of control by the fact that he is not from the same political team or from the same political side on which both the parliamentary majority and the government appoints key people in those services. And at the moment that the possibility of control is challenged, there's nothing left to stand between the potential ever present trend, anything that's been done in secret for the security intelligence community to seduce terror. It is in the theory of state and rights known and historical but the very logic of things says that something that is done in secret if there is no supervision and it is qualified legitimate surveillance, so the supervision that by logic things are from other political options than the one that places all the key people in the security intelligence community. Then that's why it's defined by law and only defined by law. Then the Parliament opens up an opportunity to take over this country, the citizens who are for all of us who voted here [[Thank you very much.]] seduce terror. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And therefore, and thank you, Mr. President, I'm sorry, final sentence. And so I ask you to think about your attitude and follow the law no matter the time. [[Intruder: Yes, but a little too long.]] Any time now, you need to stick to the law of your colleague and colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u174	I ask you, as vice president of the Parliament, that you know very well the rules don't violate the rules in such a way as to speak for a minute longer. I'm inclined to let people speak a little longer but six modus and rebus. I will now ask on behalf of the Croatian Labourists to take the esteemed representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u175	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. There's a question at this point why we don't want to follow the law. If we don't elect the board president, what does that mean, that we'll wait for the ruling majority to come to the Parliament with a new bill of law to amend it? By the time we wait, given this pace of how new laws come into the parliamentary procedure. The second question to be asked is what is the problem, if the law requires that the seat of the president of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security belongs to the main opposition party. Who has the right to decide on behalf of the main opposition party, who from their ranks can and whom they want to see in the lead. Is it now the right of HDZ, Labourist or anyone else to tell the biggest opposition party your candidate you're proposing is not good at? The third question that opens is why this is happening, does the ruling really want to have absolute control over the security intelligence services or is Ranko Ostojic whom the largest opposition party has proposed for the leading post, what? The enemy of the state? We don't like, I don't know, eye color, voice color, walk? What incriminates this man so much that the biggest opposition party is entitled to be their candidate? In the last few days, we have been talking about some strange and new practice in the House, something that has never happened before but we have not yet answered the question of who is to blame, who is introducing this new practice and who has started to introduce new rules of play, new rules of respect and new rules of compliance. At this point, the fact is that we can put everything else aside, we do not respect the laws of the Republic of Croatia. And then we'll talk about reforms, then we'll talk about progress, then we'll talk about the improvement that Croatia or any other country can live in the better, and it doesn't respect the laws that it has passed. Then why are we going home all of us from the opposition, let you pass no laws. We don't even need laws right now, we just need your goodwill and your wishes, whatever you want to control and how you want to control it. Obviously, we came to the moment when opposition in the Croatian Parliament is not really necessary. You work, you start doing what you think you should do, and how it works by disobeying the law isn't good. We put everything else aside, put aside even names. But the fundamental question is that you took the right not to respect decisions and decide on behalf of others what and how. Perhaps within the ruling coalition you have received one practice of difficult negotiation, but this is neither about negotiation nor about anything but respect for the law. And I am really taking this opportunity to ask all of us here for one thing – let us respect the laws of the Republic of Croatia. And if you were going to do what you did now, you should have at least tried and given the parliamentary procedure to amend the law that suits you and that amendment of the law thanks to the majority in the House and vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u176	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the HSU club, Stipe Petrina will speak to the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u177	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. We've been sending horrifying messages to our citizens for the past three weeks. We started bypassing the Rules of Procedure and yesterday when I turned my attention around, not to say a violation of the Rules of Procedure of my colleague Shuker attacked a secretary who did not happen all these years that I was in the Croatian Assembly not wanting to call the board. The Committee shall be convened by the working bodies presidents, i.e. the working bodies convened by the presidents. In the event of prevention or absence, the Vice-Presidents do so and so does our Rules of Procedure. After all, what counterpart Schuker said yesterday was that his colleagues, Mlakar and Mr. Domagoj Milosevic, who called for the constitutional meetings of their committees, who called in the manners of good presidents to meet their members and start working. So it wasn't enough to break or bypass the Rules of Procedure, and now we're going towards breaking the law. So today we will send a message that most in the Croatian Parliament are ready to break the law because of particular interests. Is that what we need? Is this a promising situation for Croatian society as a whole? But look, I'll be very brief and stop here or finish. I don't doubt it's in the interest of the Patriot coalition and that they will vote in any way they have agreed. I am interested in the fact that colleagues and colleagues from MOST with whom we have negotiated, who swore to seek transparency, purity, legality of business, that they would vote against this item of the agenda and on this proposal. I'm very interested in that. And I ask the public to take great care of it, because it will be a clear sign of whether they are in favour of what they have said in all these negotiations and this great outwitting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u178	Thank you. And now I give my word on behalf of the HDZ Club to the esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u179	My colleagues and colleagues, the worst thing about politics is that you have a short mind when you forget what you've been doing. I will begin with this debate, with a quote of the minutes of the session of the Croatian Parliament since 29.5.2015. The then president of the Committee on Selection, Appointation, quote: "The proposed decision on the resolution of the member and the selection of members of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament. I'm not going to read these names because of people. The President of the Croatian Parliament is opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on the motion for a decision. The vote is over. What's the score? The decision didn't get the necessary majority. So 14 for, 2 abstentions, 62 against." So much for credibility is told by a colleague on the left-hand side of the assembly. So this is the minutes of the Croatian Parliament that you adopted here. So this is about appointing an ordinary board member. So, just a little bit. I'm asking you nicely, I've listened to you politely. So when you don't have the arguments, then you throw. You'd like me to mention the appointment of a member of the Committee on Foreign Policy in addition to the agreement on the quota of opposition clubs. Remember, that's when I said that from a human position, I was very embarrassed to talk about it. You laughed out of all this together, but you called it past what belonged to HDZ. And not to mention how in 2001 you replaced the Vice-President of the Parliament from the Croatian ranks past HDZ's decision in some kind of political agreement. So, let me get this straight. First, it is not true that you have all repeated that this is the first time in the history of the Croatian Parliament because you have not once demonstrated it in the past four years, but I say this is the record and I have no intention of talking about it anymore. Another thing I will say here publicly because of the Croatian public is that the seat of the board president belongs to the opposition. So we don't slow it down or anything. But also allow us to have objections to your proposal. And the board president took it out. I can only specify a few examples. My colleagues and colleagues, put yourself in the position of our colleague Raskovic, as he felt when some information leaked out. That's what I'm saying, I'm mentioning to my colleague because he's here in the assembly, if he wasn't in the assembly, I wouldn't mention him. What about the swastika case? Politised to the unconscious, disgraced National Union, disgraced Croatian team. What are the results of that? Nothing! What about the use of police in political processes and persecutions and a series of other things? That's why... You did not accept a simple member's replacement in your fellow Members and colleagues on 29.05.2015. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] So much for your political credibility and so much for talking about this pay phone a few minutes ago. So you were telling the truth, you were telling the truth. We don't break the law because that we... I beg you, Mr. Chairman, to calm these nervous gentlemen on the left. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] So, if HDZ had chosen someone from the ruling coalition or anyone else, then the law would have been broken. So, the board president's position is still waiting for the opposition proposal. The fact that we as the ruling majority, in fact I speak on behalf of the HDZ Club, cannot accept the appointment of Mr. Ostojić, we said if we had to elaborate further. But I repeat, and with that I will end up, so it's not true that this is the first time that's happened, you've shown it on a far more drastic or banal example several times. It's not true that you're breaking the law because that you're breaking the law of a colleague you can now propose to someone else and he can be elected. ... Well, you can, but look, I'm not communicating with you, I'm just saying as a suggestion. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] I don't communicate with you. But I repeat, here you are all who have spoken one great lie claiming that it has never happened in Croatian history. This is the record for which you raise your hand and which clearly states how credible you are and how true you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u180	Thank you very much. Now that we have made these talks related to the interruption we would then move to the next regular item of the agenda, and this is - Annual Report of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency for 2014 The report is submitted by the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency on the basis of Article 21. Law on the Croatian Financial Services Control Agency. You've received the material into the boxes. Does the applicant want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Here you go, President of the Board of Directors, Mr. Peter-Pierre Matek.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u1992	Honorable President, distinguished MPs and MPs. You're aware that the detachment of HANFA's jurisdiction is pretty wide. It covers non-banking financial services, meaning investment and pension funds, insurance, lying, factoring, capital market in terms of and infrastructure and capital market intermediaries and the companies themselves which are issuers on the capital market. In the report, you can find very exhaustive details about each sector, so I will concentrate in this presentation on what was most marked in 2014 in HANFA. Of course, our basic business is supervision of financial services, but we should nevertheless say that 2014 marked a very intense change in the rules in the area of finance, which is the largest measure conditioned by significant EU requirements. The legislative framework for voluntary mandatory pension funds as well as the Factorisation Act, which was first laid down for the first time, has also been fully amended. HANFA has worked very intensively on making four new laws and four amendments and supplementing existing laws from its jurisdiction. She was still involved in making a number of other laws out of the jurisdiction of some other institutions. Under these regulations, we have adopted as many as 99 new regulations, 25 amendments and additions to existing regulations. I mentioned the EU. In 2014, it was also the first year to be marked as a whole by EU membership. This has led to major staff financial and operational challenges for HANFA as well as for most other institutions in Croatia, primarily due to membership in the European Securities Supervisory Authority and the capital market, etc. ESMA and the European Supervisory Authority for the Insurance of Professional Pension Insurance of People. These activities concern direct participation in the work of these bodies at both lower operational implementation levels and at strategic decision-making level in their Board of Supervisors. We expected a large number of notifications from foreign supervisory authorities in order to be registered in other countries to perform financial services in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. We received such notifications hundreds and hundreds primarily in the field of insurance and investment services. Although as I said, hundreds of foreign companies in Croatia have not yet been notified, it has not affected the strengthening of dynamics and some major shifts in the market. In time, it can be assumed that the share and role of these foreign institutions or companies in Croatia will be increasingly significant. As I said at the beginning of the basic HANFA's activity is to monitor our surveillance entities. Despite the great work on regulatory activities, we did not ignore that part either. Indirect supervision is carried out through the analysis of financial and supervisory reports that must be delivered to HANFA, and we have carried out 43 direct controls. Under direct supervision, surveillance shall be taken on the spot in the premises of the surveillance entities. A significant part of the regulatory requirements stems from the rules adopted at EU level and leave to the competent authorities of the Member States a certain discretion on how to implement certain rules. Therefore, in his work, HANFA communicates very intensively with surveillance entities and is directly familiar with their proposals and opinions. I mentioned 99 regulations and I must say that I am very proud that all these 99 regulations have passed a neat public debate and all the comments received during the public debate have been thoroughly analysed, many of them accepted. Now I'd move on to a part of the financial sector. So despite the continued unfavourable economic developments in 2014, there is a visible improvement in business results, an indicator of the business of certain segments in the financial sector that we monitor as well as individual control entities. A multi-year trend in the reduction of assets of investment funds has been halted, and the property of compulsory pension funds has continued to grow. The average contribution in 2014 of category B funds was 11.4%, and that year they started with the work and funds of category A and C. From August 2014 to the end of the year, they achieved an average of 4.6% of category A funds and 2.9% of category C funds. The membership in open and closed voluntary pension funds also increased in 2014 and the assets of these funds increased by more than 20%. Life insurance premiums increased 3.9% and a slight increase in profits was reported after taxation in the life insurance group of 5.4%. In the non-life insurance group, the decline was reported primarily in the mandatory car insurance section due to major competition, which is often mentioned in the media as a market liberalisation where the premium fell by a significant 18%. In the last few years and before 2014, Leasing companies, which have been significantly influenced by unfavourable economic movements, have stabilised and the value of newly concluded contracts in the leasing market is now around 5 billion kuna per year. I believe that we fully fulfilled our obligations in 2014. In doing so, HANFA employees who, in addition to their regular supervisory activities, faced an extremely large task of adapting to new regulations and membership in the EU. Since it is now 2016, here are just a few more words about 2015. In 2015, intensive legislative changes were continued, again most of them driven by the EU. As for the financial sectors we oversee, they were largely stable, both on the stock market and on insurance and leases and funds. In HANFA we continue to work intensively on improving work processes, digitising, discharging control entities and other users of the administration and what we are particularly proud of is that we have been granted as many as 3 European projects totalling 500 000 euros. I thank and stand at my disposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u1993	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. For the debate, first reported on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, Honorable Representative Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u1994	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency is an agency that is extremely important not only for the area related to investment funds, insurance and Leasing but is also extremely important for the part that is related to our pensions. I'm sure the funds we have in II. pension pillars are the assets that are the property of all of us who pay the 5% out of our salaries and therefore the work of HANFA in this area is extremely important. The Croatian financial market is a market that is still under development and we can say that it is not sufficiently developed as it should be. On the other hand, the assets found in II. The pension pillar is the means that should enable the financial market and investment in Croatia to develop and be even more beneficial to our society and to the development of the economy. Why II. Retirement column? When we look at the pension system, it has been based on intergenerational solidarity for years and started to develop at the end of the 19th century when life span was much shorter, when life expectancy was shorter, and in such conditions there was no need to ask questions about whether the increased tax burden on economic activity and whether the relationship between the number of pensioners and employees was too large? With the emergence of demographic transition, i.e. the ageing population in the 20th century Europe is faced with depopulation and Croatia is no different than all other countries in Europe. The average age of Croatian citizens is somewhere over 42 years old and all this has led to me being a pension system, the first pillar of intergenerational solidarity is very difficult to maintain in that form as set up. Therefore, the unfavorable ratio of pensioners and employees is something I can say that creates a high fiscal bite. A simple pension system, the first pension column cannot be maintained without a transfer from the state budget. We are therefore aware of the fact that over the past years we have a large share of pension and pension contributions expenditure in GDP, we have a large pension system deficit and, on the other hand, a low ratio of the average pension to the average salary despite high expenditures and deficits. In 2002, structural changes in the pension system began. As you know, only the pension reform has started, and that pension reform is long-term the only right to reform that we have made in the past 15 years. This reform, which introduced a three-stage pension system because it is simply not possible to maintain the level of pensions only on the first pillar of intergenerational solidarity. In fact, the first pillar is the one that ensures that those who work today provide funds for those who are retired so that one day those who work today will be retired, someone for them singles out the funds in the first pillar. However, this is simply not possible anymore, and despite the fact that we are likely to employ a much greater number of citizens in the future than we have in recent years, that we will reach up to 1 million and 900 thousand employees in Croatia. It will still not be enough to maintain the first pillar of intergenerational solidarity. Over the years, we have done some other things that have not been good and that have in some way compromised pension reform or pensions from the second pension pillar. One of the things that leads to imbalances is that pension reform has not continued since 2002, it has not continued to extract a larger percentage from our salaries in the second pension column. I note that, after the pension reform, about by 2010, 10% of our salaries had to be allocated and we stopped at 5%. And there's the HDZ that had two governments in that period simply instead of or to stop the reform and put it back into the first pension column, so there's no more second and third pension pillars or to start by increasing the isolation rate to the second pension column chose the worst option and it's not doing anything and so we ended up at 5% which in the long run is not enough to secure good pensions from the second pension column. The second thing that has happened is to include a pension allowance in the first pillar of intergenerational solidarity, which in the long term also leads to a major imbalance in pensions because those who receive pensions from the first and second pensions will not be included in pensions and there will be around 30% less pensions than it should be. Therefore, in the future, there will be great pressure on all governments to include that part that is related to the first pension column in order to include the pension supplement for those who receive a pension from the second pension column. There was a lot of talk about whether the contribution from the second pension stake was enough. For the time being, we have been called upon by Sirenski to nationalise the second pension pillar and to transfer the funds we have in the second pension column to the first pension column, which is a financial transaction that would improve our situation, so the debt of the state would be lower because there is more than 70 billion kuna in the second pension column, but it would lead to the fact that pensions of generations now entering the market and young generations being at risk and that they do not have adequate pensions when they leave after their working life in the earned pension. Therefore, looking at the future itself is absolutely certain that the pension system must be a pension system between the first and second, and the third pension pillar. They would refer to another thing that we did not detect well enough or well enough, but we did not make it well enough, and it is one of the roles of HANFA that is not only the regulator of the financial market but is also the promoter of literacy, in the first part of financial literacy and pension literacy. According to some surveys in the United States, only 31% of the population feel that there is no need to save additionally for retirement. In Croatia, such research has been controversial, and most people do not think it is necessary to save for retirement and for those days when it ends in the working age. Therefore, financial literacy and literacy is an extremely important thing and I think that HANFA must play a significant role because it is only right that we are already planning on our first day of employment what is going to be our pension. Because the pension in the future must be paid from the second and third pension pillars and the first pension pillar is a pillar that will allow social inequalities and especially those related to pensions for those who have no possibility and have not had the opportunity to make a decent pension for their working life to be balanced in a certain way. Therefore, the HDZ government is now set to continue the reform that has been launched, to continue the development of the pension system, a projection has been made that clearly shows that the pension system must be based on three retirement pillars. I need to hear these days that he is planning to end the savings incentives in the third pension column, I think it's the elimination of generations that are the future, so our pensions should be based on funds from the second and third pension pillars. The third pension pillar is not sufficiently developed and needs to be developed even more than it has ever been. Too few insurance companies are in the third pension column, and on the other hand, watching the first pension column, where over a million and 400 citizens of the Republic of Croatia have their own resources, I hope the government will not reach out to those funds and go into nationalisation of something that is our property. The second pension column is the property of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and that part should not be put on foot and try to solve the problems we have. It is absolutely certain that pension reform should continue and that experiments should not be done in the long term, especially in the pension system, do not result in results that are immediately seen. What you do today will be seen in 10 or 20 years, so you need to be extremely, extremely careful about what to do. In 2020, the first pensioners will receive pensions from I and II. Retirement pillar. Until then, it is necessary to resolve the issue of a pension allowance held by pensioners of the second pension pillar, until then to strengthen II. Retirement pillar, strengthen the literacy of those of us who are in II. The pension pillar because as you know, we've made it possible for the amendments to the law to be easier to invest, to invest in three subportphs. But when you ask all of us if you've thought about where your assets are going in II. The pillar will be directed by the majority and will remember in which pension society is a member, let alone about beginning to think about which portfolios to be paid into. Therefore, pension and financial literacy is something that is the task of all of us but also the primary task of HANFA. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u1995	Thank you. We have one replica, Your Honor, Mr. Milivove Spika.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u1996	A colleague presented a number of things that we had already discussed in the previous days, so for the past two weeks but also a few inaccuracies that we mostly agreed on and everyone here but also the public. So when we talk about the second pillar, then we can't talk about the means that are individual's personal or private property, but only that these funds are kept on the individual's account and that individual can't in any way be in a position to have unlimited resources. So what happens here often in the debate, which is that the mustache is talking about the second and third pension pillars. So we're chasing that savings with which a man can always have and what he can't, or we're missing out on saying that this part that's being invested, puts in the second pillar is just an administrative decision made at a political level where the first pillar from 20% has separated to 15+5 and that nothing practically else has changed in terms of availability, and that is precisely that 5% of the reason and the constant increase in public debt at an annual level of 5 billion kuna. HANFA's duty and business is not to control the efficiency of the availability of these funds but exclusively of legality. On that side, no mistakes can be found within the law that applies. What should be done before any reform of the pension system is to make one quality education of all interested especially those concerned by this second pension column that does not happen to us that in 20 or 30 years when almost everyone comes into a position that part of the pension is paid out of the second pension column it is less or worse position than it is now. And according to all the information, we also have calculations on the way these funds are available is much more likely that these future large pensions of honey and milk will be nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u1997	Replica response, distinguished representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u1998	Well, Reverend Spika, yesterday we heard your flat-rates and your flat-rate thinking. So let's base on the data. And the data are very clear, we were obliged to make a report to the European Commission on the adequateness of pensions and it was very clearly shown that pensions from the first and second pension pillars will be much larger than pensions from the first pension pillar alone. The mistake was in 2000 when we put in the second pension column all those who have an unfettered job experience, when we included our fellow citizens who were then 40 and over, and definitely they cannot benefit from the second pension stake because they are too short in the second pension column. The easiest thing to say is it's administrative, so it's an administrative measure. It's not an administrative measure, it's accounts that are based on our name, and it's the property that we have, we have at our disposal at the time when we retire because then we're going to go through a retirement insurance company and we've passed the law, and pension insurance companies control the HANFA decide how we're going to enjoy the pension if we're going to enjoy them for 10, 15 or 20 years. It's that financial literacy that I think here's the esteemed MP Spika doesn't know, so he'll probably need a certain seminar. So these are our assets, they belong to me. I will, when I retire, decide how I will use these funds to enjoy them for 10, 15, or 20 years, and based on that, a pension insurance company will determine how much I will have a pension that will be paid out of the second pension column. The third pension pillar, pension savings, is particularly important. So we have also made it possible with the new law to develop the market and I hope that the HANFA will have an even greater impact on this market.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u1999	Thank you. It is next to the HDZ club, the distinguished representative of Domagoj Ivan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2000	We're in a jam in front of the goal. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, first of all, we have a very correct and very comprehensive report on HANFA. HANFA performs one really at this time very, very important activity in Croatia. Therefore, it oversees those services that are vital to the Croatian economy, especially for Croatian entrepreneurs in recent years who are mostly over-indebted and inequitable. First of all, I mean middle and small entrepreneurs. The majority of the indicators in this HANFA report actually outlines in 2014 and the economic situation. Mostly these indicators, not all of them, but they generally determine stagnation or fall, although when you look at all other indicators still in some way these services supervised by HANFA are better than, they stand better than the rest of the Croatian economy. The entire system, i.e. services and companies dealing with these services controlled by HANFA, is significantly better organised and should be highlighted and more relatively competitive than most of the Croatian economy. So despite being relatively competitive and better and better-quality, they continue to stagnate. They are also active here now, activities and now I would draw attention to Mr. Matek, and that is on several sides I have received notice of that. So it is great that we are highly regulated, that HANFA is doing well and firmly, which times hardens its work as it is in the most developed members of the EU. But it is also important to draw attention to the fact that unfortunately we are not still among the most developed and wealthy members of the European Union, and then it should be taken into account, now I am not saying this in terms of implementing the rules, but in terms of what can be done with all those playing on this financial services market in the Republic of Croatia. As for the different, so services controlled by HANFA few just sentences. And only the insurance market mainly outlines the situation and the entry into the EU, a liening which in one part could or should have been replaced in view of the over-indebtedness and indemnity of Croatian banks to finance Croatian companies unfortunately records a reduction in assets and losses in business, which confirms what I said for a little while. Even the factoring of society, even though they do business with profits and they record smaller assets. As far as the capital market is concerned, I think the role of HANFA is very important. From the capital markets come commendation to work, to your work which I am very pleased with. And what unfortunately has no impact on either the HANFA or the Zagreb Stock Exchange, which is that, above all, the Croatian capital market is directly due to the unattractive business environment in Croatia, low profitability and what we did not do, and we did not take advantage of the moment of entry into the EU. My colleague Mrsic talked a lot about mostly pension funds. I don't want much, but I have a few sentences to say. At first, I think it would be a complete disaster if we went backwards and supported the pension funds. So that would really put us back in the past. I have to express my personal position here, and so far none of us seem to have, unfortunately, Croatian administration has convinced the government that it can manage and manage our money better than the private sector does. Can the private sector do better? It's okay. It's okay. It is also likely that pension funds can and need better, however, if we combine all our public debt results and everything else considered we always come up with the same result unfortunately, which is that the administration manages badly. And I'd like our money to stay in the second pension column. And as for the third pension stake, it depends primarily on whether people have, whether our citizens have money or have no money. So, if there's any further collapse that I'm sure won't. If that were to happen, of course, that people can't save. For the past four years, the decline in the standards of Croatian citizens is somewhere between 5% and 6% When it happens, when unfortunately people have less and less money, then it is logical that they can't even save, even though it would naturally be desirable and necessary in view of the future and given the ageing population and our really structural problems in relation to the number of persons employed and the number of pensioners. Two more sentences when we're talking about pension funds. That's where I'm asking Mr. Matek for his attention. It is nice for Croatian pension funds to invest in blue chip shares but Croatia is not Norway. Which will say that we do not have billions of euros available from oil and gas, unfortunately so that we can play on the global market. I think that, above all, our common interest, all of us and that capital market that I talked about before, is to invest in Croatian companies, those listed on the stock market, the one that should invest, which should be employed. And I don't think it can stand an argument, and I've had a few objections to the work of HANFA, which is that the same banks owned by the fund management company are at the same time exposed to these same companies in Croatia. Well, of course they are. The Croatian market is a small market, Croatia unfortunately does not have many companies, there are not many banks that can finance serious projects with serious money with relatively favourable interest. All this, of course, is the result of the many years of crisis. But knowing where we are today, where we could be and what we should do then we expect in this Croatian Parliament that all those who participate in these recovery processes of the Croatian economy and accelerated growth are involved in this process. Here, at the end of a few more sentences regarding the very functioning of this entire financial system, which is logical that the economic crisis has not only had an impact on them but indirectly and much more on the private sector. In that sense, I believe that the HANFA needs more, although I hear that you are doing a lot of work and work, and I congratulate you on that, but it may take even more effort and work in education itself, in improving and cooperating with the private sector as it is much more than it is for HANFA. It needs Croatia's state and every Croatian administration at all levels. The Croatian administration this is hopefully that in this assembly, regardless of the world-wide differences, we understand that in 2016 the only private sector in Croatia can provide a good future for Croatian citizens, everyone. And pensioners and workers and the public sector and the private sector. Without a stable advanced and advanced private sector, especially with an emphasis on medium and small entrepreneurs, the Croatian economy and Croatian society have no future. And I must stress that the Croatian economy and the economy are, above all, the consequences, especially, of social and political developments. Here, in the end HDZ will support your report. We invite you as well as all Croatian institutions and agencies to always be better and even more quality and congratulations on your work so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2001	We have one replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2002	Thank you very much. Well, a fellow Milosevic has been talking about the economy since early morning in the Parliament, and since HANFA is the regulator that controls the non-banking financial sector and practically monitors what happens on the stock market, I think that the capital market and what happens on the Zagreb Stock Exchange is the best indicator of economic activities in the Republic of Croatia. And it's just one of the segments that's seen when you're looking at the state of each country. I mean, if we take that, then we'll see that it's not as bright as the word is. However, given that the other day we had an opportunity to discuss the reports of compulsory pension funds, I think that the HANFA report should refer to certain investments that have a political calling rather than a sound of real investment in order to invest in the securities of individual companies in one market game and thus earn money. Because it's very interesting that most of these companies later came into a lot of financial trouble and the question is what will happen with the assets of Croatian citizens who have invested money in compulsory pension funds. So what is definitely that unfortunately the capital market in Croatia is not at a satisfactory level. And when we look at which companies are listed on the stock market, then we can't expect anything more significant to happen anytime soon. But there was also a very interesting privatisation of the largest insurance company without HANFA answering at all. In a model and a way that's a little weird.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2003	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2004	I agree with you fellow Shuker, therefore not only the capital market but also all these services that I have spoken about in some way outline especially in this year's 2014 situation and this poor state of the Croatian economy. But as we just had a chance to hear colleagues on the left don't understand the joke anymore and they don't understand the joke and the message so what I said, but in their place I wouldn't be ready for a joke after all the consequences of this four years of incapacitated conduct. 100,000 people have left Croatia, I'm afraid the figures are much more. In fact, the unemployed cannot be estimated, except for that statistics of dry and large seasonal imbalances, over 300 thousand blocked. All of this is in some way due to the management of the Croatian state and the Croatian economy. Like I said, there's just no other way. If I may say so here you know what can compare us to the handball. So it's kind of time to start sticking to the rules. Since our handball players were third, we'd probably be second, third in the world. Well, because people play by the rules don't try to play handball feet. But we keep trying to play and it's like not a big economy, not respecting the rules and playing in another way, playing with a little hand, a little head. Well, that's not working. So now that's the answer to those who are in favor of abolishing II. Retirement pillar. So give the people now that we're a full member of the EU we're going to start to understand what the rules are on the field. And when we start following those rules, then we can really start to compete seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2005	Thank you. Next, a respected representative, Ivan Lovrinovic, appeared for an individual debate. I figure he's gone, so he loses his right to argue. Gordan Maras is next reported for individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2006	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here is when we talk about the report of HANFA for 2014 and everything it oversees as a very important institution and that there are colleagues from HDZ rightly it controls a large part of the economy and what it does can show certain indicators in certain economic sectors. And on that side you can see positive shifts. It is very I would say unfairly and wrongly to take one small segment when we talk about trading on the stock market and take it as an exclusive criterion when we know that the stock market is like not yesterday, not since three years ago, but since 2007, 2008. What is important, on the other hand, is that other jobs are growing, that the insurance business is growing, that is particularly important for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and the Leasing business, and the other day we listened to here in the Croatian Parliament the report of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development which, for example, included that segment in its business. And all the things we've been doing and I'm going to say something about fund management companies, so here's the thing, we're going to have very soon in Croatia and the first Venture Capital Fund that will allow small and medium-sized entrepreneurs to have direct financing of 150 million kunas and start up ups that I could say a lot in the innovative sector to contribute to the Croatian economy. It's all controlled by HANFA together, and it all shows that we're going in the right direction and that's the way to proceed. And that is essentially the basis of what the European Commission and everyone else in our environment recognize today. Doing business better, investment environment better, availability of capital increasingly better and better and still insufficient, but increasingly better and better especially alternative sources of funding. I told me until about half a year ago I didn't even have the possibility of funding through the Venture Capital in Croatia. Now we have two companies or two funds, one that will work at regional level but Croatia will play this dominant role because it has the most small companies that are ready for such a form of funding. And the second one that will soon be launched is cooperation with the World Bank. So 40 million euros and 20 million euros. And on this side, it is no wonder that all these positive indicators I would say also give some confidence to both the European Commission and the investors that Croatia recognise as a country that will not, as it once was, be at the beginning of economic growth rates 2011, unfortunately because of the consequences of the government's failure in 2011 and so on. a technical exit from a crisis that was de facto not. So statistics and growth rates of 0.2, 0.1% of two quarters is not leaving the recession, it's not leaving the recession, it's statistics that don't change anything, it doesn't increase the number of employees, it doesn't increase, the only thing that can increase productivity can be even fewer employees if productivity increases and you have a rate of economic growth. So on the other hand, what we have in Croatia today are healthy foundations, these are the foundations of the new Croatian economic growth that should be supported and with which to continue. And as we have heard today every reform, every progress, every proposal that we get here today, we will support it because it is in the interest of our country and on the other hand, in the interest of the government that has now come into place to do a good job of all our citizens. Of course, we expect these 2% GDP growth, 2.1% of GDP growth projected in 2016 by the European Commission to contribute even more strongly to the growth of these services monitored by HANFA. We expect the government to go from 2% to 6% growth. If we went from -2 and came to 2, so that 4% difference we expect the government to end up at 6%. But it won't end if we deal with these things we did at the beginning of the term of office. So a lot of stories about ideology, demonstrations, I've already said some messages from the Deputy Prime Minister Karamarko and I find it really strange, I don't know where the Prime Minister and Vice President Petrov are? They're gone for days in the media, but every day we listen to Karamark and his messages about the anti-communist manifesto, about what to do, how to do, but there's no economy anywhere. And the only thing we've heard, and indeed she's a little funny, is that only the appearance of the new government has contributed to the improvement of the European Commission's projection. It is not possible and anyone who understands things a little bit and who is serious and who is not experiencing the citizens who listen to us here today in an easy way, who knows that people are thinking so I can't believe that Hasanbegovic is the reason for GDP growth to 2%. Who believes that I don't think it has much to do with reality and what it's supposed to be. So on that side, I call on my colleagues both in the government and in the ruling coalition to continue with the positive things that are now a handful. 17 months in a row growing personal consumption, 17 months. This is the result of the tax reform made by the former government. Exports are growing not one, but two years at first ten percent and there is some effect of what we have entered the EU but last year no, last year it is done by methodology as well as 2014. So then the ratio between 2015 and 2014 is excluded from the effect, and exports will rise again over 5%. So on that side we have a whole series of positive indicators, we have growth in industrial production, we have growth here I told the sector that controls HANFA and insurance and Leasing and all of these tools that need small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and that's what's important. And it is important that our people work, it is important that unemployment is reduced, it is important that employment is increased and that Croatia is going in a positive direction. I wish the government of Zoran Milanovic had such indicators at its beginning, where luck lies. Unfortunately we didn't have them, it was hard but we made it right, I'm not going to say a subjectively good job now, but a proper job and the results are good. And on this side, you have my luck that you have found such a situation and what you can do about reforms that unfortunately are not here in the Croatian Parliament. So we have nothing for two weeks, no voice, no sign of a prime minister with reforms that are supposed to work in the economy. That's disturbing. I hope it changes, that you'll give some content, that you won't be dealing with councils, staffing and what I don't know from public companies, so I guess to cleaning up for the next few months, rather than catching serious business. So on that side is something that this government has to do now, unfortunately, is not focused and the focus has to be the economy and the continuation of economic growth. Otherwise, when we talk about the optimism of foreign and institutions and media, read a little German and Austrian media what they think of Mr. Oreshkovic's government, which are attached in these articles to that government. It does not help the Croatian economy. Yes, because HANFA controls a large part of the Croatian economy and that is very important, Mr Milosevic. It is absolutely important not to dominate Mr Hasanbegovic's views but to dominate Mr Oreskovic's views, unfortunately we do not hear him. Who knows maybe he's dealing with some more backlogs he's got since he had to decide to be prime minister at 3:00. And on this side, I invite you to a constructive debate, on proposals that will improve the Croatian economy, not that will bring us back 20, 50 or 70 years, because of the fact that Croatian citizens do not live. And on that side, you'll have support for all the reforms you're proposing. Unfortunately, there is no reform so we will obviously have to propose laws from next week or we will have nothing to discuss in this Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2007	We have six replicas. The first to appear for the replica was the esteemed representative Zeljko Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2008	Your Honor. There's one saying that says this, socialism stops when there's no one else who's going to pay your debts anymore, that's what happened to the former South in '8. And it's not about ideology. It's about analysts. Any analysts in the opposition? We're... by all elements... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not ideology, except for one, it's hyperinflation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have nepotism, corruption at all levels, inefficient judiciary. Whoever's going to invest in this country looks like Guatemala, we have more television in color, Guatemala in the '80s. We have 1.2 pending court proceedings. We have judges whose work, every honor to individuals is not evaluated, all paid the same, no matter how many cases are solved. You have a detour of what's being said here and what's being written in foreign press and other analysts. Out of opposition was one minister recently in Austria and said this in front of the Austrian business chamber, he said, all in Croatia are corrupt except the government. What a message and what people think. In this kind of legal mess if there's no legal certainty, no one's seriously going to invest here. They'll only invest the Russian mafia and it's already happening here. According to this, if we want a legal state and this government that has now come, it will work on the root reforms of modernization of a state that looks more like Croatia, a state, a legal, modern and not a former state where every fourth man was artificially employed, where corruption and nepotism were daily. All post-Communist countries have the same problem and that's corruption. For example. In Romania, 70% of people come to work, not for their own professional equipment, but for a relationship. Mr. Oreshkovic will handle it he lived in a functional state and not in... in SFRY. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2009	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2010	Thank you very much. Look, I have very little experience with SFRY because I was very small. So this whole thing you're carrying probably from your own experience, you're saying what happened back then. I don't know that, but I know what kind of country I want to live in. And I know what you're saying is unfortunately in some parts and true, but when you see the difference today and five or four years ago, the difference is visible in all segments. From the judiciary, from the business climate. So we heard here in Parliament today that we started from 80th place, came to the 40th place of the world's doing busies scales. Well, that's some result, that's measurable, that's Benchmark. So we made huge progress on that side. I'm not happy with where we are today because I want us to be top 20. But that's your job now. Don't call on Yugoslavia and SFRY and socialism because we don't care, I don't care. The historian, Hasanbegovic, is probably interested, but I don't care. I want to know how our people will live as best as possible. As for investment, corruption. Look, it wasn't my wife who arranged business contacts in Finland, Russia, etc., but a HDZ leader, and then you see what it says about corruption in Croatia. So people we deal with business conditions, we do attract investments, we have to work to make Croatia look better and not to work on whether and how it was in SFRY. That's not our problem. Otherwise, as you come from Bosnia and Herzegovina, you see the difference...... Okay, but you've been chosen there. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Oh, no? ... Okay. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Okay, but most voters were in BiH [[Stain Sanader: Please don't intercede.]] So I'm just saying that you have these experiences, you have these experiences. [[Stain Sanader: Time's up, Mr. Maras.]] Look, Mr. Vice President, a little bit Mr. Glasovic took away from me after all. Just give me one sentence and it'll be all right. [[Stain Sanader: You will have an answer to another replica.]] So let's not deal with Mr. Glasnovic SFRY, socialism. [[Invader Sanader: Here's a sentence.]] We deal with Europe and the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2011	Next replica, the esteemed Ivan Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2012	Mr. Vice President, it is very difficult, but it is much easier for us here than for all Croatian citizens to listen to this presentation by Mr. Maras, especially those who have lost their jobs, who are poorer today than they were four years ago, who had to move away with their belly after bread, who have been completed, who have been blocked for years. What have you done? Nothing. So what did you not do when you did pre-fashion law in such a similar way and Croatian citizens. Why didn't you allow them in the legal solutions to somehow get out of debt slavery when you're so worried here, when you're giving out all the wrong information. Why don't you answer to the Croatian citizens here what public debt is after four years? Absolute historical record in European terms in just four years. Who's gonna pay off that debt? You? You hard, you hard. Someone else will pay off the debts you made. You know, there's this one story about Mrs. Margaret Thatcher, you know what's the only problem with socialism? Sooner or later, someone else's money runs out. Well, that's the one you used to take on. A hundred billion kuna will eventually be the end of your government. As a result, we'll feel less than 10, 20 years. How are we gonna handle this? What are we going to sell national silver and gold? You won't talk about it. The reforms you're talking about, you're calling for a new government after 10 days of reform. So why don't you tell me one of the reforms you've been through in four years? One? And after that, economic analysts say, this was a serious reform. And as for these plates of yours, we grew on one, and we fell on the other. Look, there are few other tables, not just those that match the former government. So let's just start after four years of a little modesty, courtesy, support for the new government, let some ministers go if you honestly care for Croatia to move forward. You've had four years, now you could keep your mouth shut for at least a month.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2013	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2014	Look, fellow Milosevic, I've been elected by Croatian citizens here to speak and represent their views and you won't tell me to keep my mouth shut. And I won't keep my mouth shut about what good Croatian citizens know about what the HDZ government left us in 2011. And there'd be wherever and where to find happiness, Mr. Milinovic, if you'd made reforms in health care like the former government did, if you'd made social reform, if you'd made reforms in the tax system. So what do you think personal consumption is growing on its own? There's Mr. Lalovec behind me, a man who's made a reform of the tax system that allowed 17 months in a row to grow personal consumption. So what's not reform? So I can say 50 more of those things and I'll say it. And you know why I expect the new government to start working after 10 days? Because we don't have a day to wait. We lost, not thanks to us, but we don't have time to break the positive trend that has begun. You'll take us back. That's not good. And on that side, you have no right to apologize for a hundred days, not in 10 days, not in one day. Well, that's what your prime minister said after all. Did he say you had no right for 100 days? And I will speak to you from day one and warn you of that. On that side where and where it's easier for you than it was for us. 100 billion you're talking about? It's less than 100 billion, and look at the results left behind. Half of those alleged 100 billion are the interest that you left us. You spent eight years not 100 billion, you spent 150 billion, and you left a robbed and devastated state. And that's what you need to be told, and that's what you'll be told every day. We won't keep our mouths shut because Croatian citizens didn't choose us to keep our mouths shut here. You might want to, but you won't be so lucky. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2015	We've reported three injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Ivan Šipić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2016	Thank you, Mr. President. It's the first time I've called. Since we've been listening these days what kind of debates [[Stain Sanader: Which article do you have]] 239. [[/Adversity Sanader: Which article do you have a breach of your Rules of Procedure?]] And you write what it says, I beg you gentlemen. Wait a minute, I'm sorry. Excuse me, just a minute. So, as far as I know, and don't interrupt me because I've been listening to you and listening to wherever I come down here, I'm listening to all sorts of nonsense like the Croatian people. According to please, I know exactly what the subject of the agenda is, and it is not the subject of the agenda of your old ministers to deal with this new and us who are here for the first time. I'm asking you, Mr. Former Minister, to stick to the agenda. Now the theme of the HANFA agenda is, as far as I know, the HANFA theme.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2017	You didn't quote here in 239. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure reported by Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2018	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. It has been broken, so Rules of Procedure Article 232. The speaker can only talk about the subject under the established agenda. Unfortunately, here I am as the newly elected, for the first time in this assembly I have listened to the former ministers through both the media and their results. Maybe that's what the ministry paid for. But here, indeed, those of you who are holding the presidency make sure that we stick to the Rules of Procedure because there's no point in us sitting here and discussing something that doesn't really have anything to do with the subject. So this is what I'm telling you because you are the sole responsibility that you chair, that you allow someone to talk about alien subjects. It's a good thing he didn't go to Mars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2019	Here's another report of an injury, distinguished representative Milinović Darko.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2020	Mr. Maras injured Rule 235, so he should have responded to Mr. Milosevic. He said something about health care, I will not, with all due respect to the former minister, say anything about health but Mr. Maras, who was the minister of small and medium enterprises and crafts, speak best to entrepreneurs and craftsmen who seem to have shown me their opinion of you as the most incompetent minister who brought them into an incompetent situation and did not respond to Mr. Milosevic... Let me... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Don't get nervous. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] At least I don't wave my finger like you, let me, no anxiety.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2021	That wouldn't be in the context, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2022	And you did not answer Mr Milosevic when he told you about the 100,000 people who went out of Croatia because of your policy, about 300 thousand blocked, about 300 thousand unemployed and everything Mr Milosevic talked about.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2023	Okay, that's not part of this violation of the Rules of Procedure you reported. Honourable representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, injured the Rules of Procedure, are you? Which dot?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2024	Yes, Mr. President. The Rules of Procedure were injured precisely by those who felt that the Rules of Procedure had been injured and were thus misused. In particular, the provisions of Rule 238, in conjunction with Rule 236, shall, in particular, be invoked by a representative who wishes to speak about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, in this particular respect to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which have been violated. Article 236 is only a basic provision which speaks of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure or the right to highlight the breach of the Rules of Procedure and then, later, these following provisions which would be injured. However, just as he spoke to counterpart Maras Mr. Glasovic raised his line and spoke about a topic that was not at all the subject of the debate, and that is why his colleague Maras was obliged to answer. A colleague, Glasovic, spoke about Yugoslavia, about socialism. So here we have colleagues who can't possibly get Yugoslavia out of their heads. That's one thing. Then, while his colleague Maras was speaking, colleagues from the HDZ were interfering with their incursions by counterpart Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2025	Yeah, well, you're explaining who's talking now. Time's up, thanks. Mr. Honorable Representative Pecnik also has a reported violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2026	I will refer to the article in 1999, he says, it is directed to colleagues from HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2027	I'm sorry, Mr. Pecnik doesn't have that article. ... Yeah, we'll give you a warning. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Next replica, Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2028	If you could just take it easy, 'cause this doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2029	Mr. Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2030	I can allow Mr. Shucker and Mr. Maras to come out here in front of us and speak because this is no use for you to lead, to chair. So there are business provisions that I can give a warning, I mean, this doesn't make any sense. I'm sorry. Dear colleague Maras, you spoke more about everything than the subject, and I'm sorry here that the gentleman who exposed was talking about issues of the topic, and he didn't hear anything that should change or should change, but you certainly know a lot because you were the Minister so far. However, insist all the time and ask the entire question where is Vice President Petrov, where are these? Of course it works, in its place it works and analyzes the situation you left behind, what the debts are and what they need to do for reforms. So everything that needs to be done for the reforms, of course, is a very important analysis. Because for an analysis of a real one, and not what you've shown, it'll take some time, but as short as possible. I wish you'd talked about it, about the subject, and less where the vice president is now. Because I'm sure you'd like to know, and perhaps the public, as much as your ministry paid for TV ads and stayed to advertise. I'm interested in this information, you must know it from your ministry. It's not all about getting out in public, populism and some kind of demagogy. It is very important what is done, the man is in his place of work and soon you will have everything that is "Croatian Growth" signed and I hope that you will accept these reforms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2031	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2032	Mr. Bulj, I was talking about the subject, because all these things that are covered by this report are touching the economic sector, touching certain services that HANFA is overseeing and that is very, very connected to each other. On the other hand, if you're interested, I can tell you, I don't know the exact information, but I can tell you how many projects have been reported based on it and how much money. You don't care about that? You are not interested in how many projects and what is the value of these projects and investments that, based on this project, EU funds are invested, or will be invested this year? Well, that's your data, and that's why you're growing investments in Croatia. Because small and medium-sized entrepreneurs invest. Based on this campaign, which has been made to exploit over a billion and 100 million kunas, more than 100 projects worth nearly a billion kuna have been received at this time. So what's not great? What's not a valid thing? Tell me, do you think that's a good thing, that tomorrow it's going to have a billion kuna investment or maybe two when all these funds are used and what's going to be employed by 1,000, 2000 new citizens? So what are we talking about? Who promotes, who represents, who initiates these projects? Well, Government, Minister! What's the matter with that? I don't see any problem here if the result is made. And the result, Mr. Bull, is exactly what I told you. Hundreds and hundreds of projects, investment growth, GDP growth and employment growth. And what I am particularly proud of you will see that, within the framework of the ministry that I led, it will be the best use of EU funds. I guarantee you that no matter who came and a colleague who came as minister after me. And as for Mr. Petrov's remarks, I didn't object to it, I'd rather see him much more than I'm looking at Karamark.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2033	Thank you. The next replica, the distinguished representative Petar Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2034	... Dear Mr Maras, I congratulate you on all your achievements, everything you do, at great performances, at a great campaign for the upcoming internal elections, but the agenda of today's session of the Croatian Parliament is the annual report of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency for 2014. [[Last-on speaker]] So we're discussing something else entirely. You've shown what you know, what you've done in the past four years, and you're convinced that you've done great, wonderful, wonderful, that everything is wonderful. I congratulate you, the citizens have shown what they think of your work and your results. Croatia should move forward, we should not think and return to this period that has passed behind us, but we need to discuss your reports here. I expect here from your representatives to defend their reports, defend their work through these reports, and not look back during these 10 days of the new Croatian government to respect staffing and everything else. So what would you like? To remain your staff and keep your incompetent human crusader running and running this country? We can imagine which way you'd take her. Therefore, here we are discussing reports during your reign, do not abuse those reports to transfer the ball to the future. When the report on the work of the Croatian government will be a topic and there will be space. So here you abuse the space of debate on reports during your reign to open entirely other topics. And when you lack arguments, then you go back to 45, 90, then you go back to the past, you use all sorts of flossules, and you take away valuable time to get this government to function normally and to consolidate and act and correct everything you've gone backwards over the past four years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2035	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2036	Mr. Skorić, I'm first proud of what I did in the former government and I'm proud of all my colleagues and the results we've made. This is the place to discuss, this is the only place and the most relevant place where Croatian citizens through national representatives who I am express their views, pleasure or dissatisfaction with what is done in the Croatian state. And don't even try to stop it because you can't do it. Croatian citizens expect me to warn Hasanbegovic, in Montenegro, of the inability to go into the state-leading process at all. Well, they'd be disappointed with me if I didn't say so. So did you see the other day here people who gathered and demonstrated against Hasanbegovic? So what would these people tell me if I told you Hasanbegovic was okay? That his views on the handiwork division are okay?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2037	But this is not a debate about Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2038	So we're discussing, you mentioned, I'm not going back in time, I'm talking all the time about the results that are now and I'm challenging the new government to move on as soon as possible. Unfortunately, there isn't. And why shouldn't I also Croatian citizens be dissatisfied that you two months can't move, which you can't agree on about the ministerial assistant, three for one, two for one, the council of this, the council of what, is Schuker in charge, is Brkic in charge? So who cares? Start doing that is what I'm telling you, that's what Croatian citizens tell you. And don't even try to stop me because I'll talk about it all the time. And from the first moment I tell you it seems to me and don't take this personally or subjectively, it seems to me that this is the weakest and most incompetent attempt to form the Croatian government since the beginning of 90th. So this is the worst start ever and most likely the most incompetent start ever. And it probably won't end well on that side.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2039	Time. We have three reports of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Blaženko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2040	I would like to appeal to the President-in-Office for Article 232. Rules of Procedure. I will also quote it here once again for the sake of the public and for your sake, "If the speaker gets away from the topic of the agenda, the president will warn him to stick to the agenda theme." I implore you to the Honorable President that you have already warned the MP Maras once because through exposure and through replication and answers he has gone so many times from the topic so far that in seven times he has repeated the new Minister of Hasanbegovic, who, by the way, is the Minister of Culture and thank God and the topic is HANFA. Furthermore, the third paragraph of that article says, "If the speaker does not stick to the agenda subject after the second call, the president will take away his word and, in that case, the representative can no longer talk about this issue." I ask the Honorable President to follow Rule 232 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2041	Thank you. Here's your distinguished representative, Hrebak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2042	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, I refer to Article 238. Already mentioned several times during this debate. Mr. Maras is not sticking to the subject of the agenda, and I'm asking you to give him a sanction. Mr. Maras and we are also elected MPs and we want to discuss agenda topics. About Mr. Montenegro, about Mr. Hasanbegovic, of course you can talk about when it will be time and when we will stick to the agenda. I ask that democratic standards be respected in this high house.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2043	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2044	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree with you that you have been elected to the Croatian Parliament to speak, so that you even speak nonsense, but you are not chosen to violate the Rules of Procedure and violate the law because the Rules of Procedure for us are parliamentary legislators. But that's not why I volunteered for the replica, but to remind you when you talk about entrepreneurship and when you invite us MPs to be constructive in entrepreneurship discussions. You, or your ministry, were in April last year, colleague Maras, if you can listen to me, your ministry opened a tender in April last year, or a public invitation to use the European Regional Development Fund with a total amount of 150m euros. In this procedure, you made one rule that you gave in public debate. There are many counties for you, and so is Dubrovnik-Neretvanska that this rule will not win the result because it will prevent many micro-entrepreneurs from reporting in the Republic of Croatia... %. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The epilogue of your public call is such that, to date from this fund, the basis of this competition has only been applied, i.e. that the funds for only two projects have been provided, two entrepreneurs. Therefore, if you already want to talk about entrepreneurship here without talking about fascism or anti-fascism, I would say that your approach to this kind of project that should have allowed the development of a number of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia, and even a micro-enterprise should be completely different, should be adapted, and to this we have said, right from Dubrovnik-Neretva County, in writing, that this rule will not result in the end and that here is a truly epilogue, and that is to say that it is an opportunity to apply and to ensure 150m euros to date only 2 projects are realised and it best speaks of how you came in, encouraging entrepreneurship in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2045	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2046	Thank you very much, Mr. Bacic. Unfortunately, he's not talking about it. He's saying that you don't know the procedure and that you don't know how things work. That's not weird because you didn't deal with it. So in the situation where you call a tender until the contract, this data you said, so it's been six months, ask anyone who ever did a European Union competition whether it's a good result or not, it's a great result. So the first signatures of the contract started 6 months after the announcement when people have a debate about the rulebook, when they have 2, 3 months to prepare projects and when they have 2, 3 months to evaluate these projects. So it's a six-month top score, and I congratulate the administration that worked at my ministry. At this point you have said it just before Mr. Bull, you have over a hundred received projects and probably are not just two more approved but are already close to a dozen. So that job goes perfectly, that job will use that 150 million euros in, by my assessment this year. So I'm glad you brought it up because that's exactly what it says about the quality of the job not that I did because I'm not responsible for it, that's what the people who work there are responsible for. And I congratulate them on that. And as far as the subject is concerned, I say the topic that I've covered here is also related to HANFA because all those services that HANFA oversees are also tied to these topics that I was later talking about. As for Hasanbegovic, I am sorry that Hasanbegovic is making you so sick. But it's not just you. The Croatian public, that's the problem. [[Intruder: No, there was no mention of Hasanbegovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2047	With this replica and answer, we conclude today's debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And I declare a break of up to 12 hours when we vote on the debated topics at the previous session. ANNIGHT IN 11.25 HOURS
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2048	And last item of the Annual Report of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency for 2014. The report is submitted by the Croatian Financial Services Control Agency. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. The Annual Report of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency for 2014 is hereby adopted. Please vote. The vote is over. 99 votes for, 16 abstentions, one against. I find that most votes have reached the proposed conclusion. We would end tonight's session, i.e. the continuation will be on Wednesday 10th, usually at 9.30 p.m. and we will begin with the point of the Annual Report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2014. Please, now we've chosen all bodies with one exception, but that body can work, too. He can, because he has a vice president and he can work in accordance with the law, so please. [[Intruder: Can't!]] I ask you nicely next Tuesday to meet the working bodies and discuss the points on the agenda so that we may have the opinion of the working bodies, that it does not happen as it happened this week that we do not have the opinion of a working body and we cannot then adequately discuss it. So I'm asking you nicely on Tuesday to call the working bodies. Thank you very much and have a nice weekend! The session was interrupted at 16.55 p.m. Next proposal, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2274	Proposal for a decision on the selection of a member of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament, in accordance with the provisions of Article 46(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the SDP, HNS, HSU, Labourist, National Minorities, IDS, have proposed, by letter of January 2016, that the representative of the SDP be elected as chairman of that Committee, and that a member of the SDP be represented by Predrag Matic as a member of the SDP. The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament at the second session held on 5 February 2016 discussed these proposals and with 7 votes against and 4 votes in favour of not supporting the proposal to elect representative Ranko Ostojić for the chairman of that committee and unanimously set out the proposal to elect Predrag Matic as a member.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2275	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. ... /Speakers speak at the same time./... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2276	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues have never been bored, Col. Schucker, never before in the parliamentary practice of this House has the president of the Committee on Internal Policy been voted by consensus. There were many reasons to oppose it when we were parliamentary majority. In the previous meeting of the Parliament, the chairman of the committee was a colleague of Miroslav Tudjman. Col. Miroslav Tudjman led the intelligence community at a time when she without any control violated human and civil rights. There were many reasons not to agree with his choice but we chose him because it was the attitude of the parliamentary majority and the parliamentary minority. When the parliamentary majority does not accept the parliamentary minority's request, it violates the minority's rights because the minority cannot because it has less time to vote its proposal. Therefore, this relationship is not only a failure to accept democratic standards, as the law has already been said. The law clearly states that the work of the National Security Committee is chaired by a representative from the ranks of the most representative opposition party. And who's supposed to propose it? You, the most represented opposition party, will determine who will be president, who will be her representative? If you think you don't know the alphabet of democracy or you know what I'm more inclined to believe, but you want to deliberately violate it, you want to end democracy in this House and in this country. What will result from your behavior? It will come to pass that the chairman of the board, of this committee, will not be elected. Which means the board won't be established. Which means that without any control, the intelligence device will work. And that's what you actually want. You are announcing the shift of the heads of these services, you are abolishing the only body in this House that is overseeing the intelligence community and thus allowing what counterparts Pusic terror and intelligence community have said. That's your goal, that's your intention, and that's what the citizens of this country need to know. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day President-in-Office of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, you have received a proposal from the opposition representative, since the committee did not accept the candidate proposed by the opposition, we have taken advantage of the alternative business opportunity to be proposed by the MPs themselves. I expect you to put that proposal here for a vote today. When what is now happening in the Parliament, when you refuse to accept the opposition proposal, you actually refuse to form a Committee on Internal Policy and National Security because it is the consequence of your act. When it is promoted in a slightly wider context with your unprecedented attack on media freedom, with the announcement of the abolition of non-profit media today on the board, with the illegal abolition of the Commission for the financing of non-profit media. When this is added to the death threats to prominent outgoing cultural workers, who remain without any echo from the ranks of the ruling policy, without any echoes, without any conviction, without a single word from the prime minister, the culture minister, the President of the Parliament, anyone then is all together watching the beginning of the Fascision of this country, the beginning of terror. That terror will be answered. We'll know how to protect the citizens who are threatened with death, we'll know how to protect the media free, we'll know how to protect our minority rights, our own and all the other minorities in this country. The quiet, all those you have come upon with your terror.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2277	I would suggest to everyone regardless of the heat and regardless of emotions to stay away from the heavy words, words that imply certain things that do not belong to the Croatian Parliament. So the replicas were reported by Honorable Representative Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2278	Thank you, Mr. President. I will personally understand your animosity and intolerance to me, and I would be surprised if it wasn't so simple because you have a lack of argument and an excess of ideologies over the facts. As far as you're concerned, the intelligence system that was real in the '90s violated human rights should back it up with some facts that would apply to me personally when you addressed that responsibility to me personally. And since that is not the case, it is a clear misinformation so as not to use any other words that are simply not the place in the Croatian Parliament. And what you're doing today is declaring this government fascistism or prostration or whatever terms you've already used these days brings us back simply to the '90s when the then government was also characterized by South-Communist and Communist actors who were then working on large-scale Serbian politics. Therefore, one rational relationship rather than pouring oil on fire, what you do and want to destabilise Croatia is simply not rational and is not appropriate. As far as I'm concerned, for every reasoned debate, I'm at your disposal, but for these ideological disqualifications, it simply belongs to some other times that I hope are behind us for at least most of the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2279	The honourable representative Nenad Stazic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2280	Professor Tudjman, I am not destabilising Croatia, but you are destabilising Croatia by your actions, you must understand. And did the intelligence community violate human rights? Well, look, it's a notorious thing. Not only did the press follow, they followed the entire newsroom. They followed the entire newsroom. There was no control, unfortunately. And it's not my fault. And it happened at a time when you were one of the people who ran that community. However, in the last term, we have elected you president of this committee, despite this. And we'd do it again, because that board is too important and you have to understand that. And instead of being such a big Democrats to influence your colleagues at the club to withdraw such an unreasonable decision as they're about to make, you're here to replicate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2281	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2282	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, we're really witnessing one side of a painful debate, but we're going to answer everything they've answered, because the fact is that the SDP today is suffering from an identity problem. Politics for us or for them has entered their party and you can see what this comes up with in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. We've got a fight between poodles and pekinezers. Pekinezers are if you do not know very much about their owners or masters, so in this conflict obviously the Croatian public must also suffer on completely banal issues. And speaking of Mr. Stazic, he was as vice president of the Parliament when we had one debate on human rights found that you all knew and justified the existence of the Golog Island. He then, as vice president of the parliament, said in this assembly that there was no Glog of the island of Yugoslavia would have been Goli Otok. It was the way he experienced everything that was happening in that camp to the show of modern times. It simply went through the Croatian public that no one asked him about it, or accused him of it. That's why I'm saying it again today. I don't have a fascism problem. Every day I walk around Zagreb, people work perfectly normally, work. The problem is, some have found space for their own existence here. Every antifascist started looking for a fascist to have a reason to exist. It is a shameful policy that you can continue with, but you won't get far because Croatian citizens simply won't hunt for it. And to know what you've been, what you've become, sir. I'll run a good show every day. Look at the TV calendar to see how the system worked and how human rights were respected in the time from which you draw your own essence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2283	The honourable representative Nenad Stazic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2284	You say you don't have any Fascism problems, I trust you. You don't, but you have a problem with a political culture. The beginning of your speech testifies to that. Never, never has the political culture in this House been as low as the coming of this power.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2285	We now move on to individual debates on behalf of and is the first of those respected MPs, Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2286	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. This debate is not a debate on agreements, negotiations on a good democratic practice or when it was violated over the years here in the Croatian Parliament. This is about strict application of laws that the rulings must respect, as is the duty of the law to respect each citizen. Namely, the Law on the Security and Intelligence System of the Republic of Croatia states in its Article 105(4): "The work of the Committee of the Croatian Parliament responsible for national security shall be chaired by a representative from the ranks of the most representative opposition party." Therefore, this is not about agreements, negotiations, something that is good practice by ruling us. That's right, so that comes directly from the law. Even those provisions are not in the Rules of Procedure, because that provision does not deplete. But you, we've all sworn to uphold the Constitution and the law. I don't believe my colleagues that it's been so long that you can, as in court, call on Alzheimer's that you forgot. So we must stick to both the Constitution and the law. However, what you show with this decision by the majority on the board. What makes us the Constitution, which makes us the law, now we're the power and we're the law, and that's the legality of the HDZ, but for years, we've enjoyed it, and we've wanted to believe that those times are behind us. And in that good faith, you deny us every time. I can kind of even understand your drive to humanize, given your consolidation of the ruling group, that you may feel in some way depressed or I don't know how. But you have no right to make an election within and after the election. And that's in our club. You simply do not have the right to do so, but you have the right as ruling as HDZ, as a party which is the holder of the ruling coalition to show in further staffing. That brother thanks God a lot, so please show your atrophied muscles in this new coalition or in the cooperation of the parties how you like to say it. However, what is the meaning of this law. So it is not the purpose of the provision of this law that it serves the opposition to massage the majority, but to protect the citizens and their fundamental human rights. You will see this in all international contracts, in all international consensus which, as well as conventions concerning this matter and surveillance of intelligence services, surveillance of the security and intelligence systems, and even somewhere mentioning the military. According to our Rules of Procedure, which is what you are afraid of, what our committee is dealing with. Among other things, this Committee on Internal Policy and National Security exercises control and supervision of police work. Is that how you show that you're already afraid of those controls in advance? In this way you show that you deny parliamentary control over the work of this Committee, which is also the meaning of this provision, therefore all democratic societies. Because this provision didn't just come into our law, but just by developing democracy because it had been back over 10, 15 years and it didn't exist. So, the aim of this provision and the application and of your duty and our duty to stick to the application of this law is precisely to prevent political abuse, abuse of power, and we enjoyed it the same way back in the '90s until 2000. Maybe it was later, I won't say it, but at the time you were looking at the gynaecological chart of a journalist, so it was really disgusting what was done. That's what we had the opportunity to look at and look at our own files that were enemies of the state. So in a way that you're essentially showing? That's disturbing. You show essentially what you think about democracy, about parliamentary democracy, about democracy in general, basically what you think about the position and place of man and citizen in society and the attitude of state government towards citizens. So you want to be a government that doesn't want to be controlled. You believe that democracy is exhausted after the election and formation of power. It's only a presumption of the exercise of democratic power. So you're also showing by this act your dominant political orientation. One day one of you is looking for lustration, the other day you're looking for a list of traitors, and now all of you together willingly in full consciousness and conscience are breaking the Security System Act of the Republic of Croatia Article 105(4). So, let the talks go and you're breaking the law. However, to avoid confusion many may think but I want to demystify you do not do it either out of arrogance or out of your own courage, you show at the very beginning such an act of uncertainty. This kind of procedure is an expression of your insecurity, of the deconcentration of important issues why citizens expect you to fix the standard. You're showing that even though you got rid of the Blacks, you're all Black.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2287	We have three replicas. The first replica of the esteemed representative Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2288	My colleagues, Ingrid Antičević, you also called for what Mr. Stazic said about the fact that in the 1990s journalists were being followed and I don't know what was going on. Yeah, you're not... Let me finish! [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You didn't say that when the six came to power that she opened all those files, she gave them to the press and said they wanted to sue the former state, service or services that did it. By the way, it wasn't the service I ran, but on behalf of those who did it, you should say this was a wartime, that it was a time when the media was inherited from the communist system, when they were members of various Yugoslav services in these media, and that it was the basis for doing such a thing. No one has prosecuted or prosecuted these people for these reasons, but you have subsequently used them to claim that human rights have been violated. None of these reporters filed charges for human rights violations, and you exaggerated the number of them. You can look at the archives of the Croatian Parliament because it was also debated on one of the calls, I don't know any more which is called by the Parliament on the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security where it was found that this number is not in any way as much as it claims to be because all those who have been followed, or who have been collateral victims, to say, those who have been followed as being subject to processing. Therefore, it is another deception and another falsification of historical facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2289	Second replica, Honorary Representative Petar Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2290	Well, here's to the respected Mrs. Ingrid I'd like to replicate in the part where she's persistently trying to discredit here the ruling majority and declare her legality illegal. I'm curious, so you're convinced that a hundred times repeated semi-information, disinformation that will become true by parrotic repetition. I think it's totally inappropriate. Where is it in law standing in which way the person of the N.N. must be on that and that duty. So you could have prepared yourself while you were the ruling majority and thus appointed that the board members were not voting on them at all, but that this and that representative were on the job of a party. Therefore, you are disinformationing the Croatian public here. And when you talk about the unprecedented, unrecorded practice of procedures, you have violated it yourself when establishing this call of the Croatian Assembly, when the appointment of President of the Parliament, where the honor comes from Mr. Leka, where you have practically violated that applicable practice that the President of the Parliament is elected by the acclaim of all MPs. Therefore, you disinform yourself and deny yourself in all respects. So let us be here to get through the regular procedure if you're not elected Jure will be Matte. So it is up to you to propose and make a proposal for us as the ruling majority to adopt it. And when we talk about democracy in Croatia and its development on today, a multi-party has been introduced into the Republic of Croatia. And we know why it was introduced, we know who was in power until then, who was the legal follower of that same party and that they're telling us today about the files and the development of Croatian society, I think it's totally inappropriate, unacceptable because you deny yourself in everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2291	Replica reply, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2292	I'm trying to tell you a colleague that this is neither a deal nor a negotiation. This is about the application of the law, the Law on the Security and Intelligence System of the Republic of Croatia Article 105(4). I will once again read it to you "With the work of the Committee of the Croatian Parliament responsible for national security, chaired by a representative from the ranks of the most representative opposition party." You have no right to choose, you have no right to choose, but you must leave this place to the largest opposition party. The biggest opposition party in the Croatian Parliament in the Republic of Croatia is the SDP that you liked it or you didn't like it. When we talk about multilaterals here, and you and we, they all gave up crime and communism, that's what we had a special declaration and it's not questionable, but you know what's questionable? What do you people who talk about so much and you like communist methods so much?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2293	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2294	Thank you very much. My colleague Ingrid, says a saying, "That healthy logic will always lead you from point a to point b, and imagination can take you wherever you want." That's how you try to counter sound logic today. The law is very clear, he did not predict the name he had foresaw the place that belonged to you. No one took it from you, that place of yours is still yours, it's still yours. And don't use lies to make it look like you're saying something right. And that's what happens to you because I already told you earlier you have an identity problem as a party, you don't know where you want to go. Do you understand me? You simply show by your actions over the past few days that you are also for censorship but also against that censorship. Well, then properly support Mrs. Rakic who introduced censorship, and then protest at the rally here again against that censorship. So that's the identity crisis. You must deal with it in your internal party process. It's up to you. We're not getting involved in this. But when you talk about good decisions, about how the opposition needs to be controlled by the government. That this government doesn't want the opposition to control it. Remind yourself of the law, the way you chose the director of HRT, the attorney general, the state's attorney. You chose for yourself, you suggested for yourself, you counted for yourself, remember? We asked for interviews you wouldn't let us have any suggestions or suggestions. You've forgotten that, gentlemen. But then I told you that everything you do in that term when you get off the line, you'll be welcomed and you'll have a big problem. It's this identity problem and you can't deal with it. It's gonna be okay. It's gonna be okay. It's gonna be okay. We'll pick the president as soon as he changes his name. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2295	Thank you. The following debate came from a distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2296	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Boric said that what we object about is that no one has taken our place, but what you are now trying to do to SDP as the largest opposition page in this House takes the right to determine who we will propose for the chairman of the Committee on Interior and National Security of the Croatian Parliament. You've begun to be heroic, you're quite the president of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Today, a session of the Committee on Elections, Appointing was held, and we only received in this explanation, so it says that the proposals were discussed and that with 7 votes against and 4 votes, it was not supported by the proposal to propose to the chairman of the Committee, Col. Ranko Ostojic. There was no debate as far as we know at the committee's session on this appointment proposal, but then the board president took it for the right to, after a committee meeting on the request of journalists who asked him what reasons, let the explanation for which they did not, so he did not pass the proposal, so said counterpart Lucic that Ostojic is not an adequate solution. He says the former minister is resentful, among other things, for showing aggression and uncertainty in the public performances and related to the SDP's internal elections. That's what my colleague Lucic said. And when they asked a fellow Simic who is a board member in front of the Most then he said he didn't really know what the reasons were. And then they asked, and then why did you go against it, and then at the club, they said it was our attitude, so ask the club president. So much for arguments to reject counterpart Ranko Ostovic to be appointed president of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. I am now wondering who you colleagues from the Patriot coalition are to speak this way about the members of our club, the suggestions we make and that in this way one chairman of the board and this important selection committee, the appointment in the Croatian Parliament, explain the committee's decisions in this way. That means the rest of you agree exactly that he, on behalf of the board, explains it this way. I was a member of the board and was re-elected as a member of the committee at one of the previous meetings of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. We have in the past term several times, here is Mr. Miroslav Tudjman, who was then president knows that, and he himself has been opening up a problem in the legislative sense regarding the general arrangements of the entire system and then we have spoken and especially he has indicated that parliamentary oversight is not sufficiently well-organised in these laws. In fact, it is the parliament, so the committee that should have other powers related to parliamentary oversight when it comes to the security intelligence system. We failed to do so during the last term. Now you've taken over the management of the state and I assume you'll be going in that section with certain changes and improvements. But colleagues and colleagues, what's going on today, and that's why we're practically after you because you don't like the name of a colleague from our club, that we're not going to choose the president of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, you say you have the right to expect that in the next week there will be a name. That we, we already suggested, re-proposed a colleague of Rank Ostojić and in a week we'll propose him, and in a month we'll propose him. Until then, as long as we play this way, until as long as you dispute our right to propose and determine who on behalf of the club will be at the head of that committee, that committee will not be able to function until then. And you colleagues from the ruling coalition are responsible for the failure of parliamentary oversight of the security intelligence system. How will tomorrow, if resolved, say the director of SOA will be resolved, who will give the previous opinion, who will resolve, who will give a preliminary opinion on the appointment of the new one? This can only be done on the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, i.e. some committee must convene and the Committee shall convene the chairman of the Committee. Well colleagues and colleagues, the responsibility for non-functioning of the board and for the failure of parliamentary oversight of the security intelligence system lies directly on you. My colleagues and colleagues from the Patriot coalition and MOST because you're in the coalition, because you're in cooperation or whatever. As MPs, I ask Mr. Chairman to place within this point, so to put to the vote a proposal for a representative that we are in accordance with Article 272. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, which is the appointment, Proposal for the appointment of the President of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2297	Thank you, we have three replicas. The first one came from Honorable Representative Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2298	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Comrade Sobol, you have rightly said that I have suggested that there be changes and stronger parliamentary supervision. Among other things, based on the fact that we have had parliamentary oversight in certain cases over the previous 4 years, I must remind you that there have always been two reports. One I wrote on behalf of the board and it was not accepted and it was minority and there was always another report that actually covered what the leaders of the people and what was done because it was always on these committees, as you know most of them have a ruling coalition regardless of what the chairman of the board is from the opposition. In other words, when you claim here that there will be an end to parliamentary surveillance, that it will be simply a violation of human rights again, I don't know what not all of it, a threat to the system, it was said not by you, but by the previous discussion. It's another dramaticization since today's role under existing laws is simply not effective enough. Therefore, we should discuss the measure of things and we have not discussed this measure of things and among other things is the responsibility of the leaders and who led the intelligence system, that is, the security system. But you also know that what I sent to all the board members, I sent to the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, I didn't even get the answer out of courtesy to talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2299	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2300	Thank you. Comrade Tudjman, when I mentioned you and when I spoke, I spoke in a positive way. And otherwise, so now you're the vice president, we have members and members, we'll have hope and the president has a majority on that committee. I don't have any illusions, that if tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, it went into some kind of surveillance that there would be no two opinions again. One that you will have as a ruling coalition and another that we may have as an opposition. I don't see anything wrong or bad about it. And I expect, or I expected, if you are already going this way towards the appointment of the board president that you will come with a concrete proposal to amend and supplement all the laws that you have spoken about in the past term and that this will go towards improving the system and towards a larger parliamentary one, stronger so to say, not greater, stronger parliamentary surveillance of the security-intelligence system. I'm afraid that's not exactly what they're up to. And I would be very interested in what the first vice president of the government will say about all of this. Or what happened today with the Committee on Selection and Appointment, the direct consequence of some new act by HDZ leader, the first Deputy Prime Minister, Tomislav Karamark, who is directly responsible and in charge of these areas as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2301	Thank you. Another replica of the distinguished representative Miroslav Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2302	Dear colleagues, first of all one correction, I am Miroslav Šimić and I am not a member of that committee, you have called me, you have read a false statement somewhere. So here I would ask you at the beginning all that first of all about the attitudes of MOST, you'll get a chance to hear from us MPs don't find those attitudes in the media, you've obviously got an incorrect last name and you've got attitudes that we put out in person. So reminding MOST of independent lists brings together different independent individuals, independent lists and the position of our club is that each MP is a particular vote on this point as he wants and thinks. We are different from the standard political parties, and we are proud of that, and today we will prove it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2303	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2304	Dear fellow Simic, my apologies if this is also in the newspaper's writings your name came up without you actually being a member of the board. But you know it's only because the MOST's position on this question I couldn't read anywhere, nor did you say it here. Comrades and colleagues, now you from MOST if you don't understand yet, but then you have to understand this is Parliament. Today, what happened on the board is going directly against the constitutional democratic practice and against the legal provision that speaks of the appointment of the president of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. And I would kindly ask that we do not read the newspaper inscriptions and that perhaps we do not misread them. So give your colleagues and colleagues a variety of independent lists, but you're like a MOST club so you could get around this issue and manifest yourself on behalf of the club or at least some of you in your individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2305	Thank you. The replica was also reported by Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2306	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mrs. Sobol, listening to the arguments of the Patriot coalition they're about to take down on that SDP is right, the one you suggested doesn't like, some others we might like. This reminds me of the situation from May 1991 when Stipe Mesic came to be the president of the Yugoslav Presidency and then they said we don't like Stipe Mesic, but from Croatia there can be someone else. Therefore, it is the political school of Bora Jovic, the principle is the same, and everything else is nuances.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2307	It is not appropriate to compare with Borislav Jovic. The next individual debate was attended by a distinguished representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2308	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't want to talk about Boris Jovic, I don't want to talk about the '90s, but I'm going to talk about the things they're sending at me today a very bad picture of us here and the Croatian Parliament and the ruling coalition towards the public, which is that we want to bring down the established democratic practice and we want some standards that Croatia has reached back. The two preconditions are essential to select the chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy. One is which the law defined as being from the opposition and the other is for the opposition to choose and propose the candidate. What should enable him not to be chairman of the board is not the will of the majority, because then it is the violence of the majority and it is not good for our democratic practice. Calling on individual cases from the past sounds a little bit and no, I'd say unserious. It was a representative who was from the opposition quota. Nobody liked it. It's about most people, it's about opposition. This case Mr. Shuker told the speaker refers to an opposition representative during that period. So, the opposition hasn't lost a seat on that committee Mr. Shucker's talking about. So it's very simple without anything I'd say I'd like anything to go back, to analyze the 1990s that I don't think there's an excessive need. I think we have the right as an opposition to propose a man who has defined the law to oversee the board and secret services and police and humanitarian activities, fires. You see everything that's written in Parliament's Rules of Procedure. In his work so far, Mr Ostojić has certainly proved that most of these duties can be performed. This argument that he is nervous also does not send a positive and serious picture of either the board or the board president or the Croatian Parliament. Which is why we're getting into personal subjective evaluations about the opposition candidates. Mr. Ostojic has met all the criteria to be chairman of the board and should be allowed to do so. Not only do we send a bad picture to the public, we send it to the international public. Do we want to get into sections like some EU countries where certain rights and democratic standards are reduced? Is that the intensity of the majority in the Croatian Parliament, or Croatian Government? I guess we want to go forward, we don't want to go back and we don't want to have less standards than we've achieved together now. As far as voting is concerned, it should be put to the vote today and shown to the Croatian voters and the Croatian public who is thinking and who is for what democratic practice and respect for the law, to see each of the parliamentary MPs who has sworn to comply with Croatian laws as they will vote. It would be good to stick to the standards we've reached. Perhaps the problem is that the Patriot coalition wants to continue the practice it had when appointmenting ministers, come on, three, I'll choose who's best. But you can't do that. Maybe I'd rather be Mr. Schucker Minister of Finance, not Zdravko Maric, but I'm an opposition, I'm an opposition. I don't choose. Thus, most should not choose the minority who will be its representative in any body because it sends a very bad message to the Croatian public and to the international institutions for the standards we have reached. I'm not talking about the controls, the reports. Probably according to the practice that was in the past, it's probably hard to achieve this when you have a vote on the board but it's always made possible for a minority and a position that's much more visible as the board president to have his own voice and say what he thinks. That's how Mr. Tudjman should be with Mr. Ostojić today. Do not reduce democratic standards in Croatia by referring to examples of individuals who cannot compare at all with this situation that is happening today. Today we have a situation where most of me would say force wants to disable the right that the law has made possible for minorities. I am convinced that the MPs sitting here will respect the law and respect the democratic procedures that Croatia has adopted regardless of emotion, whether anyone likes it, whether someone has said one word more or less is absolutely irrelevant. We are MPs, we are here to do our job and do not make it impossible for gentlemen and ladies of the ruling coalition to do their job, which is to protect certain rights and standards that have been reached in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2309	Thank you. We have three replicas at your hearing. He is the first to be respected representative of Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2310	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Comrade Maras, if we go from partial or fragmental truths, then we can come up with messages like this that this is a bad message to both domestic and foreign. However, it should be said that other countries are probably facing the same problem right now, finding solutions for members of such committees, whether for internal policy and national security, whether for intelligence services, which in our case overlaps or is largely the same, simply being agreed by the presidents of the strongest clubs suggest that they go into checks, so it is a matter of security verification and only when this agreement is reached that they are appointed. In this way, these discussions on the majority that decides or does not decide on minority proposals are simply avoided. So it would be much better if we were to talk about the scale of things, about problems, not about such messages as how this is the destruction of democracy and the wrong messages to other countries because simply other countries have other solutions that have avoided such confrontations at plenary sessions.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2311	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2312	Thank you very much. Mr. Tudjman, but with your replica, you just gave me the right. So you see the problem, you see that we have the right to suggest it, and now you're looking for some other solution that would suspend it or that would no longer exist. So you just said with your debate that we have the right to propose and that other countries have different solutions to avoid such a debate if the ruling coalition has decided not to want someone. So if that's the case, if you think it'll help us raise democratic standards, then suggest a new law. But don't break the law now. You've got enough hands for that. So we'll discuss it, and we'll see if people agree on it. But at this point, the law that's in force and you can't break it, or you shouldn't break it. Unfortunately, as people say, I'm not going to quote now, but force is never good. If you have any objections to how this works now, both you as a representative and a club and the government can change the law that is in force and introduce a new rule. And not referring to other examples now I would say one violence against the opposition. It is a very bad message to Croatian citizens. And there's nothing you can do to change that. You have all the elements to do what you think is right and do it. But what you're doing right now isn't right.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2313	Thank you. The next replica, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2314	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, fellow Maras, you're talking about the good democratic practice that was in this House when Mr. Leco was elected and a series of other presidents of the Croatian Parliament. I'm here four times, and every time I squeezed for everyone, and it was arranged, so we saw that most had enough hands of parliamentary deputies and there were all, working bodies and everything was chosen as good democratic practice requires. Except in these examples of your last fits of anger that you lost power. It is then that you will be restrained, all but the former President of the Parliament who continued this democratic practice and voted for the new president of the Croatian Parliament. You're asking us to be democratic and to respect practice. And we all have the right to vote in Croatia today as free will requires. It's democracy. It's not a violation of the law. If we don't want a gentleman at the head of the National Security Committee, we won't even vote. Who's going to force us? Nobody! We've been democratically given the opportunity to control these keys as our conscience tells us to. Reasons for why we're not for him... Of course we'll make the election. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But you must agree that you lost the election, you were hystericalally against Mr. Reiner and today you are asking us to be Mr. Ranko Ostojić. Well, we won't, you see we won't be. You cannot force us or the Croatian public that it is illegal. No, it's not illegal, but about those people we want to debate democratically, you'll have to let us vote on our conscience.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2315	Thank you. The answer to the replica of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2316	It's hard to pollomize with someone who says the law should be disrespected. So give us some trouble, tell us who to suggest if that's the case. So there's as many of us here as there are in opposition 70, suggest who you want. Is that the point of the law? Is that the law? Watch that when the proposal comes from the privates, I'll take my personal man Darko Milanovic as a sender. So let's not joke on that side. This is too serious. Do we want to obey the law or do we not want to obey the law? And there's nothing else, you can't choose between the opposition who's going to be chairman of the board, so that's pointless. And you said well, Mr. Djakic, we agreed on all the committees, that we could not agree on this on the selection and appointment committee either. Whether the vote was more or less squeezed in the vote, the difference between the vote and the vote. But they all passed the Board of Selection and Appointment except for this because it is reportedly by Mr. Lucic's assessment that the chairman of the SDP's board of directors seems to be a little nervous. So what is it? Don't take the Parliament to the lardy, and I said violence against the opposition. Here's what I'm asking you. You cannot choose who will be chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2317	The next replica is the distinguished representative Tanja Vrbat Grgic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2318	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Maras, you probably forgot a few years in the ministry what was going on in these parliamentary benches while you were formerly a representative, so you probably forgot about the so-called. High standards of democratic practice of HDZ colleagues. There's been a lot going on here, and I don't expect any high democratic standards from them at all. Let's say I remember a great precedent in Parliament when counterpart Zeljko Jovanovic was being stripped of immunity for something that was said in these parliamentary benches. And that's what we've been through. However, my colleague Maras, I'm surprised why no one here mentions colleagues from the Most? You can't pretend you're not from around here. You support the violation of the law, you swear to transparency and reform. The only reforms we have seen in these two weeks are the collapse of democratic standards and all parliamentary procedures.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2319	The answer to the replica of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2320	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vrbat Grgic, I followed whatever I was in the ministry and debates, inspired debates by Mr. Šuker and Djakić, and it was really inspiring for me because then I worked much better because I saw these discussions in the Croatian Parliament that Croatian citizens probably followed. But what's more important than what kind of debates colleagues Sucker or Djakic have is that we, as parliamentary representatives, have to act as drunks to uphold the law. A man who has sworn an oath to the Croatian Constitution and the laws must not vote against them and cannot interpret them as it pleases him. That's not possible. I will repeat again that the ruling coalition chooses the opposition who will implement their, not committees, but who will implement their place, or their policies. Well, then we'd go back to the one-party system. So is that what you want? If that's what you're up to, say it so clearly. You want to have one party that will decide everything and that in the end the opposition is wondering nothing, that citizens are not important. And one more thing I'd like to draw your attention to, that in certain circumstances, my colleagues in MOST reacted differently from their colleagues from the Patriot coalition. It was a lot of ideas of genius, lock-up like a traitor's register, like all sorts of things to say, I don't know who would come up with it all in general, but here's how they reacted differently, so I'm convinced that since they're not saying that they're going to think about it in this case and that they're going to overcome what everyone's supposed to be interested in. Not stubborn, not caprice, not love or hatred for someone, but democratic standards and practices that we have in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2321	Thank you. Following the replica in an individual debate, a respected representative of Tomislav Saucha appeared. I apologize for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2322	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So here's this very statement from fellow Djakic who's now out who's going to force us. He just said who's going to force us to do it, we're not actually going to ask me to look back at exactly what we're saying all the time that there are two things. First, good parliamentary practice, democratic standards and respect for the law. And as for respecting the law, there was a little bit of a upside down drink. So we now claim that our HDZ colleagues intend to respect the law but not in the way we see it, but in the way they see it. So if they meet their request to change the candidate. So this candidate if the law says that the right to propose has the largest group, the opposition group in the Croatian Parliament, it's us. So I guess I had a right to determine who that candidate was. So that's where we enter from the sphere of violation of the law in the area of violation of good parliamentary practice, so until the end of parliamentaryism. By that logic, you, as the ruling majority of your will, could then be without a problem, because whoever else can force you to do something like Mr. Djakic said, you could choose absolutely everything. You could, for example, bring, amend the Rules of Procedure, you could pick all the Vice-Presidents of the Parliament from the ranks of the ruling, you could simply rule out the opposition from all working bodies, not to be presidents of any working body. So who can force you to do that? So the only thing that can force you to do that is the Rules of Procedure that we should stick to here like my colleague Maras said, so I'm not going to say "drunk panel," maybe it's an ugly saying, but we should definitely stick to it pretty tightly. Because that's the only thing that stands between us and violence, so between us, between parliamentaryism and something that definitely can't be parliamentaryism and that would be the will and violence of the majority over the minority. The opposition in the Croatian Parliament has a role to play and a function. The opposition in Croatia has a role to play and a function. And when the Security Intelligence System Act in its Article 105(4) said that the president of that working body proposes the largest political group of opposition, it has its own logic as colleagues and colleagues. That logic is that we are individually the strongest opposition party and as such we have the greatest power to warn of irregularities that can occur within the security-intelligence system. I don't think most of you in this House should explain what the powers of the security intelligence system are, which is the potential of a terrible, terrible potential for the abuse of that security intelligence system and that control is necessary and that if you really want to be at the head of that committee someone who can at any time and scream about what's going on and that has all the media attention. That's the point. And now we're going back to the fact that you simply say that we will respect the law but if it isn't Ostojic but if it is Pero. It's our right. You can't take that right away from us. And we won't agree to that. And our proposal will be today Ranko Ostojić, our proposal will be tomorrow Ranko Ostojić and will be the day after tomorrow Ranko Ostojić. And you colleagues and colleagues are the parliamentary majority and you have responsibility for the functioning of this home, you have responsibility for the functioning of the state. So this committee has a very important role to play. If it comes to the fact that the Committee of Presidents does not have and I also draw attention to Article 47 to 49 of the powers of the President of the Working Body for convocation, that committee will not be able to function without the President. So I don't know how you expect this committee to play its part, the role it has, prescribed by the Security Intelligence Community Act. You as a majority, after selecting a president, with that, I really don't understand what you're afraid of, because the president of that working body isn't some Superman, it's not some kind of power. I don't think Ranko Ostojić is going to be able to leave that position without being able to get into the OTC, so I'm going to give some bits of paper to see if it's listening I don't know, sir, I'm not going to go to names right now, I know there's going to be a thousand and one replica. I think you know who I mean. There's a procedure, there's most of it on the board, there's rules of conduct, there's rules of procedure. You know how that body works. And you, like most, have most of them in that body. And you will still be able to lead that committee but the president of that body must be of the ranks of the opposition, must be of the ranks of the strongest opposition party and it is our right to say who it will be. It is your responsibility to accept it or refuse it, it is your responsibility whether or not this important body of this Croatian Assembly will work. Don't try to move that ball on us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2323	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2324	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague, you've described it well that I'm threatening some kind of force that we won't, but the democratic right in this House is that we can do that. So that we can apply those practices that you have introduced. The practice was real and good and we all accepted it as normal to agree on these essential things that they needed to function and from for democratic surveillance. Today it's about man and principle and it's democracy. The principle that when someone on a series of occasions does something that they say is democratic and teaches us how we do it against the law, no, we don't do it against the law but democratic practice is also equal for you to support and what we were in opposition was proposed to support and what the president gave consent to have enough mandate to be President of the Parliament, Mr Reiner. You've broken that. Mr. Shuker gave you all the examples, but that doesn't mean anything. Today when we say that we will not support it, but the principle you broke first, you have made it unworthy and made this home only from your dissipation to be abstention or against and to harm someone and now ask us to be the ones who have to accept your proposal. ... It's not stubborn. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here's a democratic debate where we discuss how it's best or how it should be. And the indeterminateness of the legal provisions certainly prevents any member from being particularly high-ranking, such as the Committee on National Security from giving an opinion and criteria as it should be. Here's democracy means discussion and arguments. But good practice has been violated by you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2325	The reply to the replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Sauch.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2326	Yeah, exactly what you just said actually makes every comment I make superfluous. You're the position and you're the one who's in a position to accept or not accept, which is exactly why you, because you have the power to decide. That's why we have to stick to the principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2327	Next for discussion, a single debate was registered by Stevo Culej.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2328	Dearly beloved, like this. I will speak to you from one of my perspectives which I will say to you this way that I am here among you the oldest who is here in the Croatian Parliament resident, tenant because I kept the Parliament in '91. years from the basement about 15 days at the atomic shelter. As Special Police War Commander, I had the honour of serving and meeting many ministers from Minister Vekic to Jarnjak. The ones in between, I'm not even gonna name them, they're not worth it. Mr. Ranko Ostojić the man who was proposed for one function very esteemed, high, responsible may be elected or not. We have decided that he is not a similar candidate for our decision of positives. Why? I'll pray for silence. I'd like to finish this on time. Why? Each candidate for any function must have certain characteristics that adorn him. There is also one system in the police to assess positively, negatively, and therefore everyone is paid or punished, awarded to climb the official ladder or not to climb. And this is what I'm going to say about Mr. Rank. I had to write it down, but there's a lot of it. Moral values and some other professional loyalness to the homeland, and the rest I will give insolence. According to who? Insolence towards the first war minister, Mr. Ivan Vekic, when he, as interior minister, finds it not appropriate that at least in front of the interior ministry, the widow shows his sympathies. I don't want to go on about it. To speak of Darka Pajcic, the Croatian defender whose head was crushed in Vukovar in front of a police station from whom our worthy minister rewarded for his merits. I won't go who it is, what it is and where it's from. The replacement of Commander Allen Klabot of one of Croatia's largest special forces, one founder of the Special Police ATJ Lučko known from many bloody battles that have produced that you gentlemen sit here to put him away in a shameful, insensitive manner and for which and how, not to respect all the negativity that you have produced in your power. One commander of ATJ Lučko at a time when the greatest dangers of terrorism in Europe and possibly with us and in the environment that surrounds us here replace him for what? Because of the abuse of an official vehicle. That's enough just for that case. There's more, but there's a picanteria going on like this. Mr. Minister Rajko Ostojic, Ranko Ostojic, do you know if you are familiar with the arms smuggling from the Varazdinska Police Administration from the warehouse involving certain members of the HNS. Now they're not members because they're quick to get off the list. How did you respond to the queries that were filed at the time, when 20 guns, 16 automatic pistols, TNT 2.8 kg, detonators, 30 bombs, laser targets, MGV rifles, tanks and more were found in that action. How is it possible then in the paper to declare the largest police action in the seized weapons not to indicate where the weapon came from, that it was from a police warehouse. Why didn't anyone answer that, so I resigned myself, not Alan Clubbot, who'd do a lot better to stop it. Furthermore, that's all true, I support it with documents, because I don't like it without documents. He says like this, how many minutes do I have left? Members of the Croatian People's Party are versatile, pro-European-oriented, so we have a chance to read in the media to deal with arms smuggling across Europe. However, no one wondered where that weapon came from in January this year. According to unverified information, part of the weapon originates from police warehouses, so I would ask MUP Minister Ranko Ostojić to answer whether it is true, whether a certain number of these weapons are indeed from police warehouses from which and what he has taken on this issue. Regarding the issue of weapons smuggling from police warehouses, instead of Minister Ranko Ostojic's immediate resignation, he is responding that criminal research is still under way. So, he admits you are currently unable to give further clarifications. There's more. On the case like this, the Republic of Croatia to the Ministry of the Interior, in the event of finding a larger amount of firearms and other means of killing, we are free to tell you that police officers are conducting criminal research and criminal acts in cooperation with the competent State Attorney's office. They spend how much time it takes to do that. If I'm going to go from personal experience, I have to mention that in a year you've managed to find 15 witnesses against me and the case has 103 pages, so I'm interested in how many pages this case has. I'm sorry, I've got another three comma forty to tell you. As far as guns are concerned, the story's closed, but there's no end because your story lasted four years. Now, I'm not surprised by your answers, your views, your expressions of love or Mark's square, talking about Mark's square where I took part in that famous action of breaking into the territory of the Holy Table of the Croatian Catholic Church, beating up Croatian defenders from the Homeland War of the Worst Disabilities, preventing even the need not to have a list in a criminal case. I ask, Mr. Ranko Ostojić has filed a criminal complaint against you in Zagreb at the County State's Attorney's Office. As far as I know it wasn't rejected, it was passed on to USKOK. How is PNUSKOK connected to UskoK? Are you in conflict of interest as a candidate of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security? I was warned by one witness who filed that application on you, and she's standing upstairs. And beyond that, the question for you, how would you treat these accusations if everything came to your table, if we chose you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2329	Thank you. We've got four reports of damage to the Rules of Procedure. The first is Darko Paric, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2330	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I request that the Rules of Procedure be broken in accordance with Article 236 of the Rules of Procedure or Article 238. And I'm surprised to you, Mr. Vice President, who, by the way, is a nice man that you've allowed such a rude violation of the Rules of Procedure under Article 238, where it says that during the hearing, a representative must not be demeaning or insulting the president or other MPs. Everything my colleague Culey said is in this article. Therefore, since you have failed to give a reminder or anything else, I ask you to respond in accordance with Article 240 that you warn the MPs by taking away their words because this really is not worth any comment. I ask you to protect the integrity of this House and do not allow this kind of debate in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2331	Next proposal for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, the distinguished representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2332	I also call on Article 238, paragraph 1, that the representative must not speak of a subject which is not subject to discussion and indent 5, disdaining or insulting the president or other representative. There has been such an insult by one of the MPs who has been elected to the Croatian Parliament, like all of us, has the support of part of the public, has the support of part of his constituents and has the right to be and proposed and elected to all the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague who has brought up so many things here that don't belong to a normal debate at all, one normal parliamentary debate, and on behalf of the club, I won't ask for a break but I protest, I protest deeply, and I ask that our club and colleague Ranko Ostojić be excused.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2333	And a report for the violation of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2334	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I also refer to article 238, this is outrageous in the Croatian Parliament. No one has ever in this way attacked a fellow representative without any evidence, any of which I would say except for my subjective views. I call upon you to protect us from these baseless attacks. So you can't call a lawyer a fellow representative of another a category like that, you can name reports that no one has a clue about. So this is one aggression that obviously comes from two things, one is personal and the other is who I can be now in power. So that's not good. Protect fellow MPs in the Parliament. The gentleman got lost one thing that was very important, he said is not like being. Remember that word. It's back at a time when similarity was determined in one party. Mr. Culey, you can't determine who's like him and who's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2335	We have a series of replicas on this debate. The first to appear for replica was the distinguished representative Tomislav Koncevski.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2336	Your Honor, Vice President. I'm sorry you didn't keep this House and this country safe in the '90s. If you've been keeping this Parliament in the basement, and it seems you forgot to guard the state in the '90s when it was robbed in this country. If you were doing that job as a military police commander, I'd be very glad you kept doing that job. And as for gun smuggling, was that criminal charges filed? If it wasn't you, you had to take it anyway. And now I'm curious if you have any knowledge of these actions I think a criminal report should be filed against you if you failed to submit and have knowledge.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2337	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2338	Everything exists in the archives under manual numbers, and ask me where I was while robbing the Croatian state was not appropriate, sir, for one reason, that I was sitting here instead of all of you sitting all these years it might not have happened. If I'd controlled it, it wouldn't have happened. And if I had had those resources that you do not know if you can justify Croatia at all, it would have long been where it belongs, in Europe, not on its way to the region of the one from the east where you intended it. I understand who you are, what you are, what direction you're looking at. Just like who I am and what I am. A long time ago one of yours divided you into us or them. One Mr. President Franjo Tudjman, who, with his reconciliation of 91s, united all Croats in one sacred goal of having this country where you too enjoy the fruits of someone's sacrifice, someone's blood, and that now you enjoy it in the diaries, is good and kitchen, for the first time I've been engrossed here as it's all beautiful. I admire how you've lasted all these years here, and I'll try it with you, so at least I'll replicate and help you contribute to my homeland. Thank you very much, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2339	Thank you. Please report to your colleagues for the replica, so replicate and not all collectively. Next to the replica, distinguished representative Damir Tomic appeared.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2340	Thank you, Vice President. I don't know if patriotism has a term of duration? If it's to judge by Mr. Culey, I'd say yes, and even I think so. Sir, what you did in Bor's village last year on the anniversary of the death of the directors, when you turned your back on the Minister of Interior that you disagree with, it's not patriotism. Maybe it's because the minister didn't consult with you about some human resources and now you're judging. You judge us. Well, I have nothing to add to that, shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2341	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Stevo Culej.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2342	Sir, there's our Honorable Minister, Ranko Ostojić, with whom he negotiated a protocol in which I was sent back two years after the release, so our distinguished President, Kolinda Grabar Kitarevic, brought me back to the state protocol at my personal request, with her authority, honored the victim of twelve monks by coming there, my Mr. Minister of Honor knows that I welcomed him there, that I participated in the protocol and never turned my back because I wasn't on that team, you mean the werewolf headquarters. Furthermore, in that same village of Bor in the state protocol that I set up with thousands of special forces from all over the country that I bring there every 2.5, where I give a speech to know who died, why and for who in that place. I've been kicked out of protocol for two years. Why? They wouldn't let me talk. The witnesses are under you. Furthermore, speaking of Bor's village can I, not you, no one here but me. Because my brother is trapped there, wounded, dragged into a yard and beaten. His wounds were inflicted on him for life, you were to tell me about Bor's village shame upon you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2343	The violation of the Rules of Procedure is a respected colleague of Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2344	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, don't take this as learning. According to Article 236 of the Rules of Procedure, an explanation is expected. So colleagues have expressed a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but you have not shown yourself to this breach of the Rules of Procedure. ... I've been raised, my colleague Shuker, I expected the vice president to react, his duty means after you've shown a breach of the Rules of Procedure that you're reading about this injury to the Rules of Procedure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2345	Thank you. Next to the replica, distinguished MP Domagoj Hajdukovic appeared.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2346	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Culey, I respect that you are a Croatian defender, my brother is also a Croatian defender, it's something valuable and I don't think we should be doing anything like that at all. The qualifications you've made about some of my colleagues are terrible, but what I can tell you and most unfortunately your colleagues on the other side of the assembly is that by listening to your discussions, I can only conclude that you're political analphabets. And I'll tell you why, because you repeatedly call for violations of the law. He doesn't want to quote the law again, I don't want to say again which articles are, that's what my colleagues and colleagues did before me. Maybe I should, they say repeating is the mother of knowledge, so let's do it again. But does it make us unholy that we want to respect the laws of this country and you to the patriots because you repeatedly call for violation? Democracy is a fellow process and law. What separates us from totalitarianism is exactly the respect of the law. And so we don't talk too much about ideologies, I'm gonna use one metaphor if you keep this up, I'm afraid that part of the assembly is going to be fascistd and this one was and it's going to stay anti-fasher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2347	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Stevo Culej.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2348	Thanks, buddy. I'm glad to hear from you, that you're active with all due respect. I would also like to see this country that some have fallen for repeat myself and some have never seen it, nor would they want to raise my voice against those youngsters falling. I would most like to be in this country, I call it my country, not the state to enforce the laws of the Republic of Croatia, but in this country my country and those who have fallen for it, many are not implemented. And you're aware of that, and you know exactly what laws don't apply, and I'm going to do that another time when I'm preparing the material a little bit better.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2349	Thank you. The replica was reported by distinguished representative Darko Paric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2350	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Comrade Culey, 91st, you have guarded this building, this House, you have fought for this Croatia that we have today and for everything we have. At any rate, it's worth the respect. But today 2016, when you entered this House, at least what you are expected to do today is fight for what you fought for in '91. And those years. The way you speak here today and what you are talking about respecting the law and at the same time today you do not want to comply with the law passed by this Parliament on the election of the President of the Committee on Internal and National Security shows in principle the whole absurdity that lies with you in your head between the positions between '91 and '91. when you fought for this country and this country today in principle that has nothing to do with what you've been fighting with. And that absurd isn't hard to understand at all. I invite you to think about it a little bit, not too hard and to see that you're probably not the person you were in '91 today. And you don't seem to share any more of the values you've been fighting for, somewhere along the way they're lost, think about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2351	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Stevo Culej.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2352	With all due respect, colleagues, the laws of this country are not respected in the section, I'll explain it to you in this way. What are the laws of this country that allow the victim to be disgraced, so the victim of 12 directors, is ashamed of himself in Borov Selo. In what way? Shame on you in that way that on one monument that made the MUP stands here, he died, 12 names and last names, and it didn't say anything why, by whom, in the name of which, until I had my own will from the special police company put a record that was appropriate there so that there was a history of teaching. But I'll also tell you that there is another record in this same place, another mausoleum, so the officers who were killed on their regular mission by saving their two colleagues from the Chetnik hands who arrived from Serbia from the order of Dusan the Powerful and White Eagles, knows the defender, Predrag Matic Fredo, what I'm talking about. So 12 cops go free their friends and get killed in that same action. And now in that same place there's a monument to whom? The one who killed them. Vukashina Vuleta Šoškočan, a Chetnik duke who has memories, a 5-metre mausoleum, and I have submitted it all to this Assembly, is rarely answered by anyone. So the monument says here that Vukasin Vulet is a Chetnik duke who is the hero of the Serb people. And then the lyrics about how he looks at his village proudly at his Serbian brothers and sisters, Serbian flags wind up on Serbian territory. On whose territory do the Croatian, do I not know, insult the existence and words of the victim and the people who died, I repeat again because of you all [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2353	The next call came the distinguished representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2354	And my colleague Culey I see you have introduced another novelty into this House, which is the moral political resemblance of the opposition representatives, which you will obviously propose for different elections and appointments when they come from this side. I have to correct you, you're not the oldest here, I was the '90s parliamentary representative, so I was in this assembly. I was a parliamentary representative and when we were a minority from 2007 to 2011, I was also a parliamentary representative of the majority but never in Parliament's history did what you did today. And I watched the faces of your colleagues from the Patriot coalition, a colleague from the MostA, and they were embarrassed as you tried to explain yourself and justify what cannot be justified or explained. Your president from your ranks in this House has said in his first speech a famous saying that he does not have to agree with someone's opinion but will fight until the last drop so that that opinion can be expressed. Therefore, you as the majority in this House should especially fight to respect the rights of minorities, in this case opposition, and do not do what you are doing here today to prevent this honorable man from becoming president of a committee that needs to have exceptional expertise because we have witnessed in the past advocacy that because of the bad moves of a man who was even an expert one offender found out that he was being followed. So, fellow Culeus, be an upright parliamentary representative and do not defile your colleagues because this is the last thing that can be done in this House. This Parliament does not enjoy great popularity in the public and you and everyone who speaks like you will have an even smaller... Public than he has now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2355	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Stevo Culej.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2356	It's clear to me that you may have been at this House before me, but you left this House when you were supposed to stay in Parliament and on our side.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2357	Next up for discussion...... Please call me if you have anything to say. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] A distinguished representative named Branimir Glavas appeared for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2358	Dear Mr. President, I'm going to criticise my comrade, Mr. Culey, how he performed and how he addressed his colleague, Mr. Ostojic. Mr. Culey is my comrade from the first days of the war, I will only correct him that I was also here in Parliament on May 30, 1990, and fortunately, or unfortunately, I did not guard the Parliament. If I'd kept the Parliament safe, I'd probably have my life trip headed in a different direction. But also Mr. Ostojić, Ranko Ostojić is my mate. I am now googled and Mr Ostojić has a fighting sector, a war route from 30 June 1991 to 23 April 1992, so a total of 299 war days. War days at a time when Croatia really needed it. After that date, after April 23, '92. Indeed, there was a major Serbian aggression. Just over a month after Mr. Ostojić, I was demobilized, too. So, at the time Croatia was to be defended, Mr Ostojić defended Croatia with a rifle and has the status of Croatian defender as well as Mr Culej. I fully respect Mr. Culey for your family tragedy and for your brother's death. I come from a part of Croatia where we knew each other less or more or at least I've heard of you at the time and I give you credit for it. But I point out that this behavior is first as a fellow representative inadmissible, and second as a comrade, as the defender of the Croatian state at the most difficult times when Croatia bled it is absolutely unacceptable for any criticism. In your presentation, you mentioned Mr. Ostojić's work as minister, you mentioned some kind of investigation. That's what Mr. Ostojić was doing his job. Just give me a second. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] And I was exposed to investigations during Mr. Ostojic's time as the director of the police from the 1990s to the 1990s, and he was investigating me, too, but he wasn't setting up evidence. I was investigated during the Ministers and Directors of Police who came from your political camp, investigated, but the evidence was set up. It's an important, important difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2359	The next call came the distinguished representative Zeljko Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2360	Mr President-in-Office If we're gonna talk by midnight here, at least you have the decency to listen. [[Please!]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This isn't the 30s Stalinist era in the Soviet Union. Like this, I'd just say this. I have nothing against Mr. Ostojic, but I have something against this state where there is no rule of law. First of all, what the voters are looking for. Outside you have Croatian voters who have been totally removed from this discourse. Here's how we're gonna talk to nobody... Please, thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'll listen to you, I've been listening so hard here all morning and all day. Like this, what are voters out of Croatia looking for? You've got three million who are first deprived of their right to vote, have a formal vote, and have six hours to fly somewhere to vote. Third-world countries have a letter vote. Let's do the right thing, not the peripheral stuff. Question for Mr. Ostovic. How can the company disappear, the weapons for the entire company that Mr. Culey is saying here? That's not two, three guns. That's a hundred pieces of long and short pipe. What about the swastika, the swastika down in Po man... What's going on here? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Nonstop mister, I don't know the gentleman's name I forgot him talking about the robbery. Let's go about robbing the Croatian state, let's go about robbing a little bit. Let's ask ourselves here when the privatisation started and who started it? That I... And what about the property that has been nationalized has never been returned, with Jewish and Croatian assets in the city of Zagreb for example. [[Because of the noise in the assembly, the speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Optics Sanader: Please allow the MP to finish.]] What about that property? That's what we have to ask ourselves. What about private property in Croatia? Three stores have been taken from my family, and today hundreds of thousands of euros have never been returned. What about that property? And what about the robbery that is, what is conversion and privatisation and who spent it? Is that the Central Committee of the SKH? What about... UDBAs sitting in important places today, and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not peripheral stuff, it's national security issues. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Please answer those questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2361	Please, colleagues, hold the dignity of this Croatian Parliament. Can we go on? Mr. Paric? The next individual debate was attended by distinguished representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2362	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. I have to start by saying there aren't so many of my colleagues I've been with here for years. After returning 4 years from the executive power, I must admit that I feel very bad today in Parliament, because I did not leave this Parliament. And when I was a minister and vice president, when I came to this House, I didn't get any insults from you, we discussed the law, you made your arguments. But I must admit that today I feel terrible, because what I feel about individuals here is actually one great hatred and one great desire for revenge for individuals. It's bad, it's bad primarily for you from the lines from which such words come and you'll have to deal with it. Likewise, the hatred of individuals destroys them themselves, destroys them themselves, so think about it, you will continue to cultivate hatred. She was being held back here by people in the 1990s, there was a voice of reason. Somehow I can't hear him here today. No one but the citizens can judge who's good for business in this House except for them, no one. We've all been to the elections, for all of us the citizens have said what they think, and so has Ranko Ostojić. Therefore, none other than citizens who have given him confidence as well as any of us have the right to say that he is good for a position or a bad one. The same responsibility is upon you now. You're in power, you're in charge. We have control. We have a control mechanism that you have had for the past four years, but responsibility for the functioning of this Parliament, especially the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, lies primarily on you as the now ruling structure. You will obviously have to deal with the fact that in the coming period you will not have the chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security because we will not give another person, neither would you. Ranko Ostojić is a person who, as Mr. Glavas said above all, is a Croatian defender. Apparently, some think that Croatian defenders were only in one party, they weren't. There were also in the SDP, the HNS of all parties, outside the parties. So, Ranko Ostojić is a Croatian defender. Secondly, Ranko Ostojic is a person who, during his time as Interior Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, left his life in Gunja and five Slavonian villages. He was not the minister who sat in the chair and co-ordinated from the chair the rescue of the people who were drowned. He was a minister who was in the field, he slept under tents like everyone else, got sick and was literally one foot in the other world. This is where the people who saved his life sit. Ranko Ostojic, as interior minister and Deputy Prime Minister, has done a job that some of his colleagues in the EU have not done. So the moment the migrants headed towards Croatia, in thousands, across the border Ranko was headed also immediately to Opatovac, organized there camp, acceptance. We were actually an example of a view thanks primarily to him and his energy, a country that showed its humanity to people who ran away from trouble like our people unfortunately ran away in the '90s during the war, but it also showed that we could control the whole story with migrants, that we didn't have to become a hot spot. You know, it's not easy for the European Council to stand up like a small country and say I don't accept it on behalf of my country and I won't be a hot spot. That's what Ranko Ostojić did. He stood up and said no, we won't be. Croatia is too small, we carry a heavy burden, we take care of migrants, we list them, we take care of them, we deal with neighboring countries, we don't lift the wire. And nowhere in Croatia anything bad happened because the whole crisis and thousands, hundreds of thousands of people who passed through Croatia were simply controlled and controlled. Some of the other things I've heard here today that Ranka Ostojić is putting on the line, all those who are a little more concerned with that system know it's not his authority. It's the power of the Supreme Court. It is not the Supreme Court under Ranko Ostojić's authority. So don't accuse a man of something he's not guilty of. And what you need to know is that Ranko Ostovic's election as president of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security will leave only a burden to you, a burden to fear control and to think in the repressive system of doing something that is not allowed. I don't think you have any reason to be afraid of it, and I think that the kind of responsibility you've taken today is I don't know what reason, I don't know why you absolutely don't need something, and without it, you simply could. Unfortunately, because of some of your decisions, you've already moved a single law, one single point in the law has the first protests on Mark's square. Why do you need this second hip opening, I really don't know. So, you've come to power, stop with one violent behavior. At this point, the Parliament was coming together completely different from the boredom. Negotiations have lasted a terrible long time, long before it all happened before, we all know it. Within 15 days everything was already known, everything was agreed in the package. You knew who the majority was, who the minority was. Unfortunately, this time a lot of things were unresolved, and maybe that's why there were some things that happened beyond those standards that we set. But believe me, people, in these 25 here are 26 years of Croatian state standards we built, there have been a lot of debates in this hall and bile and by the morning let's not tear them down. That's all I'm asking you to do. And I call on you to sit down once again, to agree on this because it is your responsibility and this weight and this burden not to elect the chairman of the Committee on Internal and National Security, which is actually a control mechanism only puts the burden on you that you do not want to control the repressive system and that you are thinking about doing something that is not in accordance with the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2363	Thank you. We've got two lines reported. I appeal again, please, to the dignity of the Parliament and your own, let us listen to everyone if we do not agree with him, but let us obey. The first came to the line by the distinguished representative Željko Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2364	Let's do key things and why no one is going to invest here. Because we're 66th on the corruption list, don't believe that Transparency International. How do they look on the outside? Singapore was a fishing village before the 1960s and today we are Bangladesh's EU together with Romania and Bulgaria. What are we discussing here? I'd like to know and the voters want to know. How much money was taken from Croatia between '14. And '16.? What about post-mortem affairs? That's where the dead were robbed. What about the money washed in the IRS? What about... What's going on here? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How can a normal country that predicates democracy, the free market and the rule of law have 40,000 companies without any employees? 40,000 companies! If they hired two people each, they'd have 80,000 employees. How much is FIMI MEDIA in Croatia? That's not what we're talking about. We're dealing with some peripheral stuff here. The answers to these questions are asked by voters, and until this is resolved, we will not have a legal state.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2365	Second Replicated representative Tomislav Koncevski.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2366	I agree with my colleague Opacic. Look, Ranko Ostojić is a Croatian defender. I don't think anyone appreciates that. I can't just be Croatian defenders on one side. A lot of us have been defending ourselves, and there are a lot of defenders who haven't declared themselves in any party. Why would someone deserve to defend this country from one option only? That was never clear to me. And Mr. Ranko Ostojic was Minister and I hope he will be Minister of the Interior again. I'm proud to say that because man really didn't have any crime in his life. I'm sorry to see patriotism on only one side. Now I'll tell you, it's the gentleman talking about the emigrants, my family's been evicted because she was on the wrong side for a while. My uncle was a Ustasha, and some of them had to get out of here. And I'm not looking, if there's talk of lustration, I'd like everyone to luxuriate here so let's see who's where and who's what and who's patriot and who's not patriot. And why would a man, I don't see why a man can't be board president? I don't understand it at all, and why are we discussing it? There's so much to discuss in this country, we've been here all day discussing whether Mr. Ostojic will be chairman of the board. My people are hungry and you're holding the Parliament's work just for the one man I'm proud of is who it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2367	Thank you very much. Next, the esteemed representative Branimir Glavas appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2368	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'll do a few sentences myself, try to be brief. Last time I said I'd be brief, I filled out all 10, 11 minutes, but I'm really gonna try to be brief. I'm here in the middle, and I don't belong to those left on my side who say they're right, or those right that say they're left but I belong to the opposition. As I said when voting and giving confidence to the prime minister that we trust the prime minister to agree on the team and start working, and what happens and how things develop will show time. Apparently, for the next three days, they have shown how this team is made from the hills of the valley, and as it is so unfortunately made, it is also rashed. But a few sentences on the concept of this topic. I think that law is perfectly clear, the law is quite clear that the president of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security is given the strongest opposition party and must be respected. We can rape the law and stick to Tito's "Don't stick to the law as a asked panel" obviously that this side of mine, the left-hand side of it, is being held exactly that way, but I don't think it's right, it's not right because this assembly is just practically starting to work. In these few days we have done the 2013 points, 2014, so we fill only the time to create the impression that we are working towards the public because here two weeks there is not one legislative proposal or any government regulation that should have come here on the table to bless it. This is, therefore, the problem of all problems and an indication of the failure of the Parliament to function, or generally, in these two weeks. I don't think there should be any dilemma. Mr Schucker has set several examples to transfer the ball to the opposite yard and place a sign of equality in relation to the formerly ruling majority in Parliament and the ruling minority, respectively, to the Assembly minority in the previous meeting. These cases are not comparable. They exist, but they are incomparable to this case. I'll only single out one in particular. He mentioned that during the term of office in 2001, Mr. Ivić Paslic, the vice-president of the Parliament, Mr. Racan, was replaced by another Ivica Racan. He was removed, I was then in the Parliament, but for the sake of the truth and for the sake of the public, I must say that it was not replaced by the will of the ruling majority then left under the leadership of Ivica Racan but by the initiative of the president of the then HDZ, Ivo Sanader and the HDZ leadership that initiated the shift of Ivic Pasalić while he seemed to be in Israel on the way. Therefore, it does not say that responsibility stands on this menu on the right side of the parliamentary minority, there is no responsibility on them, the initiative is on this side of the HDZ to change because then Mr. Ivić Pasalić was not a man perceived in the HDZ leadership as I will use a word similar to that of the so-called so-called. The reformed HDZ and sitting there as vice president of parliament, the HDZ, led by Ivo Sanader Mr. Seks and others, has already proposed that his duties be taken over by Dr. Ivica Kostovic. And then only the ruling majority carried out, complied with the will of the parliamentary minority and changed Parliament's vice president in the person of Mr. Ivic Pasalic. So it's true and it stands. I think there may have been some failure of the former ruling majority in the past term, which the HDZ opposition then interpreted in a different way. And they may have been wrong back then, but these cases and these cases cannot be compared to this case of election by the president of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. It is one of the most important committees that Parliament has, it is one of the only mechanisms that can control the secret services that have always played one significant role in these past twenty-five years and have directed certain political movements over the past quarter of the Croatian statehood, regardless of what Mr Tudjman wants to deny it now. It's a fact and probably in all countries and in all systems, that's how it works. If it works then it has to be well controlled. And no one can control this but an opposition, or from the opposition lines, the strongest political party to propose a qualified professional man who understands this job and who will not be the means of manipulating the ruling size of that committee. And that is why I think it is good for this law to be respected and to allow the strongest party in the opposition to propose its candidate and to respect it. This is important for the future of the Croatian state, it is also important for the ruling majority and the Croatian government to work in a way that respects the law, respects the Constitution and not bring any dilemmas and questions to whether something is under the law or something is done under the table or against the law and against the Constitution. And so I support this proposal regardless, the ruling majority will choose who they want because they have their hands unfortunately, but I appeal, think again, let this be taken off the agenda today, so next week the session in the Parliament's presidency, sit down on some inter-party agreement and try to re-analyze whether it's a good thing that you suggested today or whether it's a good thing that you persistently reject what the opposition is proposing. Perhaps Mr. Ostojić is not responding to the ruling majority, but here I will make a little joke and I belong to the opposition, so if he chose me, it would probably be a more dangerous solution for you to have me sitting on board. Do not take this as my candidacy or nomination, but be sure that Mr. Ostojić would have a professional who would, in accordance with the law, act responsibly in accordance with his morals and conscience, act as president of the Committee. Something else surprises me. We heard in this debate representatives of HDZ, representatives of the ruling Most bloc do not appear, they do not discuss, I am surprised and in those talks that preceded the assembly of the future Croatian government, representatives of the Most and the Most was very positive for the SDP, Mr Milanovic and Mr Ostojic, who personally participated in the talks and negotiations and you were one step ahead of the assembly of the joint government. So I would like to know why we do not now hear the words of criticism on the proposal on the table, i.e. the possibility that Mr. Ostojić is chairing this committee. That's what I'm very interested in. But it is your right, you have the majority, vote whatever you want, but for the benefit of the majority, for the benefit of the Croatian state and to facilitate the work of the Croatian government that you have drawn up from your parliamentary majority. Take this proposal off the agenda today, bring it back today to mature, sit at the negotiating table, the arguments on the table one side and the other, clear or state the reasons, Mr Ostojić cannot, therefore, do so. And stand behind your argument which is why you do not want to support the proposal that the strongest parliamentary party in the ranks of the opposition give its chairman of this Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. I think not so long ago in the last term the ruling majority then showed good will by not choosing the person you propose, so Mr. Tudjman is a man who has great experience in the work of intelligence services and was probably in the then part of the Croatian Assembly among the parliamentary minority the most professional and competent person because he worked in this system and knew him. And this right-hand side of me at the time, I was looking at it from a prison cell, and it didn't make any remarks either because he was doing that job in those services during the HDZ government or because he was the son of the first Croatian president. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2369	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He is the first to be respected representative of Davor Penic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2370	Thank you. My colleague Glavas has no doubt that the motives of the ruling political ones are. So they just want to increase their power. There is nothing of the reforms you mentioned in the MOST negotiations and the two coalitions. Our government has left independent media, they can talk and write about any politician without any censorship, the judiciary is more effective, all of which points to the fact that society is democratic. However, this today's attempt is to introduce a new democratic order, or democratic process where the ruling majority is trying to impose the name of the person who suits them in this process. That's the point.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2371	The honourable representative Branimir Glavas will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2372	So the ruling majority has the right to implement their programme, their vision, my concept I'm not getting into it, and I'm not challenging them. But in any case, if that is the reason and clearly that it is on us from the ranks of the opposition is the obligation and duty to oppose it by all means, by democratic means in the Croatian Parliament. So far, there have been cases of intelligence, either. And that this avoids at least one minimum percentage chance exists for the board to be a professional person from the ranks of opposition who knows the work and who will point out that there are not enough hands on the board to make a decision but with full legitimacy in this Croatian Parliament what happens in secret services if it happens. It needs to be stopped and disabled. Secret Service was also incorporated in my case during the HDZ exercise of power. But there will be an opportunity for me to talk about it, because eventually, the Supreme Court will have to send a motion to remove my immunity, so I will use my right to speak of some other things that will touch that area too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2373	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2374	You're calling your colleague Glavas on a deal. No deal, no deal can be made. The agreement can only be reached on our proposal. Everything else would be our giving up. We will never give up. We're not going to give up, because we're working legally. We will not give up because we care deeply about the things that you rightly pointed out in your speech at the beginning. This Committee oversees the secret services and the purpose of rejecting Ranko Ostojić is not an objection to Ranko Ostojić's work, they have no objection to him. They didn't even point out any objections, but it was a wish, a desire to stop parliamentary surveillance of the intelligence apparatus. So, a conscious desire to use that apparatus against me, against you, against the press, against the citizens. We need to make that clear. And I agree with you against it we must fight. We must warn the citizens that as of today, they will cast out terror not only of intelligence communities, but of HDZ, the HDZ, which rejects parliamentary oversight. Everyone has reason to be afraid, which is why I said with today's day terror is being introduced into this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2375	Before responding to the replica, I have already asked you not to use the word terror. The word terror today is something that is truly frightening and unfortunately ruled over a part of the world with fatal consequences. I'm aware of the difference in opinion, and I'm aware that I can use a variety of expressions, but let's stay away from some that don't match. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2376	Mr. President, there is also the possibility of democratic terrorism of the minority.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2377	He was looking for a colleague, so I'm sorry for the breach of the Rules of Procedure first. Which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2378	121, I think he's hurt. Don't tell me how I'm gonna argue here. You didn't choose me here, and I'm going to use the term terror while that terror is being carried out. Stop that terror and I'll break up with that expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2379	So, you've now re-exploited the breach of the Rules of Procedure because you invented the first number that occurred to you and said it as an excuse to say what you said. The next time you do, I'll give you a warning. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2380	I will only repeat what I said, that there are opportunities and democratic terrorism both for parliamentary minorities and for the public. I just want to replicate Mr. Stazic. There must be an agreement, there must be an agreement, no matter what the legislative and executive powers are separate. I call upon the Prime Minister to choose to arbitration. There's got to be a deal. If no agreement is reached, I fully support you, insist and insist on your candidate, so whoever does not want to accept it is responsible that this committee, the most significant committee, is practically not working in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2381	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the distinguished representative of Jaroslav Pecnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2382	Dear colleagues and colleagues, you say in HDZ why the opposition is angry, so no one gives her the right to choose the chairman of the board. Of course, but according to your rules. In other words, that right then there is no opposition. Why do you show muscles both in this House and in the public this way, I can assume. But one reason is for sure that arrogance is unbearable to which, in fact, it is so characteristic of your party. You don't like Mr. Ostojić. I think it's a man who's qualified and professional for this job first of all so that a little joke doesn't look like a real cop, so then it's certainly a person who can control it in a civilian way. You mean you don't like him, but I don't like you in HDZ either. But I need you to be who you are, and I don't have to accept you if I want to respect the procedure, the laws, the democratic standards and everything that actually belongs to a civilised society. Why don't you accept Mr. Ostojić like that? I can guess what the reasons are. Well, you don't care about the procedure, the law and the respect of the law. It is simply up to you to disable control, parliamentary control of secret services, so that you can pursue as you have done before all those insecure and incomparable with which you disagree, and how you end up sending a message to the public. So you're sending a message to the public as very recognizable as the one Mr Karamarko has been sending back two, three years to his whatever manifesto, by appointment of Ministers Montenegro and Karahasanbegovic as Culture Minister. Mr. Crnoya is not, there is no telling which moral norm he did not break, and probably also legally even though legal experts, who are legal experts, say he did not. Mr Karahasanbegovic wraps Croatian culture in black, announces a cultural revolution and that is all that suits you. So this play needs you just to show that your government isn't doing anything or very little, because we didn't get any suggestions on these constituency benches. And let the people have their fun, and we'll get caught on the hook in opposition, and we'll talk about it, and it'll all go as you wish. But it's a bad message and it doesn't lead to good.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2383	We have a replica of one distinguished representative of Ladislav Ilčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2384	Thank you, Mr. President. I must say, I'm fascinated that this House is easily drawn to bickering, so from all sides and that we are now discussing who doesn't like who and I don't know who's been doing what in the last 20 years. And I don't know now that you're insulting HDZ, you're making fun of Hasanbegovic's name. So, you go ad hominem, you don't go... I would really like to think and because of us and for the sake of the people watching us I wanted to hear the arguments and I heard some arguments on your part, I heard exactly two arguments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One is that you believe that it is contrary to the law and another that it is contrary to some kind of applicable procedure, or that in some way a democratic standard is being threatened. As far as this law is concerned, I must say that it is not as Mr. Glavas said that the opposition is appointed by this chairman of the committee of the Croatian Parliament responsible for national security, it is said that the MP from the ranks of the most representative opposition party, that is, as your colleague said, Sauch, that he was proposed by the opposition. So the word itself suggests that someone should accept it and suggest it most. So, I just logically think it's not true that the law is being broken here. I think if the law were broken, then there's some kind of competent body that would do it. The second thing, as far as the argument is concerned, that it's a violation of the democratic standard, given what Mr. Shucker said that you were already in the last term, I wasn't here, either, and you didn't want to accept a candidate for the board that the opposition proposed, I don't think that's precedent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2385	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, raised by distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2386	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament you have injured the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Pečnik insulted the Croatian government's minister at his nationality. And I think those who all the time advocate some kind of human rights should stand up for all the rights. What right do you have to call Minister Karahasambegovic? So you're attacking. He bothers you because he is a member of a Muslim or Bosniak people. That bothers you. And you colleagues who fight for everyone's rights fight for the right and colleagues of Hasanbegovic. Do you mind if someone says Karahasambegovic? You, Mrs. Pusic, just laugh, but that's how we protect the dignity of all people. None of us have the right to call someone dirty here. Mr. Hasanbegovic has his last name, honorably and honestly, which he inherited from his parents. The fact that he is a member of the Muslim people does not give you the right to insult him. An honest and honest young scientist. And that's why you colleagues and colleagues on this test have shown how unworthy you are. Now you've shown. And you, Mrs. Pusic, in particular, who advocates human rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2387	I agree that we should always take care, in any case, that we do not insult national, sexual, or any other feelings. The honourable representative Jaroslav Pecnik will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2388	First of all, I am a member of the national minority, Slovak, ethnic Slovak. Therefore, I would most certainly like to hurt any member of the national minority.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2389	Not an answer to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you need to answer to your colleague Ilcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2390	By the way, be, but for the sake of parliamentary deputies I must say I am not Mr. Pečnik, you have also offended me nationalally. So you put me in Slovenians, I'm not Slovenian, I'm Slovak. But well, it's on your soul. But to go back. So I answer to Mr. Ilcic. He also said I offended Mr. Hasanbegovic. I just wanted to metaphorically say what this man's up to in culture, and the word Karamarko, black stamp is now if we translate that bad, is that ugly? Well, it's not. But the black color in our tradition tells us that it's a bad thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2391	Comrade Pecnik, first of all, I ask you to stick to the Rules of Procedure, speak and respond to the replica you received, and I am especially warning you, as I warned you, and let us just stay away from any insults of individuals. Please!
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2392	I agree with you and accept your suggestion, just asking on what basis did I hurt Mr. Hasanbegovic on religious grounds? I don't really see it, but I'd like someone to tell me. By the way, I'm a religious teacher, and I teach at a religious college, it's amazing. But good. Therefore, what I want to say to Mr. Ilcic is not an insult but merely a metaphor to show where this government is headed. And Mr. Ostojić is just one part of that package and the program that you actually skillfully pack into some lame things so that we can stick together and talk here.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2393	At the same time, I direct you once again, you have now absolutely abused the Institute of Replications. Your colleague Ilcic said something to you. You absolutely didn't answer his question. Therefore, I ask you all for the dignity of this House to take care of your dignity. It is not the dignity of me alone, it is the dignity of you and the Croatian people. Because as we appear here, so does the Croatian people now view us through television. The next individual debate will be her distinguished colleague Darko Paric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2394	Thank you, Mr. President. The poet Antun Branko Simic wrote and said a wonderful verse that says: "Pets are a wonder in the world." With him thinking of poets in that verse all the best he could say. Unfortunately for the last few days, I have a feeling that we have a government that's a wonder in the world, and I don't mean what A meant. B. Simic wrote what he wrote. We've had a government for two weeks whose prime minister is somewhere hidden, doesn't come forward in anything we can't hear anything about. In two weeks we received a law in Parliament that was withdrawn faster than it arrived. In two weeks we had a minister who lasted shorter than a yogurt at the supermarket, and his duration was really fascinating. But okay, I accepted that the government is like that and I hoped it would be better, optimism forever. However, today I am saddened because it seems to me that we are also receiving a Parliament, or Parliament, which is a wonder in the world. Because today it is said somewhere that it is precedentd, this is not precedent, this is literally and directly an attempt to break the law by Parliament, which this same Parliament has brought in its own time. I, as far as I know about politics, the state and everything, should stick to the laws that have been passed and they previously convened in that same Parliament. It is particularly absurd that all of us 151 here have sworn that we will stick to the full constitution and law of the Republic of Croatia and this law which the parliamentary majority today does not want to adhere to. I guess I don't understand. When I took that oath, I stood up and truly open my heart and my sincere intentions said I swear. It seems to me that there were agents here who kept the fig in their pocket or I don't know behind their backs who didn't really mean it. They probably thought let me swear on something, something not so we'll see on the way it is. And today it seems to me that we've come to that on the way. However, from HDZ we are used to seeing everything before and before, and today and probably in the future and from HDZ, it is not surprising to me today. Previously on "Déjà vu"... And I think that many of my colleagues here today may have missed a little bit because they were all attacking HDZ in principle I think that HDZ is absolutely deaf to everything that we say today, that they have an attitude they're going to stand by and we're talking about, we're talking to the wall as we talked to the government here, remember 13 hours and its prime minister when we're giving our arguments what and how. They kept everything alive neatly silent. What fascinates me today and what's most important today is that 15 representatives of MOST who colleagues and colleagues in this case as well as in each have a control package for all of this or veto as they have called it. If they keep their voices completely on this subject today, or even better, which is almost gone in the assembly room. And I remind you you have a veto, you have a complete control package and a stock control package for absolutely everything. I remind you that when there was a campaign, when the negotiations were held, MOST was talking about reforms, democratic society, civil society, freedoms, projects, I don't know what not. Today, by silence, you give your hand to a potential direct blow to democracy. You give your hand to HDZ and the Patriot coalition, helping them in principle kill the existence of the law that this House has passed. Fifteen MOST deputies, just like me, are in the House for the first time, so it's hard to sing, but I don't have many years, but I'm relatively involved in politics, so I'll tell you one thing. In the life of politicians there are boring things, there are trivial things but sometimes there are times when a man has to make a decision and do something, when he has to have an attitude. There are times when a politician should have an attitude and show that he is something. When it comes to Most that moment is today, right here. Because you can be sure that the question of only these key moments in life if once, two, three times you make a rotten compromise, you're no longer a big politician with an attitude, but you're just a tiny calculator. On the other hand, I'm going to tell you one more thing, today an article on the polls and popularity among the citizens is that who is standing and the main title is that the popularity of MOST has fallen headlong. The popularity of MOST has fallen headlong for one reason because here they have been silent for two months. A bunch of things that are directly related to them, and they have what's called veto, and the veto is not invested in any way but in heroic silence. If you continue to remain silent for the next few months, you will no longer measure popularity in percentages rather than in differences, and that is your problem again. What I regret to say is that today you colleagues and colleagues, especially colleagues and colleagues from MOST, have a very simple choice. In front of you is option A in which you only have to keep your oaths and obey the law of this country, this home, and as a colleague of the State, Steve Culej, said, for which he fought only that, nothing more. If you stick to that law absolutely no one in this world can object to you. You remain consistent, you remain moral, and you remain what you claim to be, I hope so. On the other hand, if you resort to this blow to democracy and this to say it to try to bend the law precisely from those who pass the laws, you will be a fig tree to HDZ, as I said on a direct blow to democracy, to disrespect the laws we have passed. So I'm going slowly to the end. I don't want to, I don't think I can, and I don't think anyone here can convince HDZ to start thinking differently. We learned from them and saw and it's all clear. Comrades and colleagues from MOST good day to you, you are in Parliament to start acting like this and know that for you today is the moment when you need to show credibility. It means if you're what you claim to be or if you're something else entirely. I get warm, naive, honest, human hope that today you will very loudly remain silent for a few hours and show your credibility and show that it is very simple to respect the law and nothing more than that. It's totally simple, the decision is to say trivial. Or if you don't do it unfortunately I'm afraid not to be a journalist Ante Tomic in the end right when he wrote his column describing your party president or whatever he said at the end, Mom, Dad, I admit HDZ is. So it is up to you today to decide, to get out of the closet, to admit what you need to admit or to be credible and to be what you've assured us for months now that you have and unfortunately we haven't been able to get a chance to make sure of that for months. And I remind you that this transfer of our Parliament is being watched by citizens, the same citizens are creating those polls that you're saying you crashed. And here I am, in the interest of a good colleague who cares for both yours and our ratings, asking you to think about it and watch your credibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2395	I don't know what time I'm going to say something, but obviously I'm going to have to start doing it and that's to stick to the subject. The topic is if I can remind you of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs and Proposal. What you're saying has nothing to do with it, it has to do with convincing colleagues from MOST, etc., etc. And since it has become now I see an inappropriate practice that has begun to take more and more into account I will become extremely restrictive and I will interrupt anyone who really strays from talking about topics that are not related to it, from any party. Because it doesn't make sense, it really doesn't make sense. We are moving away from the topic that is important and that needs to be discussed and we are talking about everything and everything else. The violation of the Rules of Procedure was raised by a respected representative of Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2396	Dear Mr. President, in his 10-minute debate, he spent 10 minutes on insulting the Rules of Procedure, Article 238, because, with his own admission, he did not understand certain things, and then quoting our significant poets to give additional arguments to his debate had one pre-election program that came 2 months or 3 after the election campaign. He's been telling his colleagues from one of the parliamentary parties and he hasn't devoted his speech to the subject, I think he's worth it on your part even though you warned at least a warning because this really doesn't lead anywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2397	Thank you very much. I think I said what I should have said. We'd go to the replicas and they'd be numerous. The first came the honorary representative Bozo Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2398	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. In fact, what was the incentive to report for the replica you said in some way in your criticism of the performance of the distinguished representative and I just wanted to say that the elections were over, you know who was the winner of the election, you know who formed the government. And I have indeed given myself the task of trying to keep myself from participating in these discussions that have ideological charges or divisions here in Croatia and myself for a mission fundamentally to create a consensus here in the Parliament between the authorities and the opposition in relation to the Croatian issue in Bosnia and Herzegovina, aware that here at the threshold of this country, in the belly of this country, is taking away political subjectivity from one nation and which is the primary strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia. However, here, when he has already come forward and also in relation to this debate of the honourable representative, I would like to say, the parliamentary majority has formed a government, but the government has been fighting a special war since the first day of the debate, through the mobilization of various associations, through the media that so-called. independent, which even public media seems to be trying to prevent this government and this parliamentary majority from taking over and ruling here in Croatia. I think that in the situation of the spiral of the bewitched circle of public debt growth, the exodus of the population of the economic, demographic collapse has far more important issues here in Croatia that this Parliament needs to discuss than the issue of ideological omens as they have been here all the time on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2399	Thank you. The next debate is the distinguished representative of Ladislav Ilčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2400	Dear Mr. Paric, so I won't repeat myself in view of what the president said, I'm just sorry you didn't answer what I asked earlier. So, in terms of some kind of argument. So I found out that the law didn't say that the opposition called it, but that it proposed it. Well, I'd love to, you said, you devoted the second minute of your debate, you touched the subject, here's how we don't follow the law, but you didn't answer what I said. So since it does not appoint but proposes and the ruling coalition, that is, the ruling majority in the Parliament, is deciding you have to explain to me what a violation of the law is. I'm not saying 100% that I'm sure. Here's your help, so please explain it to me, and to the other four speakers that have been reported for the debate I personally appeal, of course you don't have to listen to me, you have the right and the other way. But I'm appealing that we're really having an argument. So, you can repeat the same arguments that others have already said and Mr. Saucha initially said those arguments to say once again or in a more generous way in another poetic way. But here, in the sense of reasoned debate, I would ask that there are four other speakers to make exactly the same targeted argument. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2401	The honourable representative Darko Paric will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2402	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague, how you're a professor and I'm an electrical engineering engineer, it's hard to talk about the law in the right way. But here are my colleagues who gave me a law saying: "The work of the Board of the Croatian Parliament responsible for national security is chaired by a representative from the ranks of the most representative opposition party." Crystal clear and clear. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2403	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2404	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, President of the Parliament. I didn't mean to pick up because I'm listening to you on the one hand and the other as you say the fig leaf or the HDZ, that MOST, I'm speaking for myself now in my personal name a replica or an SDP. And indeed, I don't know if the people are watching this has anything to hear from one side that led the country back four years or those before, about your statements that have absolutely nothing to do with the subject and the person that was proposed. As far as we're concerned, they could have voted right away on this problem and moved on. So, we don't have any problem with that matter of saying our position, and we're going to say it by voting. We'll tell him by voting. Maybe he wants to answer to you or vice versa. MOST has its own attitude, but it's as symptomatic to me as you follow us, as much as you want us to fall or grow in the polls. You know why MOST showed up? Because of your country management you were the first time in the House, but you were an assistant minister. I have much more important results of yours to talk about and that these topics are being opened and to help this government through the reform agreements signed and the "Croatian Growth" coalition in full. And that's when we said, so we have to race to Ban Jelačić Square. ... It'd be a race, everyone would race just to stay in power. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On one side or on the other, I'm telling you, on the left hand side and on the right hand side. So don't worry about our ratings. We are created from local units with problems that people have from communal, social from bases and don't be afraid, we will, if we need to have another debate like this in Parliament, no one will sit here at all in the Most Council but we'll go to the field and explain to people what you're talking about, what your interest is. You're interested in being looked at now by the public and you're raising yourself, because you're something brave, you heroically kicked and told. You know when to be a hero, you shouldn't. However, this listens from you on one side or the other or that MOST is a fig leaf. It's just an insult or an insult on someone to give some adjectives the disgrace of a minister or an ex or present one. I'm ashamed to listen to you on one side or the other, on either side. I'm looking at you now because I'm giving you a replica. That's embarrassing. Do you feel ashamed? Or that it's an obstruction of the public with nonessential subjects that's your business, and I will personally vote as I have decided, and so will the Most. And don't you worry about our ratings. You take care of your ratings. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] It's not easy for you to lose... or [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2405	Thank you, dear fellow Bull. You have broken a lot of time, and the next replica is the esteemed representative of Željko Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2406	This is a purely human question, I agree. I don't know why we don't have the right to ask ourselves, that's where a man is proposed for a high position in the Parliament. Why can't we ask the former Ministry of Interior some questions, for example, as how much EU funds for the MUP have been available and how much has been withdrawn from it. That's the key questions. The second question, interested Croatian defenders, is why Mr. Marko Frančeščević, Croatian defender in Vrapec, was imprisoned in one institution where he received treatments that look more like the Soviet Union than the current Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2407	Comrade Glasnović, we said we'd talk about the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2408	It's a theme one, it's a key topic for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2409	No, it's not really a theme. Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2410	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, I assume you come from the 10th constituency if I'm not mistaken, you were there on the election list and you took me think place Mr. Jurjevic, he was sitting there last term. I've recently read his interview in Free Dalmatia and he's making a very difficult claim. He says such a big title SDP is very sick, there's a brother-killing war going on. Then they started qualifications on poodles and all the others. And I have a feeling that you want to transfer that to this Croatian society, to all citizens and not to the new government, or to this Parliament to somehow move away from these ideological topics on which only you can actually do something. That's why you like to quote a little one. One little quote or one verse. Here's the Split group TBF positive attitude: "Positivity attitude don't be minus, stay healthy, don't collect the virus." I think it's such a way of showing you to be positive between you, to get out of this process, to be the right left of Croatia, to try to get away from that beginning of yours and to really be constructive and to determine your identity as to what you want to be. No, but they've given themselves the role of doing something on the other side, even talking about the ratings of the Honorable President. [[Adversity President: These health advices are not exactly on the subject of tightness.]] They take care of everyone, and they have the biggest problems between them. That's why I wanted to be positive and give them some advice. But stop burdening society with these topics that you're starting with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2411	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Darko Paric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2412	Thank you. After you criticized me that I hadn't hit the subject and that I absolutely missed everything, I kept it quiet, of course, although I am deeply convinced that I absolutely hit the subject just talking in metaphors. After that comes a large series of replicas that seem to have perfectly understood everything I said and that I hit the point in the whole story. And I would ask you to continue that all other replicas that have absolutely nothing to do with my metaphorical exposure are interrupted in the same way that you warned me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2413	I'm a fellow Paric as you've seen me do. And the next time you go out in the field with the chairman, you'll get a warning because it's in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Well, you might want to read the Rules of Procedure so you can see that I'm right. The following came to the line, distinguished representative Miroslav Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2414	I would ask my colleague, Paric, and the other MPs, to really in their presentations to stick to the topic. I think that with this kind of debate, we're bothering the Croatian public and we're not doing any good. If you thought with this five-minute presentation about the Most, you could talk us into or something like what the president had already warned you could only talk us out of something with your arguments. And if your colleagues continue to debate this way we will really have to think very carefully about how we should generally vote in this Croatian Assembly. Please give up pushing and answering the Most. We know very well how we behave here, we keep to our credibility. And as for the poll, be concerned about the SDP, leave the Most.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2415	The next individual debate will be distinguished representatives of Sabine Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2416	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it's just that someone told me that after 16 years of parliamentary democracy in this House, the highest legislative body, I would say it's not possible. Today, however, we see that for everything there is for the first time and that in Croatia it is very possible in the highest legislative body in which laws are passed to pollomise with the laws that this same body has passed. As my colleagues and colleagues have already said in previous discussions, paragraph 5, i.e. Article 105(4), is clear. The representative of the main opposition party shall chair the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. The law does not say that the main opposition party is proposing a candidate for the presidency but taxingly states that the committee is chaired by a representative of the strongest opposition party. It's SDP. Following SDP law, together with its coalition partners, he proposed the chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, Mr Ranko Ostojic. He did so for reasons he believes that Ranko Ostojic is the best quality and most professional fit for being president of the same-named committee. And even if he hadn't done anything else in his term as Minister of the Interior, if only he had successfully managed the crisis we had a few months ago and we're still facing it, with a refugee crisis, that would have been enough reason for us to be talking about the top professionality, expertise and responsibility of this man. Thanks to him, his closest associates, the entire police, the military, medical teams, and volunteers, pictures of our country went around the world. Without false modesty, I think we can say that we have become an example of the more advanced, richer, politically more powerful and much larger countries because our country of Croatia has shown that it is able to deal with the most sensitive crisis situations in which thousands of unfortunate human fates depend on us. We will remain remembered as a country, a small country of great heart with a strong sense of dignity for every man in whom humanity, reason and solidarity prevailed. And let us not forget that in this and perhaps the most difficult moments for the Republic of Croatia in the last 4 years, many opposition politicians warned that Croatia was threatening to threaten its national security. That's what some of your colleagues warned you about. Well, if so, then we can say that this is another additional argument for Ranko Ostojic to be the chairman of the Committee on National Security because if national security was threatened as you warned then Ranko Ostojic, along with the then prime minister and with the whole team, to make cold head decisions and resisting internal and external pressures, contributed to protecting national security but on the other hand to send Croatia to the world a picture of a modern, tolerated and responsible country. And our proposal was in line with the procedure before the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. But there it happened that seven MPs and representative Franjo Lucic, Blaženko Boban, Pero Čorić, Ivica Misic, Angelko Stričak, Ivan Šipić and Ružica Vukovac said no to Ranko Ostojić without an explanation. And that's why we've been discussing this issue for an hour and a half today for two hours, although we've practically voted almost all the committees that were like proposals on today's agenda. I'm not surprised by the HZD that he said no to Ranko Ostojić. As Mr. Culej said, I think it was very credible and very close to an explanation why Ranko Ostojic should not be the chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security when he said that Ranko Ostojic was unsuitable. And I think that's the most convincing argument we've heard all day today why the members of the Committee on Elections and Designs and Administrative Affairs said no to Ranko Ostojić. However, I sincerely hope that today's debate will not end the attempt to put this committee in place. I believe that reason will prevail, and I believe that it will take some extra time for things to be discussed again because we will not and have no reason to simply give up. It is very clear that the HDZ today had a plan to obstruct the work of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security indirectly, because we know that the election of the President of the Croatian Parliament is just being established by the Parliament and the Parliament can begin work. Equally with the failure to choose what is being done today, the election of the president of the Committee on National Security and Internal Policy will not be able to form a committee that guarantees parliamentary oversight of secret services. It's sad if this is HDZ's intention. I sincerely hope that this scenario will be avoided which would be a disaster for Croatia and in this particular hope I take on the representatives of the Most, I don't want to urge anyone, I don't want to appeal to anyone, but I believe those people when they said a few weeks ago that Croatia needs stronger civil oversight of secret services and I really don't see any reason not to support the establishment and functioning of parliamentary oversight of secret services in the Republic of Croatia. I sincerely hope, once again, that the HZD will give up this policy by refusing our candidate for president to make it impossible for this committee to be formed and thus prevent the Republic of Croatia from having a control parliamentary law guaranteed to oversee the work of security services in the Republic of Croatia. If there is anything we need to do in this House, then it is to overcome some political interests, work in the interests of the Republic of Croatia, and I think that the security service system if it is not a national issue in the interests of the Republic of Croatia, all that laws prescribe and its control mechanisms, then I really don't know what else it is. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2417	Thank you. We have three replicas. The first is the esteemed Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2418	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, the first part should be directed to you that you did not warn an esteemed representative not to adhere to the Constitution, that it is insulting the Constitution and the provisions set out in the Constitution because it has said that there is a 16-year parliamentary democracy here. Thus, it is contrary to all the values on which the Croatian state rests because a democratic state formed with the first multilateral assembly of the 90th year. On the other hand, this manipulation of this in two ways is argued that HDZ or this party does not agree to comply with the law and is not agreed to discuss the competence of the proposed candidate. I would have been quite, I would have accepted your proposal where it would have been said on the board that it was not explained why most did not accept the proposal, although I must say the same from the experience of this committee's parliamentary work when I asked most of why the vote was then Mr Stazic told you that we do not have to explain our criteria, why we vote for a decision that was on the agenda. So if you had said well we were asking for it to come back to the board, if all the arguments were made on the board, then we would have decided or agreed or disagreed, then it would have been one rational approach, so it's simply a dissipation of ideology. On the other hand, the the thesis that the basic task of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security is to monitor the legal, reporting system simply degrades the role of the Committee on National Security because the task of the Committee on National Security is far greater but, unfortunately, this left option has no knowledge, no ability, no will to deal with such... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2419	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ladislav Ilčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2420	It's just one more correction. Mrs. Glasovac, you said that the chairman of the committee was the representative of the strongest opposition break, and I will repeat the committee's chairmanship by the MP from the ranks of the most representative opposition party. So that difference means it's not a representative in the sense that you choose the person who represents you because then it would really be a violation. However, when we speak to an MP, I am clearly thinking logically now, if we as the ruling would refuse all members of the SDP then I would completely agree with you that this is a violation of that law. So long as there's an SDP representative who can lead, who we would support for so long it's not a violation of the law. So, I'm just making sense right now. So we did not prevent an SDP representative from leading this committee, so because of the opinion of some of our members who are better understood in this topic that Mr Ostojic has made some disqualifying mistakes in this area, we believe that he does not meet the same conditions that are set out in the regulation that this committee should be doing. And that's our reason. Of course, I think we're clear to the public, you're now insisting that it be Mr. Ranko Ostojić, the ruling majority thinks it wouldn't be him, but I don't think we can talk about breaking the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2421	The distinguished representative Sabina Vosovac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2422	Thank you, Mr. President. Here I apologize to my colleague Ilčić, I made a lapus linguae when I said the word representative instead, I was also too late to respond to Mr. Tudjman's replica, also because of the second lapus linguae in which he was absolutely right. Mr. Ilcicu, I would like to answer to you for part of your thesis that you do not mind that the opposition has its own representative as board leader, however, that this should not be a colleague of Ranko Ostojic for you. Well, look, you're not in a position either of you or HDZ to deal with human rights issues within the SDP or within our coalition. I understand the HDZ's interest in getting involved within the SDP party elections, that there are also favorites that might be more appropriate to him, as well as to some SDP candidates who would be more suited to him at the position of the chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, but unfortunately for that I must tell you but the passport does not pass. We have every right to propose our candidates, the people we think are the most professional and to best conduct certain duties, that is, in this case, Mr. Ranko Ostojić. What do you know, maybe all our other colleagues and fellow MPs have refused to take that role. So you can't go inside the party stuff of certain parties, clubs or coalitions. We're not doing this to you, please don't do this to us either.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2423	The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Šipic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2424	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I didn't mean to answer for this colleague's hearing. Here I am one of those who was on that board, I am Ivan Šipic with my colleagues. So I have no intention of being here neither, save God nor pollemize nor justify. But here's because you and your co-worker are in some weirdness all the time, you're causing a surprise and you're quoting that, that poets are a wonder in the world and I understand the message well, I have to say that as far as our citizens are surprised to hear this all day today and as they marvel at this whole thing, I beg you, I beg you, I will finish, not for two minutes, be sure. So I would ask one question like this, why is there even a committee of appointments, choices, appointments and administrative jobs? What is the name of the people in it? What are these people sitting there for? Which is why if I apologize, if you say so, and you take double standards like this, and a whole series of examples from a constitutive session where a colleague says 13 hours would take her to this day for you to run as she was led. So we didn't stick to certain subjects. So, I'll be real, so if you keep going like this, disgusted as the whole public because I'm just gonna tell you, neither did the president of my party call me, nor did anyone call me to wake up at 7:00 this morning and say, listen, you have to do this today, so no pressure or I had an order from anyone. I'm talking about it now as a member of the board and here's a colleague who was there, we haven't discussed it much at all. If we already have democracy then take the right to me, that I who is here for the first time am like you and some of you colleagues here so that I can take my right to be against something today. So let's take, let's not take double standards, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2425	Thank you very much. The distinguished representative Sabina Vosovac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2426	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Shimic, I think that in your replica, you have mostly responded to my colleague Paric rather than to my debate. I have only reported in some way what has been reported in this Report of the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs, which clearly writes 7 votes against, 4 for. But I didn't least label you in any way, clearly you have the full right to express your opinion, either here verbally, or by voting. Just as our representatives respected the right of the Most, so they voted for you to be a member of the Committee on Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs and some of your other colleagues proposed by the Most for members of individual committees, we did not question your legitimacy of proposing which members you would propose on board. That's all I was talking about, which is why someone is questioning our party's legitimacy to propose that our members be presidents, vice presidents and members of individual committees when we don't do it to anyone else or to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2427	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the honorable representative of Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2428	Thank you, Mr. President. Since you have announced a more restrictive policy of assessing whether someone is sticking to the topic, and since my assessment of my colleague Paric was deep in the topic, I will try to explain why I think he hit the topic, and so am I, so I hope you won't interrupt me. So, we are voting on a proposal from the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs to elect Mr Predrag Matic as a member of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. That's what this is all about. It's this report. In paragraph 4, the report’s arguments reads: “In accordance with the provisions of Article 46(3). The Rules of Procedure of SDP, HNS, HSU, Labourist, National Minority, IDS by letter of the class, proposed to elect Mr. Ranko Ostojić as chairman and as member of the representative Predrag Matic." The passport below also reads: "The Committee for Elections, Appoints, Administrative Affairs at the second session discussed the proposals, and with 7 votes against and 4 votes in favour of not supporting the proposal to elect representative Ranko Ostojic as chairman of the panel." The debate on what were the motives of MPs and political parties to vote like that is absolutely the topic of this debate, and therefore Mr. Paric's debate was absolutely on the agenda. And it is legitimate to question the motives of colleagues from the Patriot coalition and colleagues from the Most who were on the board and voted against. Why did they vote against it? As on the other hand, it is legitimate to question the SDP, HNS, and so on. Why exactly did we propose Mr. Ranko Ostojic to be president of the Committee. Therefore, I consider Mr. President that counterpart Paric was completely in the topic and that this is a legitimate debate to be discussed. As far as the position of the representatives of the Most Independent Lists on Rank Ostojić is concerned, I have no intention of speaking about it, but they will not be able to present it today because it is not Ostojić's vote, but Matic, as far as I understand the Rules of Procedure. Because our proposal for a representative to choose Ranko Ostojić is not yet on the agenda. So, we are just waiting for a debate on Ranko Stojić as such on the proposal of a number of opposition representatives if there is no... So, I did not see that the motioner was even invited by the opposition promoter to explain the proposal. [[You can't hear it.]] So, Mr. Lucic explained the proposal, but it doesn't matter. If there's a vote on Ostojic, I'll have a chance to express my position and that's okay. Okay. Now let's talk about motives. So the first question is this. The Croatian Parliament is the most representative body in the state, but it is not the only one. Similar provisions on the representation of the opposition in the working bodies have both the County Assembly and the City Assembly of Zagreb and the City and Municipal Councils. There are over 500 of them, but always a minority in the representative body could say this is our proposal, so you see how it works in the Parliament, they agree the same. Now this argument will no longer be useful, and the Croatian Parliament, which is the problem of the President of the Croatian Parliament, will, according to its democratic standards, be below most representative bodies of local self-government and regional self-government, and this is the first or second step in destroying the reputation of the Croatian Parliament because of this parliamentary practice. And it's your legitimate right, and it's our legitimate right to say it. The relationship between the position and the opposition is the foundation, that is, parliamentaryism, and that is, the minority, and we must decide, that is, you must primarily be responsible for the majority to decide what kind of relationship it will be. So whether the parliamentary majority will assess the similarity or incomparability of the candidate proposed by the opposition each time. In your opinion, you have absolutely legitimate right. Every time a proposal comes from a minority, the parliamentary majority will determine whether it will be this or whether it will be that. Now I have to admit that I'm a little sad that Mr Ostojić got the advantage when he's unsuitable, and I'm decent because they unanimously voted for me for some parliamentary bodies and other government colleagues. Even Mr Ostojić is like being a member of the Committee on Family, Youth and, so I think he can do more harm as a family, youth and sport than internal policy and national security. So why'd you back him up there? And not just that. Look, I've got another problem. You give him an advantage within the party elections because your victim turns out to be, and now how are we going to fight him in the inside of a party election? It's an additional problem in this story. So don't help us like that anymore, you're just helping him. And now I wonder what I have to do to become unsuitable? Tell me, I give you my word of honor that I will study diligently and work to do so, so that I can help myself a little bit, not in this way. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen. About Ostaic? [[You called me when I said I'd be more restrictive. Now what you're saying has nothing to do with the subject.]] All right, then I'll finish. [[/The incursion president: No, no.]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, I call on you to choose Predrag Matic in the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and to choose Rank Stojić as chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, because everything he has done in his work, and I know him for a long time tells him that he will be a good board president even though he will be there in the minority. But that's why we have the majority to control it, because as some say in the debate, don't make a register of similar and inappropriate in SDP because when you're doing a register I really don't know which one of those two would rather be. In fact, I know which one he'd be in, where Ranko is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2429	We have two replicas. It is the first to be respected representative of Zeljko Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2430	Your Honor, this is no ordinary choice of candidates for this high position. Because if you listen to me, we are looking for an answer to a fundamental question on what democracy is founded on. This is the question, can a state official use a state-owned institution to deal privately with individuals, e.g. Sparrow, that's the key question. And can he be elected to this position?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2431	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Blaženko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2432	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Bauk, in one part of your presentation, you said that today's act, the Croatian Parliament shows that unfortunately to local administrations and work within local administrations, this is a weak path. I have to tell you I've been coming from the local administration and for many years now, this is a weak path, an example of this here that happens with such debates that really have no purpose. But I'm going to tell you both this and your irony here in your presentation you also show these local administrations how one representative behaves on the largest legislative body of the Republic of Croatia through his irony and related to the internal elections within your party.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2433	The Honorable Representative Arsen Bauk will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2434	Speaking of citizens and whose style and performance of price, so did mine, we were all now and individually in the elections, as far as Ranko Ostojić is concerned, well rated. 23 066 votes were received by Ranko Ostojić from citizens in the parliamentary elections preferentially and out of 59 MPs of the Patriot coalition, they received more than 2 from him and Damir Krsticevic and Miroslav Tudjman. Therefore, I think that here they would have legitimate rights and all those who have more days of the fighting sector than him to be against, and the others I think we should listen to the citizens and vote for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2435	The next speaker will be the esteemed representative of Tihomir Jakovina, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2436	I thank the esteemed president, colleagues and colleagues. As regards today's topic, this morning when I heard that the Board of Elections had actually made this decision, I thought it was a mistake or a failure, that the Council for the Co-operation of the Patriot Coalition and the Most, which works for 24 hours, had simply made a failure, except for the selection of assistants, deputies and directors of the agency and had chosen or made a proposal for the chairman of this committee. Today in the debate I listen carefully so I see that it is not a mistake, I hope, and I sincerely hope that it is not in fact the beginning of some strange reforms that do not only violate good democratic practices and high standards of democracy that apply to this House but are much worse broken by the law. This is the first time I've heard of the Parliament majority taking responsibility to work against the law. No committee shall be appointed in such a way as to specify the legal provisions of this committee. My colleagues have already mentioned, quoted the law, and I will not read it again. I will only mention that it was the law of July 2006, the law that was passed in this House, the President of the House was Mr. Seks who since yesterday was not so in favor of the right hand side of the majority who was on that side of the assembly with the right because the only way to fully control or control this High House civil sector over the work of the security-intelligence system was actually through good law. I've been listening very closely to this debate and I agree with a lot of things I've heard, especially the distinguished Dr. A stranger when he said we should have a rational relationship. Four years ago, this foreign assembly had much more hands and much larger and more generous majority, no question at all about Mr. Tudjman's election as chairman of this committee. Once again, I note, not only high democratic standards, not only democratic practices but laws. At no time, and there was likely dissatisfaction with such a proposal by the opposition was questioned by the fact that we are working against the law, that this part of the assembly is working against the law and that we do not choose a quality opposition proposal. Or maybe you're telling us now that you're going to raise new, more democratic standards so that you're going to say ok we want to show muscle strength on the right, we want to show most of what we have, we want to have a proposal for the chairman of that committee, but then we're going to give the opposition to choose actually the director of the security intelligence system. Maybe that's the higher standard. And if that's what it is, I congratulate you on that. But unfortunately, that's not it. You want complete control, you want a system that will not be controlled in the right and quality way by this House, by parliamentary representatives and by people who have given us confidence to represent their interests in this House. I will return to this debate, what I cannot agree to and what offends me, and what I will always raise my voice against it is also the pride and boast and triumphism of some of you in this debate and in the replicas, especially humiliation, personal attacks as colleagues of Ostojić but also colleagues of Jovanovic you call without argument, without knowledge or maliciously that he was not a Croatian volunteer, that he was not a '91. where he was supposed to be. With what right can any of you, with honorary exceptions here, question my patriotism, question my participation in the Homeland War, my volunteer status or some of these colleagues who are here? I remind you that the Government of Zoran Milanovic, we ministers who were in that government, had twice as many fighting days as any Croatian government had before. But aside, it's not that important, but I won't let you use the Assembly pay phone to discredit and attack both us personally and as Croatian defenders. There is no division there, at least you are declaring that you are not for sharing among Croatian defenders. I won't let her. I will not waste my words and will not speak or glorify Rankov's contribution as Home Secretary and Deputy Prime Minister in the last four years. Not much should be said about how he worked as a parliamentary representative before that, in the end he was also the chairman of this committee before he was a minister in the government. Just one segment, look at it in a year, and it's a refugee crisis that's caused a lot of bile, a lot of attacks that we can attach to a pre-campion or an election campaign on the threat of our national system, about the poor work of the Ministry of the Interior, about unpreparedness, about the problem and the refugee crisis. The Republic of Croatia has shown itself in the best possible light, in the most humane way all reception issues, the transportation of these unfortunate people who went to Western Europe. About the project of the winter transit centre in Slavonski Brod, about all the praises of the profession not only of ours, but of the European professions I will not spend the words showing the field itself, but what I care about as both Brojan and as a Slavonca and as a member of this Assembly that the only change that has happened since Ranko led the whole project impeccably and this winter reception centre where these people have been coming, were registered and in a few hours continued their way towards the countries of Western Europe is that more valuable people working in this camp, meaning people who are on public works but also a large number of volunteers no longer have warm meals, no longer have the conditions of work as he had until 2, 3 weeks ago while Ranko ran that centre. About the number of refugees, about the number of people passing through the Republic of Croatia, we had daily reports on the website of the MUP no longer exist. What's my question? Why is that gone? Why about 250 people who work hard at that center, who without even the slightest problem, without the slightest stain, without anything functioning in Slavonia, have lost the ability to have a warm meal and have normal working conditions while doing a very responsible and quality job for all of us, not just for my city but for all of us. Gentlemen, you have the majority, you have the government, you have the responsibility. Your responsibility is to manage and take responsibility for this country. This way by breaking the law, you're going the wrong way, you're not doing a good job. Infringements of democratic practice and high democratic standards in the formation of committees and the rest were here before, some committees that were traditionally and throughout history with opposition presidents are no longer. But this is something regulated by law, you don't have the right to choose here, you don't have the right to triumphism, pride and pride, we have most of us can do what we want. You're right, but take responsibility. Take over all of you who are giving the majority, who will be against the appointment of colleague Ostojić as chairman of this committee, have the responsibility to break Croatian law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2437	Thank you very much. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2438	Your Honor, Mr. President, I was the one who was injuring the Rules of Procedure during the replica of my colleague Glasnovic. Article 238.i of the Rules of Procedure has been injured regarding the misbehavior of MPs. I might ask you, Mr. President, to ask Mr. Glasnovic to take his hands out of his pocket as he speaks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2439	Thank you very much. It could hardly be characterized as a breach of the Rules of Procedure but well. Now I would like to give my word to the respected vice president of Mrs. Vesni Pusic's home, who will have the final five minutes on behalf of the HNS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2440	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, I think that after this long and painful but yet important debate, sometimes it seems to be an irrelevant topic, but it is the establishment of some basic rules that will rule for the next four years and that is why I think it's important. I think we still have a chance to find a way to agree on this proposal and support my colleague Ostojić as chairman of the Committee on National Security, Internal Policy and National Security. So, what I was about to say concerns the law and the fact that many colleagues questioned whether it was or not legal. The law of truth says it is necessary for the head of this committee to be the person from the main opposition party. He doesn't say by saying that, then everyone has to vote for that person, but by law, there's a spirit of law with every law, the intensity that the law wanted to achieve. The spirit of the law is not my license of poetry that is Montesquieu, it is simply one of the fathers of the modern state defined the spirit of the law in order to know what the law wants to achieve. Therefore, the law aims to achieve that in this one case, it can allow the largest opposition party to be led by bodies which, of course, not only but, among other things, control the intelligence community and the intelligence community's affairs. And the second is why Ranko Ostojić. In the first row, Ranko Ostojic was a great minister, which may not be relevant to you, but the opinion of European Commission Commissioner Avramopoulos on this particular subject, the opinion of the European institutions which have recognised him with the list for his work. Secondly, Ranko Ostojić knows the subject. It's pointless for a genius from the biggest opposition party to be at the head of this committee if he doesn't know the subject. I certainly agree in very few things with my colleague Tudjman, but he certainly knows the subject. And that's why it was logical in the last session that someone who knew the subject of the opposition would be in that place. In the end line and when HDZ was in power in the previous term, it supported the same Rank Ostojic as the chairman of the board in the previous term, and he was doing the job with dignity, honor and no difficulty. So I don't see what the problem at this point is that someone who knows the subject, because if they don't know the subject, they won't even be able to function as someone who knows the subject, who is internationally rated as an excellent minister, is not at the head of the committee for which it is intended. So I appeal to everyone to think about it one more time and make this situation easier and choose Ranko Ostojić. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2441	Thank you very much. Now, I received Article 272(3) today. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of the SDP Club of Representatives, 15 MPs, according to this article, who propose appointment as chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Ranko Ostojić, a representative in the Croatian Parliament. I'll put that proposal on the agenda and then we'll discuss it the first time I'm on the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2442	Mr. President, we have, in accordance with Article 272 of this proposal, given this proposal on behalf of a group of MPs that is greater than 15 MPs because we have the right to propose the same thing as the Selection Committee. If you don't want to put it to the vote today, then we demand that it be put on the agenda today. At the end of the vote to include it in the agenda [[Intruder: 272.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2443	Comrade Zgrebec, you are certainly well aware of the Rules of Procedure as Vice-President of the Assembly, so I have said this moment, I will put it on the agenda following Article 224 in the draft agenda of the President of the Parliament to bring in all the topics and acts which have been submitted in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure within 30 days of receipt. So I'll do it and then we'll discuss it and vote. ... Here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2444	This isn't about such an act being included in the agenda. This is about Article 272 which says: "The election, appointment and resolution of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the working bodies of the Assembly shall be carried out on a proposal from the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs or on a proposal from at least 15 MPs.". It is a proposal that is the same as the proposal of the Committee on Selection and Appointment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2445	Yeah, that's what we're going to include, that's what we're going to put into the agenda, and then we're going to discuss your proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2446	I agree that you put it on the agenda but we're asking it to be included today.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-05-0.u2447	It will be within what is predicted by the Rules of Procedure in the agenda. So we have: - Proposal to elect the president of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament. Proposers are 43 MPs, i.e. representatives. This proposal was proposed in accordance with Article 272. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament by 43 MPs and MPs. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. Do the applicants want to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. No one's answering. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. The vote is over. Of the 138 of us there are 81 for, no abstentions, 52 against. So, pardon 57 against it. I therefore find that most of the votes for the president of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security have been elected by Mr Ranko Ostojic. Congratulations. ... [[Applause.]]
