ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u133	Honorable MPs, we continue our work. I can see that he already has a lot of hands, and then before we move on to the agenda point, and that's the draft law on amendments to the Law on the Croatian National Bank, we're going to take a break. Let's take it in a row. I saw my first respected colleague, Peđa Grbin, and Silvano Hrelja and Goran Aleksic and Miro Bulj, Branko Bačić. Let's go with the explanations.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u134	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's what you said yourself. Let's go with the explanations. The SDP representative club is looking for a 10-minute break related to the announced tax reform, or a whole series of ambiguities that have arisen around its implementation, its adoption and similar occurrences over the last few days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u135	All right. Dear colleague Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u136	Dear Mr. Vice President, on behalf of the HNS and HSU Club, I demand a 10 minute break to say something about the devastating effects of tax reform on Croatian pensioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u137	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u138	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the Club of Representatives Let's change Croatia – SNAGA I want to talk about last week's unmistakable performances of the Croatian Banks Association which called me irresponsible and spoke falsely about the business of Croatian banks.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u139	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the club MOST, I request a 10 minute break on the matter of the arrest of the Croatian Defence Council of Croatian officers a few days ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u141	Thank you. Dear colleague Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u142	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the HDZ club, I am looking for a 10-minute break on the same subject, so the arrest of Croatian citizens in BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u143	Thank you. Seems to me like a fellow Pupovac just called.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u144	Dear Mr. Vice President, on behalf of the SDSS Club, I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes because of the distress created in the days of memory of the dead in the city of Knin because of the desecration of the Orthodox cemetery by leaving messages that do not belong there.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u145	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else? If we don't have six means reported for discussion. We'll continue at 9.45 p.m. Thank you. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] The first meeting was called by SDP MPs' club esteemed counterpart Siniša Hajdas Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u147	Vice President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Every adult, no matter how economical they are, has a view of the prospects for the future, even children learn how to climb the property ladder, and we teach them literally through the prices of final products, i.e. what we can afford, someone more, someone less. And that's how it's been for centuries, but from time indefinite and the struggle for a fairer distribution of income. Gentlemen from HDZ and MOST played a game we know today called Monopol, which was created back in 1903 and designed by Lizzie Philips. It's a game that was supposed to expose the inequality of a social system in which the minority in which the country is owned, earns a profit from the fee paid to the tenant, and then it was called the landowner's game. And we can call this game your tax game today, become an economically-paid killer, become an agent that you work against the public interest, become a fan of Herbert Spencer who believed that it was an economically strong obligation to push out the economically weak until destruction. Democracy and your tax reform are definitely on you, democracy and you have different views on the legal distribution of income. Democracy believes in a fair distribution of income, and your tax reform believes in inequality. how to become even weaker to the economic weak, how to get more business incapacitated from work and destroy the economy by raising VAT to 12% on bread and milk. Any shock within the tax system must cause casualties. You leave it to yourself so natural choice will quickly eliminate the weakest on the market. The 900 thousand that this reform does not concern because it does not grow personal income but will feel more expensive food supplies. I hope you don't, like France in 1873, introduce a candle tax, and you, as heirs of the candle tax, introduce a tax on lighting bodies, light bulbs, batteries, lanterns, because they're going to cheapen the scales, and then surely through your reform, they have to collect lighting bodies. Let's also talk about your tax reform through a regressive action where individuals in the lower economic power will bear a relatively higher tax burden as the price of basic living needs increases while more tax forces will be burdened with lower tax burdens. Gentlemen of the HDZ and MOST, Adam Smith also said that spending taxes especially in live foods have the same fate on the people as the influence of an infertile country or an unfavourable climate. We don't notice in your so-called. full tax reform compensation tools for tax destination. Furthermore, the increase in VAT rates in catering will affect the entire sector. I will just mention that the reservation and sale for the next season has already started at one price, and given the successful business of the sector, a large number of investments in tourism, which has a causual impact on Croatia's construction operation, you will destroy it with your tax reform, reduce profits for the owners, and what is worst you will also weaken the competitive position of Croatian tourism. Let me remind you gentlemen from HDZ and MOST, the Croatian tourism sector is a generator of seasonal affairs, it is a generator of sales, products of the food industry, sales of Malvasia, Plavac,... Crljenka, Iločke grašina, sells gasoline on highways, increases the sales of telecommunications industry impulses, and... some influences the employment of Croatia's traditional industry and crafts. I am responsibly saying that there is no sector in Croatia with such a multiplier effect, so it is logical that each responsible government is watching over tourism especially if it subscribes to GDP with over 20%. For you gentlemen of HDZ and MOST, the idea of equality and moral economy or the heart economy of one who avoids automatic free market mechanisms of the idea of a strong state that will be a co-ordinator of growing inequality because the growing inequality will precisely be the result of your tax reform they do not exist. The SDP has therefore proposed a gradual tax transition in two harmonised ways. The first is to increase the minimum labour price by amending the Minimum Payment Act to exclude the minimum wage amount from individual pay allowances by ensuring a more flexible and transparent way of determining the lowest labour price. There is no such thing with you gentlemen, gentlemen, the apologists of large capital and the banking lobby. Secondly, lead to further tax redundancy of personal income through an increase in the non-taxable part of salary to three thousand kunas, and by further changing tax classes or by moving the tax rate of 40% from 13 thousand to 200 kuna to more and expanding the basis for applying the rate of 25%, which would relieve the labour price, but also further strengthen the position of the medium layer. Every adult, no matter how economical she is, has a view of the prospects for the future. The cracks in your reform are visible, Croatia's future with your tax reform is just a noisy process that leads to life with inequality, a life where low-paid workers will not have private pensions or health care plans leading to failed middle-class expectations, leads to 2% of the rich which will control 10% of Croatia's total wealth. [[Intruder: Time.]] It's a reform of yours that half of your government doesn't believe in.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u148	The second came to the debate with the Club of HNS Representatives, HSU's esteemed colleague, Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u149	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here I have preserved this Programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2016 to 2020, on page 37, writes "sufficient pensions for pensioners" and writes the following: "The government will ensure a decent life for pensioners, including the increase in pensions by 5% by the end of the term of office, the introduction of a national pension and the provision of a voluntary stay on the labour market after 65 years", which is practically a third sentence of the total content relating to pensioners. However, the tax reform presented says something different. Tax experts don't say anything about pensioners doesn't change, I say it changes because those who have a pension to thousands of kunas that didn't have a number, they collect their lives by 10%, they consume the most bread and milk. So their pensions are 10% lower. For those up to 2.5 thousand is 5.6% less pension, and over that, let's say up to 6 grand is exactly the same as it was and only those over 6 grand get slightly bigger pensions. Is that social policy, it's protection from poverty? Instead of talking to those who are the weakest in society, who are not lucky, have enough internships, have the least peaceable. If we have to give 500 kuna to anyone that can survive by the principle of a non-percentive pension increase. Or to introduce such a third annual pension coordination as some of our neighbors have had, in a way, that we look at in a far way, but they have a third-year coordination and advocacy coordination in absolute amounts because they need to live on it. Retired people can't work extra, there's a small number of those who have certain work activities and opportunities to do something about it. We owe these people, we owe them a dignified age, but not a dignified age, in a way that basic food products buy them together. That's the proposal that's on the table. That's the proposal that's on the table. Second, another problem is the problem of the untaxable part of the pension, it does not apply to 95% of the pensioners because 95% of the pensioners have a pension below 6%. So they have the same and less after the new tax reform. Let's just say the privileged have a bigger net pension. The other problem does not apply to these millions and 100,000 pensioners, it refers to 100,000 people who receive pensions from abroad. Here from the HDZ Club, a very large finance minister has advocated that all those receiving pensions from abroad be exempt from paying taxes because there are huge differences in tax bases. For example. Neighbouring Slovenia at 1200 euros, someone pays 15 euros a month in taxes. If we recalculated it, 100 euros a month in Croatia is paid for the same pension here. What does it produce, what effects does it produce? So that people want to report their residence if they have any real estate transfer their residence from Croatia to Slovenia that they do not have to pay huge taxes in Croatia. And every day they show up, every day they show up because their tax press is completely unequal, simply disproportionately high in relation to the country where they exercise their right to retire. In the Republic of Italy there is somewhere translated into our system an untaxable base at 900 euros. The untaxable basis in Slovenia is at 1050 euros, ours remains on the proposal at 3800. Why don't we just raise her up as an untaxable pay base, raise this to five thousand kunas untaxable with the pensioners and apply this system. I'm in favour now, not for retirement. or retired people with larger pensions, I now advocate that as much money as possible remain [[Intruder Jandroković: Time.]] The Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder Jandroković: It's time for a colleague.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u150	On behalf of the Club of Representatives Let's change Croatia and SNAGA, distinguished colleague Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u151	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Last week, an inappropriate announcement came out of the Croatian Banks' Association, unmeasured where they are not truthfully trying to justify the business of their members. Thus, the Croatian Bank Association believes that my statements about the illegal business of Croatian banks are irresponsible, they claim that Croatian banks have been doing business by law all the time. However, that is simply not true. I have already said and I repeat once again, before 1 January 2013, Croatian banks negotiated in most loans with a variable interest rate, a way of changing interest rates in an illegal manner. The interest rate is actually the price of the loan. They negotiated this loan price by changing the price by their administrative decision without any criteria. Thus, such a thing is forbidden under the Law of Mandatory Relations. Articles 269,-272. The law on mandatory relations is clear, they say that the contractual act must be determined and it is binding only if the method of modification of a particular act is agreed. The next thing you know, you're saying that interest rates were in line with the movement of interest rates in the environment, so yes, I agree, but in the environment those interest rates were negotiated in an illegal manner, so we have a whole series of already powerful rulings in an illegal way to change interest rates and to return the amounts paid to debtors in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, Montenegro. Therefore, Serbia only passed a law in 2011 that decided on the future illegal business of banks in the area of change in interest rates. I expect and hope that colleagues from MOST and HDZ will accept some of my proposals to finally establish a methodology for determining the initial fixed margins in all loans where these initial fixed margins are not agreed on in time and thus prevent the continuation of the illegal business of Croatian banks. Then Croatian banks say, or the Croatian Banks' Association says it is allowed to negotiate a variable interest rate. In fact, I never said anywhere that it was forbidden to negotiate variable interest rates. However, the arrangement of a variable interest rate is permitted. The problem, however, is that before 1 January 2013, Croatian banks had agreed on an illegal rate in almost all loans, in a changing interest rate, in a way that was changed by the bank's decision. Confirmation that this is illegal we have in the Supreme Court's verdict. Therefore, the Supreme Court, the High Court of Commerce, decided that seven banks had negotiated unfair contractual provisions between 2003 and 2008 on how to change the interest rate and that these contractual provisions were illegal. Recently, I was talking about the first judicial verdict where the bank complained of a first-degree verdict, however, the County Court rejected the appeal and the debtor must be paid his subscription interest. Next thing you know, they're trying to explain the legality of their business by the fact that interest has never grown above limits. Well, there's a legal restriction only for some pragmatic reasons so that someone doesn't now negotiate an interest rate that's beyond all criteria. The legal limit was 12%, and now, according to that sort of logic, they could increase interest to 12% when they wanted to. No way. Furthermore, they are called on by the Constitutional Court's decision that the Constitutional Court has given them the right to have their business legally. What's this Constitutional Court decision about? In the beginning of 2014, the law laid down that the bank must define, coordinate and finally agree with its debtors in all credits that are not agreed on. If they don't, there's a fine of 80,000 to 200 thousand kuna for the bank and between 10 and 50 grand for the bank's responsible person. So the debtors went to courts, infringement courts, and a hundred first-degree rulings were passed that would punish banks for 80,000 kuna fines for not agreeing with their clients the parameters for changing interest rates. So the banks asked the Constitutional Court to assess the constitutionality of these legal provisions. The Constitutional Court rejected the bank's request for an assessment of the constitutionality of those provisions, thus the provisions are constitutional. He only changed the date of the infringement from 1 January to 1 April 2014 and that is all. Therefore, the Constitutional Court did not confirm the bank's legitimate business, but on the contrary confirmed the bank's illegal operations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u152	Thank you, too. Fourth in line, distinguished colleague Miro Bulj on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, we witness daily news of the arrests of members of the HVO and senior officers of the Croatian Army. So here it is the other day, like out of the blue now that we remember our dead, mostly those who are the most responsible for the achievement of the free Republic who fought together in the BIH in the area of the defence war against large-serb aggression, and in the area of the Republic of Croatia. News came of the arrest of ten officers and members of the HVO in the Bosnian Posavina area suspected of committing a war crime. Lately, we have been witnessing, in recent years, that mostly the Bosnian judiciary is pressing charges against Croatian defenders, generals, HVO officers. The question arises what about the crimes committed in the area of BIH over Croatian life and we are witnessing that Croatian politics, we parliamentary representatives, those who are now arresting are responsible that we today have this Parliament and what we can debate in a democratic way. So, with 41 civilians killed and an unarmed person in Uzol, among whom are many Croatian children? On the other hand, what about crimes in central Bosnia like massacres in the village of Križevci, Brajkovic and other places in 1993? No charges have been filed. All crimes should be condemned, but the character of the Homeland War in Croatia as the Homeland War, as a participant in the BiH Croatian Army, together with the members of the HVO, stopped the huge Serbian aggression and Seselj's Chetnik campaign. This is where the truth is twisted. We need the truth about the Homeland War. The institutions of the Republic of Croatia and it is commendable that the prime minister went to his first visit to the BiH and that is a state act because the obligation of the Republic of Croatia is to take care of Croats in the BiH. But it's not enough just to express some kind of concern. There is a Council of National Security at the moment when this is happening as the President of the Republic as the head of the Republic responsible for these problems is obliged to call upon the Council of National Security, to stand in the protection of Croatian citizens. I also see defenders here, Predrag Matic, regardless of what is left, General Glasnović and other Croatian, Djakic's colleague on the other hand, all these people together in the Homeland War with members of HVO who defended this country. That is why we call on the Croatian institution's MOST to stand in the protection of Croatian citizens, not to be persecuted and to be on an open hunting ground. We are witnessing in the 15 years of Croatian diplomacy and politics that it was all about arrests, locations, trials of Croatian defenders, while Croatian strategic national interests were issued, and those arrested have been proven in The Hague, it has been demonstrated in the rulings of Croatian generals that they were in a freeing war both in Croatia and in Posavina and BIH. All institutions if we are a serious state, if we have a state attitude regardless of the EU dealing with its problems, the Croatian state has the right and must commit to dead defenders and those people who are left alone now protect them as true heroes and true defenders and are responsible for the democratic changes that took place in the 1990s. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u154	Thank you to my esteemed colleague, Bull. After him, the HDZ Representatives' Club and distinguished counterpart Miro Kovac appeared.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. This is what counterpart Bulj said, meaning first several basic parameters about Croatia's relationship with Bosnia and Herzegovina. Croatia is a signator of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH and thus Croatia guarantees the Constitution and the neighbouring country along with the Republic of Serbia and clearly together with BiH itself. Very important information, we have to do it again every time. So we are the sums of BiH's integrity and as such we respect its independence politically. Also, Croatia, as counterpart Bulj said, has an obligation on the basis of its Constitution to guarantee special care for Croats both in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that is what Croatia does. And it's clear that every crime is a crime and every crime should be prosecuted. It doesn't matter where the war crime took place and who did it. He needs to be processed. However, the political context should always be kept in mind. What would the political context of Croats in BiH be? The context is such that the Croats voted in the referendum in BiH in large numbers for BiH's independence, that the Croats were the first to rise up against aggression against BiH, and I say very often that the Croats saved BiH. That Croats are the biggest demographic losers in BiH, the biggest. If you look at the data, there are fewer of us in BiH than 25 years ago and there are relatively fewer of us than the other two founding nations. So, Croats are the biggest victims of war in BiH especially in what we call Republika Srpska where Croats are largely extinct. And then those Croats who defended the Bosnian Posavina today are subject to charges. We will not interfere in the work of BiH judicial authorities because it is a neighbouring friendly independent state, but we have the right to warn this context. Because among the Croats in BiH not only in Posavina, but elsewhere, but also among those living in Croatia because most of our citizenship is ruled by real uncertainty. And it's unacceptable. So, we expect our authorities, in cooperation with their colleagues in BiH, to break up with this legal uncertainty, to know who's being accused, who's going to be accused, to know who's going to be on the basis of these indictments, to arrest to end this legal uncertainty because it's unacceptable for us here in Croatia especially because we've already achieved a consensus in Croatia for several years and it shows this after the Prime Minister of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but this practice has already been introduced by Mr. Josipovic and before. After him, Mr Milanovic, and all initiated by Mr. President Tudjman, had a consensus when the BiH issue in Croatia and the left political spectrum, both right and centristically, and so on must be. On behalf of this, we expect our government, its president, to stand up for BiH counterparts, to clear the matter up and stop legal uncertainty when it comes to Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina who I repeat have consciousness. And we have this consciousness saved by neighbouring BiH. Turns out it's sad, I don't want to believe it, that someone's bothered to support BiH and its integration into the EU, so it turns out. I want to believe that this is a false impression, because it is not normal for our government to travel to BiH, send a positive message that it wants to help BiH, all three people, all citizens, that it wants to advocate its integration into the EU, that it wants to protect the Croatian people in BiH and that as a card, we get all 10 arrests here together in Bosnia's Posavina. It's not right, it's not acceptable and we expect our colleagues in the executive to engage properly. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u156	Thank you to my esteemed colleague, Kovac. And the last debate of five minutes is a distinguished colleague, Milorad Pupovac, on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u157	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The SDSS club today will not look back either on the tax reform proposal, nor on the latest arrests in BiH, although it could, of course, talk about it. What we're going to talk about is our obligation to upset the citizens of northern Dalmatia especially in the territory of the city of Knin because during the holidays of the dead in the graves of Orthodoxs they found official notices that these graves will be moved away because of the failure of administrative obligations. The way it was done was completely inappropriate. It's about defilement of graves, it's about scaring people who come to visit those places and it's about the fact that they don't respect memories and memories. If people are not available, there are ways for the state and local self-government to organise to make it available to people. Leaving that type of notice at grave sites is a sign of deforestation and insebriation. And on the other hand, it's not the usual procedure, nor is it the result of the usual phenomenon. The mass exodus and mass prevention of people's return are behind the fact that people can't care about their graves. Now we're going to punish them for that fact. It's something you can't do. And for this reason, from this place, we call on the competent institutions in both the state and local self-government to approach it the way it should be accessed otherwise, we will experience it in the way they treated living people without being able to stay in their homes and without being able to return to their homes. Now the ones who stayed in their graves are in turn, so they won't be able to stay in their seats either. It's inadmissible, inhuman, inhuman and non-civilizing.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u158	We've exhausted five minutes of debate with this. Before we move on to the debate on the draft law amending and supplementing the CNB Act, one notice to the members of the Committee on Science, Education and Culture. They were scheduled to hold a session today at 13:30, this session will be held today at 12:30 and at the Ivan Mažuranić hall as I said at 12:30. We're moving on with our work. The next item of the agenda is - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Croatian National Bank, first reading, P.Z. No. 9; Proposing the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists pursuant to Articles 172 and 184. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You took the material to the benches. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and their reports were received at the session. I would now like to ask the applicant's representative to further explain the proposal. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists will be spoken by distinguished counterpart Tomislav Panenić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2838	Thank you, Vice President. The esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs in our country are divided into three parts, legislative, judicial and executive, however, there is one exception, and this is the CNB he should normally act as part of the executive and legislative authority but it is not he's monetary authority. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution is explicitly prescribed that the CNB is independent in its work. And what I would like to highlight is responsible for the Croatian Parliament. But those constitutional provisions are not fully incorporated in the CNB Act. It states, so Article 2(2) reads as follows: "In the pursuit of its objective and in the performance of its tasks, the CNB is independent and independent." So it is no longer responsible for the Parliament. The 2001 CNB law gave independence to the central bank in order to prepare legislative actions for the opening of EU entry procedures. In this context, the State audit, which was previously in the CNB, which was previously entrusted with meaning in terms of the CNB audit, was replaced by an independent external auditor. However, after the economic crisis and a number of other circumstances, different solutions are required to help increase the transparency of the central bank's business and thus increase responsibility. Therefore, in this proposal, we are not engaged in amending and supplementing the CNB Act by exercising supervision over central banks, for example. have Germany, Spain, France, Cyprus and other countries, i.e. having full control of the work of the central bank, these amendments continue to comply with the provisions of paragraphs 10, 11 of that law which unequivocally state: "In the achievement of their objective and in the performance of their tasks, the CNB and its members are independent in the adoption and implementation of their decisions based on this law. The Croatian National Bank and its members shall not seek or be bound by the instructions of the Republic of Croatia, its institutions or bodies or members of those bodies or other persons." and also in paragraph 11. ‘The Republic of Croatia and its institutions or bodies, members of those bodies and other persons shall not affect the independence of the CNB, the adoption and implementation of the provisions of the CNB and its bodies, nor shall they approve, cancel, postpone, suspend or in any other way affect any decision of the CNB in the delirious part of its jurisdiction.’ This is precisely because, on many occasions, the announcement of these amendments resisted the potential impact on the independence of the work of the CNB. I will mention that although a series of measures strengthens the independence of the central bank in accordance with EU law and other relevant regulations, it is precisely different mechanisms aimed at increasing transparency that enable the public to see the central bank's operations and the spending of funds available under the applicable rules. According to studies conducted, although it is very high on the CNB scale, the worst at the level of transparency among the central banks of southern Europe where Albania, BiH, Macedonia, Malta, Slovenia are mentioned. In addition, media often provide information that creates a bad picture of the work of the Croatian monetary authority's head. I'll list an excerpt from one of the CNB's statements. If an absolute amount of operating costs per employee is observed, it can be observed that only the central bank of Bulgaria has lower costs than the CNB among the analogue countries while the costs of the CNB are similar to those of Romania, the Czech Republic, and a little lower than in Hungary and Poland. In addition, as regards the costs of business, the CNB is very transparent on its website, so this data is publicly available. That statement, as well as a statement discussing the concepts, such as, I do not know, the comfortable rate, the adequateness rate, the reference rate, is difficult to understand for a citizen as well as for the business of the CNB itself, and they are unarranged in relation to the everyday lives of our citizens. No answer is given to questions that often arise, whether the governor travels too much, whether travel is overpaid, whether the CNB spends tens of millions of kuna on material costs, are all questions to which we and the general public are looking for answers. The work of the CNB is undeniable topics of interest to the public, and the parliament has already discussed the financial report of the CNB and the alleged luxury enjoyed by its leaders and employees, and it is right to ask the question, what this esteemed House will say to the public when in the media, for example. information such as the fact that the CNB spent 38 million kuna on employees in the crisis in 2010 on other costs, including saunas, massages, tennis, gyms, squash, etc., and the following day is announced that the governor cut the costs. And then the news is that the CNB spent even more than 38.8 million kuna for the same purposes in 2011. What's our answer? We're going to ask the governor or we're going to give the State Audit to check the allegations or we can tell what's seen from the plane, that without clear data, we're going to pour wood and stone on both the CNB and the governor. So also former SDP Finance Minister Mr. Lalovac was surprised at his time and asked one right rhetorical question, we have six years of recession, six years of high-interest crisis, and we owe them, a Greek state, a bunch of businesses and citizens there's only one sector, I mean banking above all that, like he lives on Mars, he's got huge profits, he's good, and they say there's no problem. But unfortunately, nothing was done then. I am personally more concerned by the statement by the governor's advisers who said that we have done much in the transparency of business, various media inscriptions and are due to transparency because the CNB has published all its purchases up to details and the last kuna. I'd say no one there understood the essence of the media or the public. And we in MOST haven't been hiding our dissatisfaction with the transparency of the work of the CNB since the beginning. We agree that our Central Bank should enjoy a high degree of autonomy but that does not mean that it can be insensitive and not solidarity with the problems that occur in society. But if someone is questioning the integrity of the CNB, then it should first be determined that the reasons arise from the poor regulation. Namely, the CNB creates its own budget without consulting the Ministry of Finance, which is always a good basis for unintentional spending of money. In this, they are not alimony of anything the CNB does not finance from the state budget because their revenues are made by law of established transactions, which is, among other things, the management of international reserves, the supervisory of banks, the issue of coins, banknotes, and, in turn, we propose several amendments. supplement of the Law on the Croatian National Bank. It is proposed that independent external auditors and the State Audit Office should be provided with an audit of the financial and overall operations carried out under Article 62 of the current law. The involvement of the State Audit would result in an increase in the transparency of business and would result in a method of parallel value criteria, so on. Benchmarking, and on the business cost plan, assessed whether Croatia has an efficient, economical and efficient Central Bank. The proposal for amending and supplementing the law clearly determines what is considered to be such a revision, with respect of the EU legal framework applicable to central banks and without prejudice to the principle of institutional independence at all. This proposal for a law took into account that the scope of the control must be clearly established by the legal framework, it must be without prejudice to the tasks of the examination of all accounts and accounts of the central bank by an independent external auditor and, in accordance with the principle of institutional independence, be in line with the prohibition of giving instructions to the National Central Bank and its decision-making bodies, and shall not affect the tasks of the National Central Bank relating to the European System of Central Banks. This will avoid the situation that the State Audit is engaged in assessments of monetary policy and supervision of banks for which they do not have sufficient competence, it is simply something that is not going with each other. However, what the State Audit can certainly do is monitor the operations of the central bank and warn, to determine why the CNB e.g. per employee, there are 135 thousand kunas per year of material costs, directorial, office and others, while e.g. The same State Audit Office, which would also audit, has the costs of 20 thousand kuna per employee and will certainly be able to make quality recommendations in line with the position of the European Central Bank, the State Audit will be carried out on a non-political, independent and gradual professional basis. I note that the legislative framework for the work of the State Audit Office will also have to be amended, and the Law on the State Audit Office will set out the power to carry out the audit of the business of the CNB. As early as 2004, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed its session on 2 December the issue of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State Audit. The fact that it is interesting to draw attention to the provisions of Article 1 of the final proposal for a law shaved by the CNB as an entity subject to the review of the State Audit Office was then brought to the attention of the Committee and was requested to review it. In the light of the opinion, the provision of Article 57 is required. The CNB Act is deleted and the Revision Act remains an obligation for the CNB to continue to be an entity subject to the revision of the State Audit Office. It is said that at that time it is known that external audit houses which some and private owned may carry out audits of the composition of financial reports and of the entire business of the CNB which are not acceptable and which should continue to be carried out by the State audit. Unfortunately, after the debate was held, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget decided, however, unanimously to propose the adoption of those amendments. Of course, it would certainly recommend that the implementation of the findings and the review warrants that are related to this be strengthened because the auditors, and when they find a violation of the law, they guide their recommendations, the institutions accept recommendations, even sometimes justified, sometimes do not accept them but what is the problem, the criminal or criminal persecution responsible for the violation does not exist. In principle, the CNB does not oppose the entry of a state audit but warns that there is a need to clearly distinguish what the audit should monitor and then call for the position of the European Central Bank, which, at the request of the Ministry of Finance, gave its opinion on this amendment to the law. It notes, inter alia, that the State audit must not jeopardise the independence of the national Central Bank, i.e. the prohibition of giving instructions to the central bank means that on its bodies and employees. I would now conclude this subject of the revision that the independence of the CNB in terms of monetary policy creation and implementation will certainly not violate a state audit that would determine whether the CNB spends 40 million kuna on material costs, which would show whether Governor Boris Vujčić's trip to Peru should really cost 70 thousand kuna and whether it should be the governor if that item is to be carried out on an official journey for as many as 260 days a year. Furthermore, the bill states that the Croatian National Bank must submit once a year to the Croatian Assembly half-yearly information on the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy as well as the annual report on its work and business. These documents will be discussed at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament and will be voted on for their acceptance or acceptance. It is important to stress that during the debate on those documents, in line with the independence of the Central Bank, there will be no question or debate will have an impact on the independence of the members of the decision-making bodies of the CNB and the special status of governors in their capacity as members of the General Council of the European Central Bank must be fully respected. At the same time, the Croatian National Bank and the Croatian Parliament will respect confidentiality requirements stemming from the Statutes of the European System of Central Banks. In addition to this, it is proposed to limit the duration of the term of office of members of the Council of the Croatian National Bank in a way that citizens of the Republic of Croatia with a recognised personal reputation and professional experience in monetary financial, banking or legal areas can be members of the Council of the Croatian National Bank for a maximum of two mandates each of which takes 6 years. In accordance with the principle of legal certainty, transitional and final provisions shall determine the mandate and rights of the current members of the Council of the Croatian National Bank. It is also noted that according to the current law, the term of office of governors and vice governors lasts for 6 years without restrictions allowing them to have a life term and such practice is unknown in both the European Union and the world. And what is important for the implementation of this law is not necessary to provide additional resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2839	Thank you very much. We have eight replicas. The first replica is the esteemed colleague Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2840	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will begin by saying that I will support these amendments to the law because I advocate the same thing as my colleagues who have proposed the law for greater transparency and that the public has the right to know what money is spent on in the CNB without it affecting their independence and the quality of their work. Perhaps the quality of a part of the free time that, if this is true what you said about having spa massages, masters and everything else related to your job paid but certainly not with the quality of work. What worries me and what wouldn't be bad if the law had laid down, and that is to bind certain material costs that must not be higher than a certain percentage of the CNB budget in order to and in this way, I would say affect the responsibility of those who spend that same public money. On the other hand, I am concerned that you are proposing a good law that goes after greater transparency of the CNB and, on the other hand, the amendments to the income tax laws that will be proposed to these same people in the CNB are raised among the highest salaries in the Republic of Croatia. The salaries will no longer be 32, 33,000 but in the CNB with income tax changes, so-called. The National Dictionary Superhic Reform, which kidnaps the poor and gives the rich, which the MOST also proposes, will jump the salaries in the CNB at the Council of 3 to 4 thousand kuna. On the one hand, it means you limit them and, on the other hand, Superhik by tax reform, you raise their salaries between three and four thousand kunas.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2841	Reply to the replica, dear colleague Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2842	Thank you. Dear colleague Maras, I am pleased that you have accepted exactly the initiative that we have launched at this time, although this is the initiative that here is being advocated by the SDP in its own time, and I am glad that we have all agreed here in the Parliament. However, in my presentation, I have made a series of amendments and additions to the law, but I have not seen any of these proposals refer to salary increases, even though I think that the intensity of this is precisely whether to reduce the material costs of both employees and the entire institution. So here I would ask perhaps when this tax reform that you are referring to comes to the Parliament's agenda to refer it to the proposer as an examination and probably the work of the CNB will then be very important in order to determine the criterion of what the salary level in the public sector is. So you certainly have my support at this point and I would like to ask you then to contact the proposer and with this we will certainly try to apply all the constructive proposals that will be. By improving this proposal to amend and supplement the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2843	The second replica is the esteemed colleague of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2844	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will not talk so much about the content of the law itself because many times it has been said about other laws that your esteemed club has suggested that the intensity is not disputed but that it is a controversial realization. In fact, there is something called the EU's operating contract, it has some contributions, Annex 4, talks about the European Central Bank and the European Central Banking System. I have carefully studied your bill, in which you mention only Article 130. Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. You are saying that this law is in line with this Article, but the Croatian Parliament is not in charge of determining whether any of the acts are national acts in accordance with Article 130. The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU has already taken place on the basis of Article 127 of that Treaty which you did not mention in any word in the draft law and on the basis of Article 4. The Protocol to the Lisbon Treaty is the only relevant institution for this matter. Therefore, this bill does not say anywhere that you have implemented the EU's operating contract prescribed a consultation procedure with the European Central Bank. I listened to your debate, you were talking about the European Central Bank's proposal for a Law on State Audit made certain remarks and that this law complied with those remarks. This makes it clear that this bill enters the competence of the European Central Bank because it would otherwise not have responded to earlier proposed laws. By not conducting the consultation procedure with the European Central Bank, the European Central Bank has threatened the danger of the Republic of Croatia coming to the so-called ‘European Central Bank’. Infrarement procedure. Therefore, please send the opinion of the European Central Bank to the representatives of the Croatian Parliament first, and I apologize, I will finish, the European Central Bank. Secondly, until the second reading, refer this bill to the European Central Bank, respect the procedure so that it can all unanimously adopt this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2845	Thank you. Dear fellow Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2846	Thank you. Dear counterpart Grbin, I am pleased that you have warned this, but I would also remind you that during the spring of this year, this amendment and the addition of the law were discussed and that at that time the Ministry of Finance referred to the European Central Bank a request for their opinion. They gave an opinion. So, should we, I don't know if you're trying to get to the stage again when we should ask them again if they have any new opinions on this proposal or if it's actually this opinion they've given enough in our view, given that nothing has changed in terms of content. So we got their opinion and it's consistent. I just want to know why you're so much represented that we're going back to some adjustments when here from your previous statements it was clear that you support exactly the views that the National Bank report should be discussed, that it should be voted on and that this does not put pressure on the Central Bank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2847	Replica number three, dear colleague Tomislav Sauch.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2848	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, this is another MOST law with a name and last name. I think we can call this one Lex Boris Vujcic. Because it is not the point of this law to improve the efficiency of the work of the CNB, the CNB is one of the fundamental institutions and if it could function in this way it will still be able to continue. But what is it? The colleagues from MOST and HDZ are endlessly irritated by the character and work of Governor Boris Vujčić. They want to portray him as one of the world's travellers, the unemployed who spends more than 300 days a year on the road and who spends on all sorts of fine things. I mean, I have to admit, it was the same thing when it was written about it, and I see that it was motivated by this one of his characters in the media, that is. His public perception. It disgusted me when it said that they had a sommelier there that loved their food and wine. I don't think such things are good. But let's be fair, this is a law that will serve to deal with the Most with Governor Boris Vujcic. I'd like to note that when the former prime minister led him to Kitzbühel, your prime minister did not have any objections. And just one thing I'd like to add here, and I'm going to talk about in my individual debate whether you're worried about how the State Audit works, because the State Audit is de facto the only institution in the Republic of Croatia that is not audited. So I'd like to open the topic here and I'll say it in an individual debate so we don't have to look at where the head of state's auditor has traveled and how the state's audit works in accordance with international audit standards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2849	Reply to the replica, dear colleague Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2850	Thank you very much. As far as these questions are concerned, of course I'm interested in MOST, interested in the public, and we haven't come to this data from the CNB, they're presented in the media, so that's exactly the kind of accusations that I can say are serious and, of course, we're all interested in what's really going on. So it's not just a statement that the CNB compares itself with some other national bank, central banks of other countries in the environment or the EU, but we're just trying to find out if it was actually happening in the part where I said that they're not aware when they're going out with information, that they're actually interested in the public whether they're acting in a way that's consistent with the state, whether they're acting in accordance with what the principles of a good management of the master are. So, it's not that this State Audit is supposed to reveal there I don't know what we certainly don't expect, but we just want to introduce the principles that we're doing here in the Parliament and we're doing it ourselves, right, all the MPs. It's being conducted by both the ministries and everyone else. Therefore, we just want to achieve some benchmark and some comparison to know the frameworks in which the entire system operates, the whole society, so that no longer have to appear the allegations that I have stated that, whether they are true or not, then of course there will probably also be the governor to say whether the trip to Kitzbühel was justified, whether he brought any benefit and that is something that is information that we all want and then no expense is asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2851	The fourth replica of the esteemed colleague Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2852	Dear Representative Panenic, here are the distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Let me just remind you briefly. A few months ago, when I was a member of the MOST, we raised this particular issue of amending the CNB Act, and then we collected Dr. Goran Maric and I have 45 signatures here in the Parliament and representatives from nine different political parties. However, the obstruction of the HDZ peak at the time was very strong and there was nothing that could be done. So I'm glad that MOST is now in its guarantees let's say it imposed a debate without collecting signatures and that this issue came back on the agenda and that's good because it's an institution too important for the functioning of the economy and society that I'm going to talk about later in an individual debate. I'd like to ask Agent Panenic next. In fact, in one place you say that membership in the Council will be regulated for two mandates, and in the transitional and final provisions, I quote: "In accordance with the principle of legal certainty, it is determined that the mandate of the current members of the CNB Council continues until its end. It is also clear that the rules of this law will not be retroactively applied, that the current members of the CNB Council as well as persons who are... Members of the future may be members in accordance with the provisions of this Act, i.e. "Well, gentlemen, what exactly are you going to do to change this article? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You will give people of whom one 25 years has already been a vice governor, and the second already in the third term gives the opportunity to be hypothetical again twice six, twelve years in the same position. Is it someone who set you up or are you really insisting on what we're not looking for, so because I'm glad it's these three guys? Three changes to the same, but in an explanation, I can see that someone's been tampered with. [[Intruder Jandroković: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2853	Thank you. Reply to the replica of counterpart Panenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2854	Dear fellow Lovrinović, I will certainly thank you, too, to the entire team then in Mosto who worked to prepare this bill and amend and supplement the Law on the Croatian National Bank. And I'm aware that the obstructions were strong. But here, when we see these obstructions were not only during that term, but there were obstructions before and there was no revision to show up once, to actually show its true role and to enter all institutions where it can give an indication of the real and the real state. So here I welcome this effort, and I welcome and probably also your individual debate that will contribute to the improvement of this proposal. And I expect in the end because I see that the support is unquestionably unquestionable that we will all finally pass this law, that it will no longer be a problem, and the problem you yourself have cited is not the proposing's problem, but as far as we are concerned, we would remove that provision. Because we wouldn't complain to the Constitutional Court about the content of that article. But as far as I can see from the debate, there's always been a provision that applied retroactively to one's rights as the right basis for the Constitutional Court's action. And then again, we would have questioned the entire amendment proposal and the addition of the law whether they were in line with the Constitution. We think right now because of the non-infringement of the relationship that she's having so she won't raise herself... We have a personal view of someone perhaps that it should be treated in this way that his role in the management of the CNB was wrong and that part of his mandate when he passed that when he formed the new advice he would then be able to valorize someone's work and that we would get advice that would lead the CNB in future time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2855	Next replica, dear colleague Marin Skibola.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2856	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. I'd suggest a couple of components to the Most. The first component of the review of the benefits of all CNB officials primarily of the CNB and governors, as well as the public publication. It's the first component. Also, I suggest that the compensation for the work of the CNB Council be abolished or 50% reduced. The CNB points out that, for the sake of additional transparency, it has established an external audit committee consisting of prominent scientists in the field of finance and audit and information technologies assessing the work of an independent external auditor of the CNB. So I ask the question that these prominent scientists are and why, for example, there is no Mr. Slavko Kulić among them who is an excellent policy expert of the Croatian National Bank. The introduction of different types of sanctions to monetary policy holders if cases such as the Swiss franc, the RBA cooperatives and the conscious destruction of domestic production are repeated, as is the case today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2857	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2858	Maybe I'll just say this for a second. This is the role of the State Audit Office, which will show by its audit findings where the derogations may be, may also establish some of these allegations that you have, and then may also coordinate future business.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2859	Thank you. The sixth replica, colleague Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2860	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor. First of all, what we must say is that we support transparency, but not experimenting with the Croatian Kuna. Therefore, it should be known if the costs are transferred, if someone eats and drinks, but must not be experimented with the Croatian kuna. So far, no government has dared experiment with the Croatian Kuna. I'll remind you at a time of crisis, a foreign hedge fund from abroad tried to compromise the position of the kuna and there could have been a depression, a depreciation in the trade in kuna. Of course, their intensity wasn't to bring down the kuna for themselves, it was to earn money on that kuna. But this would potentially lead to the problem of the complete financial sector in Croatia. They managed to do so with only 17m euros in trade on the international market that at that time CNB and its governor were not prevented from trading kuna on international markets. Therefore, this is a sensitive matter and I urge you not to experiment on this matter. In Article 61b(3), you have made it possible for the State Office to obtain the confidential information referred to in Article 37. The SSB and SSB Statutes in accordance with SSB rules. So, my people don't play with classified data because the kuna position can be compromised if it intervenes in any way in terms of privileged information on the CNB's monetary policy. Kuna has managed to stay stable by now, and she doesn't need any experiment. In the current few days, we've seen a lot of experiments. First the government was called, then changed after a week. Then the guarantees came, eventually changed. There is neither a reduction in HRT's subscription nor a declaration of the economic belt, and the latest announced tax reform is now being announced before it is published. So don't experiment. We support transparency, but don't play with the stability of the kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2861	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2862	Since here yesterday I was on the number of events and a minute of silence might be the best answer to this because you really entered the area in which here was neither mentioned nor will in any way allow this provision to happen perhaps the situation that you have now highlighted. What is very important to say, you probably understand, is that any member of the auditor who comes there, of course, as a person, and also as an officer in charge of the work, is certainly responsible and that he was checked for those who sent him there, that he understands and knows what he's doing, and that bringing out information that would affect his work would be something that is not within the realm of his work, and anyone would understand it that way. Therefore, here we have also stated that the role of the audit will not be to give guidance to the work of the governor or the Council of the CNB but to be in the direction that their cost of economics, the efficiency of the business of the institution is adapted to the frameworks in which the others operate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2863	The seventh replica, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2864	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here we have from the legislator, therefore, a proposal to increase the transparency of the work of the CNB. In fact, it is a good intention but it does not address the issue of the CNB and its work as one of the key problems of the current crisis in the Croatian economy and society in general. It is clear, however, that there are various irregularities being addressed. We all know, therefore, that the administration has the kind of salary that goes up to 70 thousand kuna gross, that it is the money of taxpayers subsidizing its loans completely unwarranted. If we look at their property cards, we see that the vice governor is, say, Damir Odak, a property worth 37 million kunas that he has nothing to justify. So he can't justify it with his salary. It is already clear in advance that illegalities are taking place. However, the question of who appointed people in the CNB administration and governors who carried out a catastrophic monetary policy and who therefore caused Croatian people's debt slavery through illegal loans in Swiss francs, through the currency clause and through the complete subjugation of Croatian monetary sovereignty to foreign capital will again be cleared when these illegalities begin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2865	There's no response to the replica. The last replica is Honorable colleague Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2866	A colleague of Panenić's transparency of all bodies is very important and so is the CNB. This only essentially makes us work to be equal that we do not have any means of some Pharaohic system that within the Croatian system, and the CNB is within the Croatian system regardless of monetary policy, that their work within the organisationally has the right to audit, way of employment, costs, material costs, wages. It shouldn't be anything controversial. As far as my colleagues are concerned, I can see that my colleagues from the SDP have not yet agreed whether to support or not, and otherwise they supported, one part, one part is for. So maybe they're doing it on the basis of friendship. We're not against the governor because he's friends with Zoran Milanovic and Emil Tedeschi and they spin CDs there together. Are, we absolutely don't care if it's other colleagues we don't even think about talking about at the Tach restaurant. It is of interest to us, only to MOST is the interest of transparency that the audit here as well as to all others that before us parliamentary representatives whom the people chose that we need to talk publicly about problems in the CNB. Of course, I as a person, the Franak Association is responsible, that the CNB means it in a high administrative court. The association "Franak" received the verdict means that it protected non-citizens but protected apparently banks. So, that could also be discussed with a number of other things. Mostly this is a proposal where we all agree, where we are and... In the last term, the spear was broken, we went out to mention it and Professor Lovrinovic was where the spear was, where there were huge resistances. [[You don't understand.]] Of course, we need to know that the Croatian National Bank did not even protect our gold, it is 15 tons of gold is not small, we are the only state within our few that does not have a gram of gold. I don't even know how, as a citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2867	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2868	Thank you. Dear colleague Bulj, I really don't know if we've been involved in the same debate, but it seems we've heard differently or interpreted differently. I as much as felt that the SDP's Club of Representatives they would support this law... Perhaps it is better for the European Central Bank to have this indication on the Internet, too, when it is read, I think we have then removed the obstacles that were. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Therefore, I expect that this individual debate will also be in my favor, not my colleague Bulj, for your benefit. So we expect to get a positive green light on this proposal that we made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2869	Thank you, too. We're moving on to committees now. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The first is on behalf of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the esteemed representative Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2870	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Committee, I will read the report, which it says, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 1st session held on 18 October 2016 on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the CNB, which was delivered by the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent List by the President of the Croatian Parliament on 14 October 2016. Financial and State Budget Committee of the Croatian Parliament on the basis of its competence referred to in Article 73 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the law in question as the home working body. In his opening statement, the proposing representative stressed that in order to increase the transparency of the business of the CNB, it is necessary to enable the public to take into account the operations of the Central Bank, as well as an insight into the spending of funds available under the applicable rules. According to the studies carried out, the CNB is the worst at the level of transparency among the central banks of the countries of South Europe, which is why it is necessary to carry out independent external auditors and the State Audit Office in accordance with Article 61 of the current CNB Act. The law would clearly establish what is considered to be an audit with respect to the EU legal framework applicable to the operation of central banks and without prejudice to the principle of institutional independence referred to in Article 130. Treaty on the Functioning of the EU and Article 7 The Statute of the European System of Central Banks. Furthermore, the proposed draft law took into account that the scope of the control must be clearly established by the legal framework, must be without prejudice to the tasks of the examination of all accounts and accounts of the Central Bank by an independent external auditor and, in accordance with the principle of institutional independence, be in line with the prohibition of giving instructions to the National Central Bank and its decision-making bodies and shall not affect the tasks of the National Central Bank related to the European System of Central Banks. It has been pointed out that the revision by the State Audit Office would be necessary on a non-political, independent and fully professional basis, and in order to implement the proposed amendments to the CNB Act, it will also be necessary to amend the Law on the State Audit Office. Furthermore, the bill states that the CNB must submit once a year to the Croatian Parliament half-yearly information on the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy, as well as the annual report on its work and business, which would be discussed and voted in the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. It is also proposed to limit the duration of the term of office of members of the CNB Council in such a way that citizens of the Republic of Croatia with recognised personal reputation and professional experience in monetary, financial, banking or legal areas can be members of the CNB Council for a maximum of two mandates each of which takes six years. The discussion on the committee praised the proposed initiative for amending and supplementing the law because the CNB must not in any way be excluded from the control system by the State Audit Office. It is also proposed to prescribe legal consequences in the event that half-yearly information on the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy and the annual report on the work and business of the CNB is not voted on in the Croatian Parliament. Furthermore, the issue is presented by the CNB Council, which, under the statutes, makes governors, deputy governors and six vice governors of the CNB without external independent experts, which leads to doubts as the leadership of the CNB advises itself and can also lead to a situation of potential conflict of interest. It is pointed out that the proposed amendments and amendments to the law will not prejudice the independence of the Central Bank as well as the independence of its members, and putting under the supervision system by the State Audit Office is necessary as a further step in increasing the transparency of the work and spending of the funds available to the CNB. The proposed amendments and additions will be inconclusive unless the Law on the State Audit Office is amended, and it is necessary to refer that law to the legislative procedure. It is also thought that it is necessary to maintain the independence of the CNB, not allow the state audit to interfere with monetary policy and all in order to maintain the stability of the Croatian kuna exchange rate and price stability. After the debate was held, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided by majority of votes, 9 votes for and 2 abstentions to propose the next conclusion to the Croatian Parliament. The draft law amending and supplementing the law on the Croatian National Bank is hereby adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2871	Thank you. Since the Committee on Legislatives, or its President Drazen Bosnjakovic, did not report for the debate, we are now moving on to the debate, I am opening it. We have seven clubs and 10 individual debates for now. First order of business, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2872	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You have violated the provision of Article 235. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament because, even though I asked you for a replica of the Committee's representative's speech, you did not allow it. For example, Article 235. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament allow MPs in the Croatian Parliament to replicate anyone who participates in the debate. Therefore, please correct the above and allow me to reply to the above exposure I have requested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2873	So this was about the committee's report and according to the practice so far, and according to what I heard from my associates, there was never a replica on the committee's report. So you can contact the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, and then we will consider on that body whether you are right or wrong, but so far, it has been such that there has been no replication to the report of the committees in charge. I'm sorry, I'd like you to speak to the board for this.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2874	I'm sorry, but you have to allow me to state on the record that I'm going to ask the board for an opinion because if I don't put it on the record, then I won't have the right, so I just asked you to let me say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2875	It's all right, thank you. Okay, so we're moving on to the debate. It is the first club of SDSS representatives and distinguished colleague Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2876	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The proposal of the Law on Supplements to the Law on the Croatian National Bank, which was referred to in the procedure by colleagues from the Most, is one of the legal proposals they intend to create a better picture of how key institutions in the Republic of Croatia function. But creating a better picture won't make an institution better at what they need to do. A colleague, Panenic, is concerned about how much travel has been spent in the CNB and does not care what monetary policy is like. My colleague Panenic cares as much as he cares about us whether an independent audit is independent enough and does not care whether our monetary policy is independent and to what extent and how complementary it is with the needs of our economy, our society in general. A colleague, Panenic, worries whether the Croatian Parliament has the opportunity to discuss the CNB reports, with the right because it is necessary to restore the parliament's influence on key economic, financial and political issues in the country. I guess that's what we all feel, we all know, and we all see it as a need. But my colleague Panenic doesn't say anywhere that we are in '93. created monetary policy in '93, '94. a fixed exchange rate for which not only the Parliament but also the key economic flows no longer have an impact on what is going to happen in the economic sphere. And on the other hand, counterpart Panenic also says that it is necessary to increase the influence of the parliament and I agree with it and I will always support it but the way it is proposed does not promise that the parliament's influence will be greater than it has been so far. Let's take it in a row. So three changes are proposed. One is that, in addition to independent, external, as a rule of the private audit house, the audit operations of the CNB are also carried out by the state audit. That means we have high confidence in our national audit. That means we don't have enough confidence in independent audit houses. The assumption requires serious action, requires confirmation that our state audit has every assumption that it is performing a professional audit in the business, in the operations of the CNB. If there is and we as advocates have not been given from this bill any assurance that there is, no sufficient confirmation that I have for this serious type of work to be done, which does not mean that it cannot be acquired. But it would be important if we knew there was. Another thing would also be important to assume that the independent audit houses which have so far carried out audit tasks cannot have our trust in something justified. The suspicion that they are external and independent must be confirmed. This way, our belief will be based only on the fact that we trust the state more than not the state. Why? In a number of other places, MOST colleagues argue that we can't do that, because even the state can't trust where there's no trust. In a series of elements. The second thing, therefore, is that the second proposal for the Croatian National Bank reports should come to the Assembly. I agree with that. I have nothing against it, nor does our club have anything against the fact that the audit operations are also carried out by the state audit if there are serious assumptions about it and if there is a reasonable reason for that. I agree it's good for the reports to come to the Parliament. However, what good is the discussion of these accounts if we are in no way able to influence their content. We as a Parliament will be a pressure group which is a positive element of this debate, but what else, what more than that. We can no longer because of the fact that this kind of sovereignty has been transferred to the European Central Bank. We can't anymore, because the independence of the central bank, our national central bank, is protected. There's no telling what we can do, and there's some things we can do. And that's what I want to answer to our colleagues in their intentions that I'm not saying is she, that her intention is bad. But to stay on the surface it absolutely does. A much more productively respected colleague and colleagues would be that the Croatian Parliament, through its working bodies such as the Committee on Finance, conducts a continuous debate on matters from the CNB's section on monetary policy and its consequences. When was the last time we had that kind of debate in front of committees? We didn't have one. When did we have this debate on the topic of ninety-four years here? We didn't have one. When did we have a debate on the relationship between monetary policy and fiscal policy on the subject? We didn't have a place to argue. How can the relationship between monetary and fiscal policy regulate the issue of foreign debt and how can it be resolved? And what are the weaknesses of firm and fixed keeping to the course of the kuna, and is it possible to act more flexiblely in this regard? We didn't have that kind of discussion. Once a year, discussing reports that will go to the media, and they will not commit anyone to the Parliament is certainly not enough, and you will agree with me. Therefore, if we want to increase our influence, and I agree that we should increase it, then we should transfer it there to those places that no one can question, and that is the inalienable right of the board, and then the tide to discuss some issues and some issues openly. It's in our domain. It's our political responsibility. What is not ours, what belongs to the profession, what belongs to an inalienable true institution, let's not touch it. But what is our real issue of fiscal policy, monetary policy issue, development policy issue, debt and debt policy issue, deficit policy issue. Let us discuss this, and in this regard we have influence and we have our sovereignty. And looking for it is in a place where we cannot win it and where we are conflicting with the sovereignty of the institutions that should have this sovereignty. That's wrong. I'm gonna go back to this one more time. In average consciousness, especially when it comes to ignorance and absence, any debate may make someone spend on a journey of 115 000 kunas with huge money, and what if, thanks to monetary policy for 25 years, this country does not have any growth and fall and sinks in misery. Isn't it fairer to explain it to the citizens than to hold on to $115,000 for travel? What if the wrong reactions and late reactions in relation to the franc cost many of our citizens, and we do not want to discuss it, nor the State Review can discuss it in any way by fellow Panenic. Then the question arises whether we're doing the right thing or not? So, if you want to increase the role of the Parliament, you have us as partners and allies but by a different procedure, not a ritualized discussion from whom no one will have a headache for it because they know that it is independent and that we can't do anything about it. What we can do is discuss issues and problems that are relevant and which are in our power, which are policies. I will repeat once again, whether monetary, whether fiscal, whether developmental, whether debt policy, whether deficit policy or anything on the fifth or sixth when it comes to the sector. We can discuss this, but we have the impression that we're going to compromise the autonomy of the institutions we can't do that. Finally, as far as shortening is concerned, limiting the mandate to the 2nd term tour, we have nothing against it, although the much more significant thing than that is the question this House is choosing? What kind of HNB policy this Parliament wants us to have, which is viewed through the choice of people. And in the end, colleagues from the MOST will think that we object to them from any bad intentions, we don't object to them. They, like us, feel that some institutions do not use independence in the right way. And that behind that independence there are practices that are not justified. Not only when it comes to the salary level of what my colleague Maras was talking about. Well, we could do that, for example. and look at the Constitutional Court. Why does the Constitutional Court have an assistant waiter's salary higher than some middle-ranking person in the state's attorney's office? And is that necessary? And we're all at our disposal and we can see that it's also available to us and we can see that the state's attorney's office is struggling to do its job at all. Why can the CNB have decisions that, by which they will have internal subsidies for their own private loans? Well, that's what a lot of people would like, but I can't. If you want to discuss such issues, it makes sense, but much, much more make sense what I said at the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2877	I thank my esteemed colleague, Milorad Pupovac. We have 11 signed up for replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2878	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Pupovac, the fact that you have been in this Parliament longer than my colleague Panenić and we in MOST, and the fact is that the Croatian people have been after the Parole Croatian rifle on the Croatian shoulder for centuries, the Croatian wallet in the Croatian pocket. The fact that in your parliamentary action you were in one piece and in power, the fact that about this syntagma and that password that the Croatian people were looking for in the Croatian pocket unfortunately monetary policy did not do well because the wallets were empty. So you've been in Parliament longer than Panenic and me and us from MOST. We in this case absolutely and only ask that this proposal be equal to the CNB in its reports which I agree with in part when the revision gives us, other reports of what is visible, illegality in public procurement in a number of other examples that we have done here in the last half of the year on the table, the absolute state's attorney and the institutions have done nothing. Monetary policy is visible, you're a bigger expert, obviously you're both more financial and written, but monetary policy is visible that it's lost sovereignty, that we don't have a sovereign monetary policy. It is visible but the fact that you were in power during HDZ and Sanader. And I'm sorry that we only entered here half a year ago and that we're trying to make changes and that we're trying to listen in this first reading of these reasons and all we're asking is the equality of the CNB to other state institutions and, of course, to all other companies owned by the Republic of Croatia. No less or less. And monetary policy has lost its sovereignty and this is visible from the results... of the financial writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2879	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Bull for his replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2880	Dear counterpart Bulj, when it comes to the participation of the SDSS in the poor of Croatian governments, we had a clear agenda in the mandate that needs to be done for Croatia. Among other things, even when monetary and fiscal developments are a general development aspect of the country. However, as you have probably gained experience and if you have not won, and you will see that participation in power does not guarantee you the ability to do everything you think you need to do. And I'll tell you something else that's our common heritage for the past 20 years, and in those 20 years, so much has been done to change. That only by listening better to one another and by spreading a kind of better understanding and agreement on what needs to be done can things change. By transferring responsibility to others and by not listening to others in this regard, they will in no way allow it to be done. You are now in a position to have this kind of law in the Parliament. We tell you what are the advantages of these laws and tell you what are the weaknesses of these laws. If you don't listen to what's heard, we don't say that all the remarks are unfounded or founded, then of course you'll get into a situation where tomorrow someone's gonna tell you what you're telling us you've been in power, and you haven't done anything but cosmetic changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2881	I thank my esteemed colleague Pupovac for his reply to the replica. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Pernar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2882	My esteemed colleague, Pupovac, I had the opportunity to listen to you exhibit and how you said the sentence after sentence I was amazed. A Serbian representative could hear messages that are unfortunately not heard by Croatian representatives. Of the people who were portrayed as traitors, Chetniks and all other epithets, Mr. Pupovac has shown in his own words that he is more patriot than 90% of the people sitting in this House. I am amazed, astounded by the facts he has said, which I have been repeating as a parrot for the past five years, a fundamental question, the issue of monetary policy is not at all touched or intended to touch. The issue of monetary sovereignty without which our country is not at all the sovereign state of Mr. Pupovac has touched and thus stood at the threshold of our country's defense of sovereignty. He did something that the HDZ and MOST colleagues did not do with their proposal or intend to do with it. Mr. Pupovac thus deserved my respect and admiration for having the courage to say the facts of which he escaped as the devil from the incense. He said it is much more important what monetary policy is by the CNB than whether it will have two mandates or three mandates there, whether it will spend 100,000 kunas on the road or 50 thousand kuna on the road. I'm sorry that the rest of the Parliament is unable or must not understand what Mr. Pupovac said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2883	I thank you for the replica of my colleague Pernar. The reply to the replica, the esteemed colleague of Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2884	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Pernar I am one of 151 MPs in the Croatian Parliament, and regardless of which lists I am selected, I see myself as a representative of the Croatian Parliament, as a Croatian representative. And regardless of who, how and where I wrote about me, spoke about me either today, either 5 or 20 years ago, I am who I am, like the rest of my colleagues, 8 representatives of the national minorities and two other representatives of the SDSS. For us, all topics are relevant, and for us all the questions that we are discussing are our questions. And that's what's an integral part of our policy. When it comes to monetary policy, it is only one of the instruments that can be done good or bad for the country's economic and social status, and it is not alone nor enough instrument for what needs to be done in our country when it comes to facing the fact that for 20 years we have a permanent stagnation and that we have no growth. And we've been poor for 25 years while a number of people are getting richer and richer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2885	I thank you for your reply to the replica of the esteemed colleague Pupovac. The next call came from a esteemed colleague, Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2886	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Pupovac, in his presentation, you stated my name that I was afraid that some lex Panenić would eventually come from this, which I think should certainly not be because I am just a small member, a small supporter of the idea of a small party representing the interests of the small people that we have here and here are gathered and we are trying right through our discussions to open up issues that are of interest to all citizens in Croatia. Every citizen as well as any member of any family is interested in any kuna, is interested in how it is managed, what will be done and that one kuna will result in the greater gain for Croatian society. So when I look at and actually listen to you and watch you point your finger is actually pointing towards the State Audit, trust or not trust in the external audit. Of course, each of them has its advantages and its shortcomings. One of the advantages of the State Audit is that it has institutional knowledge that can compare different institutions, which can give the right criteria. Of course, I also respect external auditors who have their knowledge, who have their own breadth and who certainly contribute to their audit reports the quality of work of the institution itself. What you would refer to also warned about working during this time of the CNB, the council of governors and all members, I would also like them to contribute to the improvement of Croatia to become our most esteemed experts, to become our candidates, members and the Council of the European Central Bank later. I think it's a good way, not only to have an impact on the work of our central bank but also on the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2887	I thank my colleague Panenic for his replica. The reply to the replica, dear fellow Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2888	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Panenic, so no one smart enough to be against your attitude to protect every national kuna, every public money, and then at the CNB. But what I needed to tell you is that it won't stop the flow of state money in the huge flows that's happening from our country because we have this kind of consolidation of monetary, fiscal and overall policy, that it won't stop the fact that we're stagnation of our economy because we've been blocked in the design of our economic policy for decades and that it won't stop the growth of inequality among our citizens because we're going to save in one or another place some lip or some kuna. That's what I'm trying to tell you. And that's the lack of this proposal we're discussing. So let's go deeper, get more thorough, then there'll be a point in discussing the CNB as well as any other institution in the country. So, it's going to work out that we're going to save something, and actually some more serious, more significant benefit to the citizens we're not going to make. Let's open a debate about this second one, and then your debate will make sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2889	I thank my esteemed colleague Pupovac for his reply to the replica. Next, Mr Ivo Lovrinović reported for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2890	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Dear Representative Pupovac, my words of praise even though you are a university professor from an area that is not an economy that you first pointed out the problem of monetary policy, a monetary credit policy in which this House has never discussed in your word. The institutions of this country were obviously dealing with less important matters, and these issues remained forbidden issues, forbidden topics of Croatian economic policy and in some ways debate in this House. That's why it's good to hear things like this. And I'm interested in your opinion, the governor of the CNB comes to keep the exhibit here, most of the time his deputies came to talk about the position of the institution towards us representatives and previous compositions, and even those deputies were very proud to leave the session when they didn't like the atmosphere, which says that the real government is actually there, not here. What happens if we here in Parliament don't adopt a report from the governor of the CNB which I assume will happen soon because it's not regulated by this law. You take the CNB Act, you don't know, you don't even know about these changes. So that's why colleagues and colleagues from MOST while it's a good time, that's not an emergency procedure, so someone from the SDP put it on the Finance Committee, I mean, colleague Maras, we solve this issue because it's not known if it works badly here, and it's doing bad how it's going to resign, is that his first moral act, ethically or is there a procedure? Is she going from the Finance Committee or will it be prescribed to amend the new HNB Act? So what do you think about that? We don't have any side effects, and you talked about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2891	I would like to thank my colleague Lovrinović for his reply to the replica of the esteemed colleague Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2892	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Lovrinovic, it is not unusual that any possible consequences of our debates in the Assembly, according to a report submitted by the governor or by one of his deputies, will not produce action or by the policies of the CNB. Therefore, we cannot even ask our colleagues to include it because they would face decisions made elsewhere and that we have made elsewhere. We'd have to change them, and we couldn't make those changes. What we can do is that our debate is some kind of awareness of policy, and that's the good part of what colleagues suggest, that this report will not go as it has been before, and I'm going to tell you the same thing, where the governor rightly warned about what would happen, but we didn't listen to it, and then the government didn't listen to it, so neither did the one responsible for fiscal policy nor the ministry. So, to be honest with the whole thing and to be differentiated, there was an opportunity when the representatives of the National Bank warned. I was sitting out there somewhere, but not a lot of people listened to that. So what is possible and what are our powers is that the bodies of Parliament and their mechanisms begin to discuss important policies in this country. In this case it is monetary, it is fiscal policy, it is development policy in general economic policy. And that would be good if the President of the Parliament initiated the responsibility of the clubs or the chairman of the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2893	I thank my esteemed colleague Pupovci for his reply to the replica. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2894	Thank you very much, Mr. Pupovac. In your discussion, you mentioned what really matters. So this law, I believe, has no ambition to solve these problems either, but it is as if you are crying out that these problems are being put before the Croatian Parliament and that we are also talking about monetary and fiscal policy and that we are essentially touching the right topics. I support this law and I believe that in the end you will also support it because of what, no matter what is not essential, I would say the everyday life of our people will change it will at least bring back one part of the feeling of people that everyone in this Croatia is the same, that transparency should be worth everything and that someone can't say I don't care when someone objectes to it. And the Croatian Parliament and Croatian MPs have objected to people in the CNB for some of the things they have done over the past years. And nothing happened to anyone. And what Mr. Lovrinović is saying, what will happen when the report is not supported here and if the CNB report is not supported. So it would be for me no matter what the law says morally of these people to thank, to say we have no confidence in those who appointed us and name new people. Well, it doesn't have to be in the law. We have also given up one part of the sovereignty of the CNB in the EU accession process. After all, we are heading towards the monetary union, towards the euro. And this story about monetary policy is a little late. '93, '94. It was the right time for us to decide whether to support the policy that has been met, I would say to the company and trade policies in the Republic of Croatia or to the production policies. Unfortunately, back in the '90s, we gave the trade championship compared to production. Now we're doing the same thing with income tax. It's a real debate that's waiting for us here not to fit the sales chains with income tax on what MOST and HDZ are doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2895	I thank my colleague Maras for the replica. The reply to the replica, dear fellow Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2896	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Maras. I agree with you that this bill will strengthen Parliament's powers in relation to the CNB but only in terms of a more authorised pressure group and nothing more. And the matter will only depend on how many skills and how much commitment in the debate we individually as MPs will have and to create an impression of the exchange of arguments whose arguments are stronger and stronger but not more than that. If you think that's enough, okay, maybe it's for starters and some minimum we have to go from. But I would once again go back to what I said in the debate and what I told my colleague Lovrinovic, the Parliament has additional mechanisms as it can be done, not waiting for the report to come once a year. He has his own bodies, he has his own committees, he has experts with whom he can discuss everything he considers relevant. And at the very least, that's why we're paid, and that's why we have committee presidents who have a little more opportunity to work than the average representative. And that's our job, and that's where we'd be able to do what we don't normally do or fail to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2897	I would like to thank my colleague Pupovac for his reply to the replica. The next call came from a distinguished counterpart, Nincevic-Lesandric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2898	Thank you, Vice President. My dear colleague, Pupovac. You said earlier in your individual presentation that, i.e. you proposed to MOST that we should have introduced, that the working bodies were having a discussion on the part-line and work of the CNB, and that you suggest that a debate be held in the Parliament on the relationship between monetary fiscal policy. You are if I haven't been wrong here for 13 years in Parliament, so I don't understand how it's possible that in 13 years you could never impose this topic and the only job we're doing here is just discussing, so we're discussing. And you couldn't have put in a topic that was so important. Here I am really looking for an answer to that question. And secondly, I also thank you when you transfer it to the Most after years of Parliament because you obviously recognized that we are the only ones who can and spend what we are right now and we are proving today's debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2899	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ninčević-Lesandric, on the replica. The reply to the replica, dear fellow Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2900	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, you being in the House for the first time and being here for a few weeks might be a reason that you haven't heard me talk about it in 16 years. First you said I didn't talk about it. The first and basic tool of the MPs is to speak about what is considered relevant, not to be silent and to open questions and raise problems. And secondly, I've never been in a situation where I can influence the government policy your club can influence, which the gentleman said is small and small. Then what would I say about my club and my party? You're a party in a coalition where I'm alone with enormous power. And instead of focusing that enormous power on the topics that I'm talking about, you've directed them at this, to a kind of cosmetic change. That's my point. I understand that this is difficult and that it cannot be negotiated in a month before the government is formed but it must be the government's policy. That's my point. So listen and turn to yourselves, do not call others, for you will be called.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2901	I thank my esteemed colleague Pupovac for his reply to the replica. The next call came from a distinguished colleague of the Grmoi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2902	Your Honor, Vice President. I was going to say the same thing as my colleague Ninčević, all those who sat here in the Parliament open these topics and I think that this bill is a great opportunity to open the topic of monetary policy, i.e. monetary and fiscal policy relations. And in addition, this bill provides for a vote on the CNB report which will also open the debate, and if nothing will be sent, Professor Lovrinovic has set up what will happen to the governor if the opinion of this high house is negative. It will be a kind of message of what monetary policy is being conducted in Croatia and what we here in the Parliament think about it. I think it's important, I think it's important what the Frank Association does, you think it's just some kind of pressure tool and it changes certain things in Croatia. It is clear to all that banks in Croatia have done illegal business and that one who should regulate the work of banks acting non-transparently, who does not give insight into the information required by the Association Frank will even go to the Administrative Court against the Attorney General for Information just so that they do not give that information. How they'll make banks do business transparently and legally, and they don't want to act transparently themselves. I think we're talking about the right things, these are essential questions, and we've just opened them up with this bill of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2903	I thank my esteemed colleague Grumoji for the replica. The reply to the replica, dear fellow Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2904	Thank you. Comrade Grmoy, you touched something and stayed in the area of the beginning of that touch. And what should get deeper is what you didn't do. If you say it's a start that will allow the committee's parliamentary debates and debates to take a deeper step and we'll try to make it so here and hopefully you'll be with us when that effort is manifested either in the tide, or in discussions by committees, then we'll say you've done tactically. And if it doesn't, then we won't recognize it as a tactics either, but as a little step that didn't have the courage to take the next series of small steps that would lead to the change that we need.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2905	I thank my esteemed colleague Pupovac for his reply to the replica. Next to the replica, a prominent counterpart, Alexic, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2906	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Pupovac, thank you for these words you've said because you've touched some important problems. The first thing you said in 93, 94 is very important because that year in payment traffic, a currency clause was introduced in legal affairs in the Republic of Croatia. It was introduced without any restrictions. I believe the CNB had its fingers in it and I believe it was she who pushed the currency clause into legal affairs in the Republic of Croatia. It is okay to push the currency clause into legal transactions, however, it is not fair that there are no restrictions on the currency clause. Therefore, it was necessary to limit the currency clause in long-term loans. It wasn't done and that's why we have the Frank case. The other thing is, you mentioned DORH. I am relatively disappointed with the work of the DORH, I last year reported to the Croatian National Bank in violation and Governor Vujčić because at my request they did not initiate a misdemeanor against the then Hypo Alpe Adria Bank, today Addico Bank. So I had to carry out the misdemeanor procedure on my own as hundreds of debtors did because the CNB didn't do its job. The CNB in its name has a word of folk. In my opinion, that word for CNB means almost nothing. It deals essentially only with protecting the business of Croatian banks, which are mostly owned by foreign banks. That has to change. I didn't realize that Pupovac was overly critical of MOST but I realized that he actually suggested that certain discussions should be launched and that the role of the CNB should be changed in the Republic of Croatia. We know that she must remain independent, but there are ways for her to behave a little differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2907	I thank my esteemed colleague Alexic for his replica. The reply to the replica, dear fellow Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2908	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Alexic. I can't disagree with you when it comes to whether cruelty, dogmaticity in the application of some policy like that. the exchange rate policy or euro-related policy or any other currency was flexible in the circumstances in which the interest of the economy, the interest of a large group of citizens, is imposed. And calling for flexibility in some elements is a sign of first reality and, on the other hand, a sign of responsibility to what produces as a negative consequence of rigid behavior, inflexible keeping either in the course policy, or in the savings policy or anything else. And as for the name of a lot of things we have in names that are ours, and it hasn't been for a long time. One who does not spread defitism because of it among people is responsible, but is trying to restore content by those names, and it is irresponsible that those names are used as a sign that we have something because it is called Zagreb, economic, or national, and we do not have a long time ago. I see you don't belong among these others like I don't belong alone. But you are among those who want to return some meaning and some content as I belong.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2909	I thank my esteemed colleague Pupovac for his reply to the replica. The next call came from a esteemed colleague, Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2910	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Pupovac, you took a historical discourse in your debate, so I can't look back on it either. So, you set up a dilemma about whether monetary policy, and above all a stable exchange rate of kuna is the cause of stopping development in the Republic of Croatia. I might ask a question like this whether such monetary policy is the result of other policies or whether it is really the cause of this as you say it is. In the 1990s, of course with the Homeland War, we decided to deal with privatisation. So, at that time, many companies are privatized, not to say the synonym for robbery. So, but according to legal methods, it came into private hands, but it's not a problem but it's simply destroyed whether because of incompetence, the administration that came either because of or aimed to lose value, to make it easier to privatise. So, at the moment we lost the industry, Osijek, I think he had 112 companies. There were dozens in Slatina, now they're gone. When we lost the industry, we headed for the import. We have based our development on consumption and trade, and it has simply been encouraged and borrowing of any public budget, whether borrowing citizens with mentioned currency clauses here, which, like this, seems to me to have been introduced because maybe the interest rate would be lower. However, after all of this, when citizens became over-indebted, when entrepreneurs rightly warned that exports on such foundations, with such a exchange rate, it is impossible, impossible to achieve, impossible to be competitive, we actually found ourselves in a situation where we crash a course of swearing which will be with citizens who have huge loans and even with public budgets along with the currency clause. So all the policies here are as important as you say, it's not just monetary policy. All the policies that precede then that monetary policy could take place with its real measures. Here's the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2911	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Sagar, for the replica. Replication response, dear fellow Puopvac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2912	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, it's not like I'm going to say it one more time, it's not either, or. So either a stable course or a completely unstable course. It was always a matter of at least people who were seriously considering setting a course to be flexible enough, benefiting from other industries, other sectors that haven't benefited from it for decades, such as exporters. But that's the thing that we have our share of responsibility. So, the fact is that in our activities in the Parliament, in our activities in the parliamentary bodies, we haven't found enough ways and enough mechanisms to bring about a serious debate and put enough pressure on these things to modify themselves. I've listened to you many times about it, but until someone comes along and brings a story and organizes a debate, it'll all remain on this as it is today. And so I repeat once again there are no other places besides the regular work of our parliamentary committees and thematic sessions that should be much more. I was in one term president of the Committee on Foreign Policy. We had five or six thematic sessions with regular reporting. When were thematic sessions of other constituencies? Unfortunately, it's rare who had it. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities could have occasionally, but this vital, state-owned ministry, or committees, also miss the opportunity to have it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2913	Thank you. The next call was received by Mrs. Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2914	Here's Mr. Pupovac, I thank you for this initiative when you said there should be more debate on monetary and fiscal policy, because surely to find and hear all sides and everyone here who has been discussing actually say one thing, and that we all want to live better and better and to make our gross domestic product as good as possible. But what I don't agree with is when you said we've been sinking into misery for 25 years. The fact is that we who come from some parts of Croatia felt a much stronger war, a much stronger restoration. Well, here's proof of both Vukovar and other parts of Slavonia, Korduna, Like, Banije and others who are much harder to deal with these economic movements, and finally this demographic image that's happened lately. However, it should be said that a large price is paid to come now and to this state of regular life, i.e. when the gross domestic product is repaired and not to be criticised, perhaps only monetary policy because here is a colleague, Žagar, mentioned what would have happened if it had been done to some sliding course that would lead to problems not only Swiss people but then all of our citizens who are in charge of the euro or in some other currency. So listen to all the participants and really take care of everyone because the truth is never so unequivocal.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2915	I thank my esteemed colleague Peric on the line. The reply to the replica, the esteemed colleague of Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2916	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, your understanding of the position that committees should play a more active role is something that certainly means a good guess in the work and committees you run and all the other committees in the Assembly because it is one of the weakest places in the functioning of the Parliament. We pay great attention to whether someone is coming to this hall or not to come to this hall, and in fact, how the working bodies work for us, as committees do, it is one of the key issues of the work of parliamentary representatives. Because it depends on what comes and won't come to these benches. It depends on how and how this debate will be conducted and how much Parliament will have the opportunity to say what it thinks about certain issues in society by calling on people with whom it can be consulted. And as for the issues of our disagreement, we are not here to spread defetism. I fully agree with you, and I am the last person who would like to participate or contribute to that. But unfortunately, the fact is that not only in areas affected by the war, go 30 km east of Zagreb and go to the front of Vukovar, so you will see what is the situation. Go to the Gorski Kotar and you'll see what the situation is. In other words, there is no growth and there is no development, there is no competitiveness towards the world and there is an increase in inequality and poverty. Poverty is a huge increase in our country. For what? Well, not because people have decided to live in poverty but because an increasing number of people are destined to live in poverty. The consequence of that is some policy. And we need to discuss these policies.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2917	I thank my esteemed colleague Pupovac for his reply to the replica. This ended the replicas after this debate and we move on to the next debate on behalf of the Living Wall Club and the Alphabet of Democracy, a distinguished colleague Ivan Pernar appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2918	Thank you, Chairman. I'd like to say that this debate about the CNB Act reminds me of the Matrix movie. In the movie Matrix the main character of this Neo (Keanu Reeves) has a choice between taking a red pill and a blue pill. The red pill represents going into reality and looking at the actual picture, and the blue pill represents staying in an illusion, continuing life in a lie. In that movie, I even tried to look for it, says Morpheus Neu says this is your last chance, after this there's no going back, if you take the red pill. But he says if you take a blue pill, the story ends, you believe whatever you want to believe. In the end, he says remember, I'm offering you the truth and nothing else. What's this about? Part of people want to live in a lie, part of people want to believe what the media is telling them, what the political elite is telling them and what HDZ and SDP are telling them. And now there's this other person who tells people what they're saying to you on monetary policy is actually about distracting you from the central issue, and the central question is explained by Larry Hannigan Australian in 1971 in his book "I want the country +5%". In it, he explained that if all the money is a loan, and in our country it certainly is, so money only comes as a loan, the credit cannot be paid back because the money for the payment of interest does not exist. So as a state or as a society, we raise a certain amount of credit, let's call it A, and we have to go back to that plus interest B. And we only have the principal, so we only have the A. And we can't bring back the A plus B equals C, we can't bring back the sum C, but we can only return the principal. But because of money draining or sucking money out of our country, we can't do that either. A fellow Pupovac tried to point out that it doesn't matter if someone has two mandates or five seats in the CNB. As far as I'm concerned, if the governor and his advisors were to conduct the right policy, I'd let them spend it there until their death. And on the other hand, if they're running the wrong policy, I'd replace them right now. So I think that limiting the mandate is not really about the essential issue at all, which is whether they're doing well or not, it's about some technical matter. Our country's problem is that the CNB has been a exchange office since '94. Believe it or not what Mr. Pupovac sees fellows of the rest of the Parliament mostly miss to see. And what's this about? Instead of loaning HNB to our business banks, our business banks must be in debt outside for foreign currency, that currency they acquire, for example. The euro in the CNB is transformed into kunas and therefore all loans are tied to the currency clause even if we received the formal loans in kunas. Now, in such a model where our country is directly dependent on a foreign source of money, so the monetary sovereignty we always have to pay back to foreign lenders more money than we borrowed, so this cycle of money entering the circulation has always and that return cycle of money coming out of circulation. And it's always coming out more than released because of the effect of interest, which is why we're in debt slavery. One Nostradurus he wrote on the subject of money, he wrote has his blog, he said it like this, it's like having a football on a football walking ant and as the ant moves so you football rotate and the ant doesn't get where the exit is, where the end is. He sees it spinning in circles, but he doesn't know what's going on. The same way our people spin on that ball like a bat in a cage and just don't see a way out of that maze. This maze has led us to over 300 thousand blocked, thousands of completed properties, and has led us to believe that imported goods are cheaper than domestic goods. But the most interesting thing is that we in this system don't owe ourselves to buy some extra stuff, it's just money in itself debt. So, in order to just exchange what we already have money, we have to start in debt. There's also one thing that's pretty interesting, and it's about our money. Namely, our money, our kuna currency is not produced in Croatia, so when you look at the bottom of the bill, the bottom says 100 kuna of OeBS Austria. And I asked once, i.e. The question has been raised in general why our money is not being produced in Croatia, they said money is not worth producing in our country. Okay. Then they noticed in the dorms that they drank Hungarian water bottled, then the answer is that, so the water is not worth domestic selling or import goods are cheaper. Then here's the ten kuna bill if you look at the bottom of it says... The Germans, so our money is being produced in Germany and Austria, someone is making money to print that money, and we're being stupid and incompetent, and we're not able to print our own money ourselves. So this whole policy you've been spending for 20 years is one disaster, one twilight of democracy because it's clear from the plane that whoever has the power of money or you depend on money, because the state itself cannot create it, is essentially the one who rules the country. And then we find ourselves in a situation where people, for example, Some have a woman whose annual salary is not enough for one month's loan war but she successfully serves that loan and then they say that to see that policy is good, you see that loans can be returned from each other to the general. However, clearly from the plane that the total amount of credit in this system is not repayable and that the result is inevitable privatisation. So we're not privatizing the property to put it into function as it's trying to suggest, but the property is privatized under the duress of a lender. So one HEP that has two billion kunas, we need to privatize it. And then you keep showing some of the Cooper complex there, see, it's untapped, etc. means ultimately, as I asked former Finance Minister Marić, i.e. I ask him, well said over time the debt will grow it's undeniable due to the effect of interest, just sketching your situation. This government as well as the previous lies to the citizens, and they lie to them because they run double accounting. What does double accounting mean? You have budget revenues and expenditures, revenue is, say, 110 billion kuna, and expenditures are 120 and then they say the deficit is 10 billion, for example, but expenditure based on the repayment of loans, so next year the 27 billion kuna we have to pay back, the state doesn't count on budget expenditure. And if you have a budget or a person or a firm, you have expenses that you have, or expenses per loan, they make you a real expense. You have to count them in. However, this puppet government does not include them but puts it separately and thus hides that the total deficit in the 27 billion kuna budget that goes to loans plus deficits means at least 37 billion kuna. And if you were to understand, in fact, the extent to which the state is in which the state is, or the state's or whatever the state's debt is, it would be clear to you from the plane that this government is actually one puppet show and that Parliament is one Muppet show, and that the final point of view is also about privatisation of both the Labour Act and the CNB Act and the Law of Mandatory Relations, or the Currency Clause, will have someone else, and not us. I'm shocked that my SDP colleagues are defending this indefensible policy that is leading us to ruin unequivocally, saying that if the course of God drove off to what would happen to those who are in loans. Well, it's clear from the plane that the first thing to do is to remove the currency clause and untie those loans from the foreign currency. Someone will say, that's impossible. Ladies and gentlemen, we had a loan in Swiss francs, the state once turned them all into Euros, one regulation, all these loans are now in euro, none of them are in Swiss anymore. The banks got a commitment. In the same way, banks could be told that they wanted to, the directive to turn all loans into kunas. She could have, but she didn't, and it's not because this government is in the service of banks, not our people. These banks are like 98% foreign-owned cases. It is your duty as elected representatives of citizens to stand in this debate on the side of citizens, to say that monetary policy is wrong, that it is not normal for the state to depend on private banks to finance its own, when it has its own Central Bank that has the power to create money and that it is not normal for us to receive in kunas that our loans are in foreign currencies. And yes, it's not normal for import products to be cheaper than domestic products. But this monetary policy has done it. This will tell you all the monetaryists, Mr. Lovrinović looks, listens, knows everything I say but unfortunately you others are also looking at me and listening, even understand what I'm saying, I'm afraid, but I don't think you're ready to side with the obvious truth. Instead, you took a blue pill. And I understand why you did it because you don't have credit problems, your assets don't go to the drum and you're basically in life well, you don't care what course it is. You, many of you, will go skiing and vacationing, your children will have no problem looking for a job or have to go out of this country. You're nothing. You don't produce anything, you don't have to be competitive on some market, you're just excluded from real life, you live in Matrix, you took a blue pill, and you're fine. But unlike you, our citizens every day didn't want to force themselves to take a red pill, that's the moment when FINA blocks their account, when they sweep their last kuna, that's the moment when they convince themselves that they won't come, they're taking blue pills, but at one point there's a mirage, there's an intervention police coming, they're driving them out of the house and then they want to, they don't really have to accept the truth and that's that red pill. Unfortunately, the situation cannot be blamed only for you, the voters are also guilty. For 5 years I have been saying what I am saying, however, 95% of the citizens have voted for parties that do not speak about this problem, which is what this problem does not want to solve and the parties that support the policy that leads us to ruin. These cosmetic changes that the MOST is talking about where now I don't know will be seen how much Vujčić spent on skiing or how much he spends on material costs or how much they have wages are throwing sand into his eyes because it's about millions and at the same time billions are coming out. We have a situation that the gold reserves were sold at the moment the gold was least worth it. Yeah, why was the gold sold? You see, because the one who ruled the land said give us that gold, we will give you change and must obey it. And otherwise, I'm going to give you an example of one of my meetings with Governor Rohatinski near the hotel Dubrovnik, and I've been meeting him for almost five years after I touched him on one show on HRT where I answered the phone and I tell him, Mr. Rohatinski, you see that I was right and he tells me, Ivan, I've decided at least. So also this Governor Vujčić one day when he will be asked why he was implementing that policy he will tell you gentlemen I have at least decided about it and if it is not for him and if it is not for us who have decided it is time to ask ourselves who is the one who decides what our monetary policy will be and who it will benefit from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2919	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for the debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a respected counterpart, Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2920	Comrade Pernar, I must correct one of your allegations. In fact, Croatian banks are extremely credited to place credits, they are not tasked abroad to place loans to Croatian citizens. In fact, most of the loans were paid from the savings of Croatian citizens, so there are no foreign investors but investors in Croatian loans are Croatian citizens. So the Washington arbitration that the main investors are talking about is Croatian citizens, not strangers. So the euro loans are mostly from savings because most of the Croatian citizens' savings are in euro. Banks raise loans for kuna loans, for the part they cannot cover from savings and these loans are raised by the Croatian National Bank. So, the Croatian National Bank places loans to Croatian kuna credit banks. And as for Swiss, that's the worst part, we can talk about some relative loan but it wasn't a loan because again, the credit in Swiss was placed out of the euro and kuna so that the difference that wasn't covered by Swiss is about 70% through the off-balance sheet, forward contracts with the currency rate exchanged with the banks of mothers, and now in the conversion of CHF loans to the bank of the mother, there were 6.5 billion exchange rates without any tax. That's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2921	I thank my esteemed colleague Alexic for his replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2922	Well, there you go, Mr. Alexic, and what do you say? I'm listening to you and I wonder how you can't see that you're light and manipulated all the time and they're giving you a blue pill. The fact is that deposits come from loans rather than from deposits. 99% of citizens think that loans are issued out of savings, but savings or deposits are created by taking credit. Unfortunately, even in the book, the monetary policy of Ivan Lovrinovic was falsely set. Why is he telling you this? Because every kuna we have in our wallets is created by taking credit. So no one took credits, no state, no citizen or firm, we wouldn't have one kuna in our pockets. It's a reality that citizens don't know. The citizens think they didn't take loans, they wouldn't be in trouble. However, the fact is that no one has raised money in circulation at all because our monetary policy has defined money as a debt. There are a lot of documentaries on this subject, I recommend American dream, or American dream, book by Larry Hanning I want a country plus 5%, Money as a debut money as a debt. I can recommend my two books as well as how money and money mechanics came into existence. All of this is available on the Internet to any person who has any will to be informed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2923	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for his reply to the replica. Next to the replica, the esteemed colleague Bulj reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2924	Dear colleague Pernar, I'm not a financial expert like you, nor do I have financial literacy like you. As an ordinary man from the blue province, I listen to you very carefully, and indeed MOST has opened this topic. If it hadn't been for this proposal, you really wouldn't be able to talk like this. Yes monetary policy is bad, it brought into debt slavery to the Croatian people. That's my position I've repeated in the past term and five years and 10 years ago. Why is mine like a young man's dream when he went to the Homeland War to have a Croatian wallet in our Croatian pocket? That Swiss, the interest catastrophic, was proven by the Franak Association. All these are facts, all the words we know would not be like this to be in charge so much that foreign banks would operate in Croatia. So we have a process of what is Croatian that has suddenly become a side, at one point while the Croatian state is being created. But what are your key solutions? I've told you for the last time and I repeat once again I'm not a patriot by your standards, you say there are only a few patriots, 90% against patriots, that's what you said in your first presentation to us parliamentary representatives, that's by your criteria. Give solutions in writing and I will appreciate it, and basically this is the first reading, this will open discussions with the CNB Report, with the State Audit Report. And certainly this is just a step and direction where MOST wants to direct the work of the Croatian Parliament to be discussed and further we have the Pharaoh institutions that are bad ships with the Croatian Monetary Fund instead of monetary policy and otherwise other institutions to equalise those rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2925	I'd like to thank my colleague Bull for his replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2926	Mr. Bulj thank you for agreeing with me that monetary policy is bad, but your colleague Bozo Petrov made it clear we have no intention of changing that monetary policy. So you're saying she's bad, your supervisor says we have no intention of changing her and you've supported a government that has no intention of changing that monetary policy. And now you're telling me that Perner doesn't agree with her. Well, you also said that you disagreed with the then pact that creates refugees and the EU that turns us into slaves but the key detail, Mr. Bulj, is when you raise your hands. And what are our suggestions? So we've been yelling like parrots for the last five years that we need to cancel the currency clause on loans, turn everything into kunas, and that the state should be financed directly from the central bank. You care about pulling the weight like hell if we put it on the table you'd accept it. Gentlemen, don't kid yourself, everything we put on that subject on the table and we'll put in another reading you won't, because you know very well that the first reading can't even give an amendment, then you keep calling us every time there's a debate why you don't give the amendments, why you don't give the amendments and you know that the amendments in the first reading can't be given. And then I don't know if I'm stupid or if the citizens are stupid or the ones who keep suggesting it to us and they know it's impossible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2927	I thank my colleague Pernar for his reply to the replica. Next to the replica, the esteemed colleague of the Bunjac appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2928	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would therefore once again like to emphasise this valuable information that Agent Pernar said in his presentation, namely that the payment of the government debt is not shown in budget expenditures. So we have double accounting where one income and expenditure is current, and the other is debt repayment. And then when you look at the deficit only according to that first item, so income and expenditure turns out to be a deficit of 2% to 3% or, say, 6.7, 3, 4 or 6.7 billion kuna, and that doesn't prove to be a government debt payment of 20 billion kuna. Which means that the Croatian deficit is not 3% as they insist on showing us our finance ministers, but the deficit of the Croatian state is 25% of the annual income. So, a country that gives 25% of its debt payout budget, that state has practically already bankrupted only the moment when bankruptcy is going to happen similar to that in Greece. And that is why it is very important that if we cannot already raise awareness of our representatives on this problem to raise awareness of our citizens who believe this debate listen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2929	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac, for the replica. The reply to the replica of the esteemed colleague Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2930	Thank you, comrade Bunjac, for saying the Emperor is naked. The real numbers are hiding, the budget deficit shows I don't know it's 3%, so my people say it's less than 3%, so we couldn't be blackmailed and asked to sell out the whole country. Who are you kidding? If the deficit had been controlled, the IMF wouldn't be here to give us advice on what to do. However, in the end, if we had no problems with the spending side of the country's budget could raise citizens' standards, spending could be increased. But it's clear from the plane when you look at how much money he's going to pay off, and how much he goes to school, you'll see that ten times as much he's going to pay off the loan. And you'll see that it goes ten times less for the social community than it goes to bankers who have too much money anyway. And finally, although the debate is abstract in the theory of money regulation ultimately concerns the distribution of billions and that distribution in a way that 1% gets 90%, and 99% gets 10%, or simply gives rich people even more, it takes a little bit more what they have, and then they offer us some tax reform and what Maras waved with that piece of bread, the milk that he was telling the truth is actually that after these reforms, what's going to happen. I, as an agent, will have a higher salary, and before the election, my colleagues from the MOST said they would cut those salaries of MPs. Here is a menu that will increase, and for those who have low wages, the minimum wages will not be paid, and they will increase the price of everything. Why do you give people these blue pills all the time? Give yourself and them red. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2931	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for his reply to the replica. The next call came from a distinguished colleague named Majer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2932	I agree completely with my colleague Pernar, but I would like to warn you that as far as this change is concerned, our monetary policy is bad, change of Swiss franc into kuna, or euro. I know what it's like for those of you who have credit in Swiss francs because I, as head of the municipality of 16 years, have the same case that we have credit in Swiss francs for building a sports hall. And what happened? That on the request written by both the Governments of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Finance, we have not yet received an answer as to whether it is only a matter of natural persons and not legal persons regarding the change of the currency clause. So I'm saying that the same question is why it doesn't apply to legal persons as well as to change the currency clause from franc to euro.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2933	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mladen Hungarian, for the replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2934	Dear fellow MP, you're wondering why. Well, because the banks wouldn't let that happen. The banks simply allowed only a correction to the extent that torture could continue. If Lalovac hadn't fixed the course of francs, it would have become clear to everyone that the Emperor is naked, simply people wouldn't be able to repay the loans and say the currency clause has to be abolished and the system has to be reformed. However, Lalovec created this monetary acrobatic the apparent repayment of credit for a part of the citizens and left people's confidence in the system, kept them in the wet illusion that loans in total can be returned, that there is no need to change monetary policy. However, as you said, legal persons have been left at the mercy of not only local self-government, all others. And this government as well as the last living fucks for what people will live on. They don't care that for 30 years they'll have to tear their mouths off to give money to these lenders. But the essential question is that you're hunting for a course issue right now, but in this system of interest, it's not worth it by itself. So if someone pays the interest, that means someone else can't even make the capital. Because we get, say, 100,000 euros, we have to get 200 back. Those other 100 were never created. If I go back, if I raise 100 and I get 200 back, that means somebody else couldn't even get the principal back. Then those people who can repay loans, unfortunately, don't understand and then say what others don't pay back, and don't understand that those others could have returned at least their principal so they wouldn't have interest. This whole monetary system is a fraud. I appeal to all of you to read the book "I want the country plus 5%" you will realize that there is a global conspiracy aimed at our people, but everyone else on the globe under American domination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2935	I thank my colleague Pernar for his reply to the replica. With this, we've exhausted all the replicas in this debate. We move to the next debate on behalf of the Representatives' Club "Let's Change Croatia" and "The Power". Dear fellow MP Mr. Goran Aleksic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2936	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. For starters, I'd just like to invite Mr. Hungarian to bring me his loan contract, so I'll see if there's anything illegal about it. You can press charges like anyone else and take your money that's illegally charged. So much for that. But I need to see the contract first. So, in any case, I think it is commendable that the subject of amending the Law on the Croatian National Bank has been launched. The Croatian National Bank is metaphorically going to express a very sinful institution. In the end, I will talk about her sins, and in the beginning I will make some suggestions that this law may change even better. What is missing in the amendments to the HB Act are provisions on civil oversight of the CNB. Science doctor Dominik Vuletic, who otherwise doctored the EU law, drafted a proposal for provisions to introduce civil oversight of the CNB, and civil oversight of the CNB is extremely important for consumer protection. Because at this point in the CNB, no one is seriously concerned with consumer protection, but they are only dealing with consumer protection at some sort of formal level. Therefore, it is necessary to prescribe the position, work, authority and composition of a new council that would be called the Council for Civil Monitoring of the CNB. In addition, it is necessary to order the CNB to implement the basic objective of maintaining price stability, to give priority to measures that promote full employment. A member should be added to the CNB's council, perhaps two members who would have been representatives of the associations that stood out in consumer protection. It is not enough to be just some prominent person to be representatives of consumers, those who use Croatian banks' services the most. Of course, the Civil Surveillance Council must not affect the independence of the CNB and there is no choir about it at all. I wouldn't talk too much about that council right now. We will submit these suggestions to you in writing so that what counterpart Pernar said that they would only make amendments I advise that the written proposals to the proposer should be made before the amendment, because between the first and second readings are still possible and without amendments to the provisions of the law. Now I'd like to talk about the CNB's main sins and why it actually takes this Council for civil oversight of the CNB. First, the case “Switzerland, ” so the case“ Frank. ” If the CNB had been at the level of the CNB, it would have proposed, through the Ministry of Finance, to amend the Law on Mandatory Relations and would have limited the currency clause exclusively to the euro because it is known that the CNB protects the exchange rate from the euro at certain borders, and these limits have proved in history in such a way that the kuna actually appears as the most stable currency in the Republic of Croatia. The Swiss franc is advertised as a stable currency when placing a loan with that currency clause, and the truth is that the Swiss franc is actually the most unstable currency in Europe. Why? Between 1970 and 2003, the Swiss franc grew from the mark and the euro to 160%. The Swiss franc is a currency in which capitalists flee, in which capital generally runs in times of crisis. So the Swiss franc is one currency that is completely unstable and is completely free on the market. Only sometimes the Swiss National Bank limits its growth by some measures because its growth is damaging the Swiss economy. Therefore, such a single currency should never be allowed in legal transactions in the Republic of Croatia when it comes primarily to consumers but also to legal persons. So it's the first sin of the CNB. It could and had to prevent it from proposing legal changes because the fact is that the CNB has a significant impact on the laws concerning finance in the Republic of Croatia. She is in everything and always cooperates with the Ministry of Finance and her proposals often pass here in this House. The next thing, the next CNB sin is interest rates in legal affairs in the Republic of Croatia. So, I've already said it several times, but I have to repeat, before 1 January 2013, most of the credit agreements with variable interest rates of the Croatian bank agreed on an illegal way of changing interest rates. As early as 2013, we asked the CNB through the Franak Association to react and to prevent banks in illegal business. Unfortunately, instead of preventing them on its sites, the CNB had a prominent notice on the part concerning consumer protection in which it said that banks have the right to change interest rates by their administrative decisions. Therefore, something completely contrary to the provisions of the Law on Mandatory Relations in which it is clearly and loudly stated that the contractual act must be at the very least specific. In order to be quantifiable, the data on which the act is determined must be agreed. Therefore, until the ruling in the collective dispute in the case of "Franc" held that notice on its website and only after it was ruled that 7 out of 8 banks were illegally changing interest rates only then did the CNB remove that consumer protection notice. For this reason, in 2013, I personally signed a criminal complaint against the governor of the CNB and against the CNB. The State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia unfortunately rejected the criminal application. I was there for the hearing and I told them everything I knew about it, but they felt that the CNB was doing its job well and that there was no need for criminal prosecution. The same thing I repeated privately as a natural person last year, I reported to the Croatian State Attorney's Office because the CNB, headed by Governor Vujčić, did not want to act on my request to prosecute Hypo Alpe Adria Bank today's Addiko Bank because the bank did not agree with me the parameters for changing the interest rate, but was willing to determine them by interpreting changes to the Consumer Credit Act that entered into force on 1 January 2014. I'm waiting for what's going to happen now with that misdemeanor report. It's about a misdemeanor. The CNB had to respond to my request and had to prosecute Hypo Alpe Adria Bank. However, the CNB considers that Croatian banks still do not have to negotiate with us the parameters but that it is quite normal and quite normal for them to have chosen those parameters unilaterally in 2014 based on the founding elements of the interest rate, based on elements that are determined again by arbitrary bank decisions, based on illegal increased interest rates. Therefore, it is the second sin of the CNB, inaction, not treating banks that are obviously also in violation but also in one part against the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which damages them by illegally increasing interest rates. Furthermore, the conduct of the ruling in the collective case of the "Franc" verdict, although it does not have the form of returning something to the debtors, still there is one part of the verdict that says and orders banks not to act like that anymore. So it was decided that banks had negotiated an illegal way of changing interest rates but were also ruled that banks should no longer behave. Unfortunately, the banks were still acting that way. And after the verdict and today, they're acting like one. What did they have to do after the verdict? They actually had to return all interest rates that were larger than initially agreed, back to their initial sizes. The banks didn't do it. And the CNB acts like it doesn't see anything and doesn't hear anything. It's the third sin of the CNB. Furthermore, the next sin of the CNB is that during the conversion, it did not act independently against the illegal conduct of banks but only on the requests and warnings of the Franak Association, the CNB shyly and somehow warns banks not to behave illegally during the conversion. And the next thing they didn't do, they didn't provide us with information about which banks and how they broke the law, so we had to look for protection for the information commissioner whose protection we got. After that, the CNB again refuses to comply with its request, sues the Commissioner to the High Administrative Court, but the High Administrative Court gives Commissioners and the Franak Association and finally the CNB to provide information on what banks have and how they have violated the laws. That data is now familiar. But what the CNB discovered was just a drop of water in the sea. Because what the Croatian banks did during the conversion is the final sin of the CNB that allowed it. In fact, during the conversion, Croatian banks applied to euro credit calculations, new euro loans converting CHF loans, so in these calculations, the Croatian bank applied illegally increased interest rates from the euro loan. So they've repeated everything they've been doing for 13 years. They were allowed to use only initial interest rates from the same euro credit in those conversions because all other interest rates increased illegally by their decisions. And that is why I hope and expect that the euro will finally make the debtors aware that the entire banking sector has literally robbed them of a significant amount of money. According to some rough estimates, it's five billion kuna. So banks are in debt to euro loans due to illegal increases in interest rates of around 5 billion kuna. And precisely these illegal increases in the interest rates of the Croatian bank were used during the conversion of CHF credits into euro loans. Here are these CNB's sins and because of these CNB's sins, I express myself metaphorically, of course, it takes civil oversight of the CNB because consumers who use banking services know best which part and how the banks take them. There is also a question of entry and exit fees, entry fees according to my deep conviction are illegal, because it's about some 1.5.2% of the fees the client pays when he raises the credit, and that fee just says that it's some kind of bank cost, but it's not specific what the cost is. In Germany, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Germany abolished those entry fees and ordered the banks to pay all the entry fees back to the debtors. I see no reason for us to be different from one Germany. Germany needs to be our role model. The exit fees, they're also illegal to me because the bank makes money on interest. Where's the exit fee coming from now? For example. You have a 20-year loan and after 10 years you decide to pay the loan completely because you've come up with some money and the bank collects you 2.3% of the exit fee. It is agreed, I agree, the Consumer Credit Act even allows such things, but in my opinion it is illegal. And I have two judgments of the county courts where such exit fees have been declared worthless. So I believe that the future exists another new front of the fight to put banks on track. I always say that I'm a friend of the banks and Franak Association is a friend of the banks and the SNAGA party is a friend of the banks. Why? Because we want to get banks on the right track, they're on the wrong track, and I can thank that most of the CNB that let them be on the wrong track. So I insist that civil oversight be introduced in the form of a council for civil oversight and that this is then sharpened through amendments to the CNB Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2937	I thank my esteemed colleague Goran Aleksic for the debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by an esteemed colleague, Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2938	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Alexic, you can see that you have this German mentality, order, work and discipline in you. So I would say that my little heritage part of that mentality, but unfortunately, some who are in the centers of power don't have that mentality. In any case, what you were saying about CNB's sins we can metaphorically not count if there are seven, but somehow, there are five, six, seven, and that's why we obviously don't live in prosperity because obviously monetary policy is in the good part, let's say that it suffers the consequences of these mortal sins. Not only the CNB, but all the banks in some way, but there are exceptions. What I would particularly refer to is this citizen's surveillance, and I used to read something about it, and it seems to me it was on some portals. In my personal opinion, the idea is constructive because anything that contributes to greater openness and transparency in the governance of institutions, and this is an important institution of the CNB can be very, very useful. And we already have examples of some councils where civilian surveillance is and I don't see why from idea to realization would be some kind of big problem if there was political will because I believe that openness in governance of such an important institution and any kind of extra surveillance can only be useful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2939	I thank you for the replica of my colleague Vuksanovic. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Alexic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2940	Thank you. Dear colleagues, thank you for these kind words you've given me. I must point out that the introduction of the Civil Surveillance Council certainly does not affect the independence of the Croatian National Bank. And in my opinion, and I trust Dr Vuletic, who convinced me, who well knows the EU rights, such a provision would not be contrary to any directive or to the annexes of the directive. So it's only up to us to decide or not to decide on one such civilian surveillance.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2941	I thank my colleague Alexic for his reply to the replica. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Maro Kristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2942	I thank the chairman. My colleague Alexic, I actually, on behalf of the MOST Club, want to thank you for supporting this bill of ours. I also want to commend your debate, I think that it went in one direction in which all the representatives in the Croatian Parliament should be discussed, you were very constructive and concrete, you had suggestions and we will certainly consider your suggestions through this second reading. In your presentation, you listed a whole series of sins committed in a certain way by the Croatian National Bank in its business, and this justifies the need to introduce supervision primarily of the State Audit Office and then, of course, if it is possible not to disrupt that particular, institutional independence of the Croatian National Bank and of the civil oversight council that you are proposing. So I commend, very well, and you know the Rules of Procedure, unlike those who refer to amendments, you want to change things through debate, it's very commendable. And here's the second reading I'm expecting a dialogue with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2943	I thank my esteemed colleague, Kristic, for the replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Alexic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2944	I have to do it again, thank my colleague for his commendation. I must repeat once again that we of the Franak Association have always wanted to work with the government and wanted to cooperate. Now that I am party to the SNAGA and this party wants to co-operate with both the government and the opposition. Our goal here is to work together for a better society, not to fight, that's my opinion that not everyone has to agree with. But if we were to be constructive, if we were to really propose the right things, solutions, even if it were stupid, we would certainly contribute far more to democracy and better society and the improvement of our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2945	I thank my esteemed colleague Alexic for his reply to the replica. The next call came from a distinguished colleague of the Shkibol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2946	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Mr. Aleksic, you have dealt very concisely with these facts and I sincerely hope that the government will have hearing and some facts and implement them. However, one fundamental question is raised and the essential question is in whose interest then is the governor of the National Bank. Whether it works in the interest of large capital and foreign entities or it works in the interests of the peoples and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. He is set there to work in the interest of Croatian people and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, not in the interest of foreign banks, which are 97% in Croatia. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2947	I'd like to thank you for your replica and distinguished colleague, Marina Skiboli. Reply to the replica, dear colleague Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2948	Well, I've said what the sins of the Croatian National Bank are, these are also the sins of the governors and of the current and all the former governors. In whose interest does he work? He and they are currently working exclusively in the interest of large capital and in the interest of the stability of the monetary system in the Republic of Croatia. It is true that the monetary system in the Republic of Croatia is relatively stable. However, the way the CNB should work is that it should work in the interest of all, therefore, compromise. You can't allow what banks allow to put all the risks of their business on clients. So the bank in the Republic of Croatia never risks. Why? High interest rates cover losses on bad loans, forward currency-rate contracts cover exchange rate differences ending with mothers' banks. And finally, he's trying to get the owner to make the maximum and the client makes the minimum. I will only point out that between 2005 and 2014, the net profit of Croatian banks was 32 billion kuna. And in the first half of this year, the gross profit of Croatian banks is 3.2 billion kuna, i.e. 160% more than in the same period last year. This is all about the role of the CNB in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2949	I thank my esteemed colleague Alexic for his reply to the replica. Next to the replica, a distinguished colleague, Ivica Musk, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2950	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. I know you've gone all the way to that part of the job, the People's Bank issue and the French loan. So I'm asking myself a question when we couldn't do a review for 20 years in our banks and this civil initiative that you are or surveillance as you say in the People's Bank is probably running a lot of water to come. We're neither Germany nor Switzerland, I don't know if there's any there, but it would be a good idea to keep an eye on it. And I don't know why it was allowed in our people's bank to lend loans in francs if we tied to the euro, for one currency then it could be given in dollars and in dinars and I don't know what currency. I think they were doing this unseriously and that this bank, the People's Bank, has allowed all the lenders to sort of pour out our people and take their money. In the end, we pay certain people who sit at the National Bank to keep accounts and banks to especially account for the National Bank because each man is not an expert in monetary policy, so he can certainly make a mistake in those small amounts of interest they want to charge. Of course, it's the People's Bank's fault for all these failures and what you've done so far in the franc I think it's quite one good way and I hope that most people will be free of these interest rates and we simply see that the state has come into one problem where they can't anymore, people can no longer return those interest rates and if 300 thousand and more people are done it's just a sign of work, the seriousness of the People's Bank that I find guilty of all this happening in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2951	I thank my esteemed colleague, Micic, for the replica. And a reply to the replica, dear colleague Alexic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2952	Well, like I said, why civil surveillance wouldn't that civilian surveillance be doing audit work, of course. He would primarily deal with consumer protection, so the protection of bank clients. This can normally also be extended to the protection of legal entities. Unfortunately, as I said in my debate, the CNB did nothing to protect the other side but did everything to protect the banks in their business. And that's why we need that civilian surveillance. And why was the Swiss franc allowed? Well, I believe it's first of all an inert. Unfortunately, in many institutions in the Republic of Croatia, a large number of people work by initiative and don't think about what would be good and what wouldn't be good. Unfortunately, those of us who took loans with the Swiss franc currency clause at that time were not aware of the risk. However, the CNB was very aware of these risks, besides Governor Rohatinski warned that the Swiss could grow 18% compared to the kuna. And then it was actually supposed to give those risks a contractual warning to the debtors, not enough to talk about it in the media. The Austrian National Bank has ordered banks to warn future debtors that the Swiss currency clause will cause a total of more than 20 risks that may have serious consequences for them in the future if they raise a loan with the Swiss franc currency clause. And that's why there's almost no such credit for consumers, there's almost all the business loans there. But I guess entrepreneurs know why they're taking these loans. So the inert is the main reason and civil surveillance could turn that inert into action.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2953	I thank my esteemed colleague Alexic for his reply to the replica. And we have another replica in this debate, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2954	Thank you very much. Through the Civil Initiative, through the Franak Association, you proved that the CNB was based now and on judgments against the law. That the eighth sin that the mortal sin obeys foreign banks is that there are no protected citizens or interests of the Republic of Croatia in monetary policy in all aspects that you have listed in the case of Franak, in the case of interest, in the case of everything that has happened. It's inconceivable that in other countries there was our neighborhood that the bank behaves this way to the CNB. You have basically opened your eyes to everyone, and especially to those who were in charge of the institutions of the Republic of Croatia to protect this behavior of the CNB. It's not the involvement in monetary policy that I find catastrophic because the aspects are that way. The CNB, with the help of you and your association, has proven that it has worked in the interest of foreign banks against its people. Thank you for this debate, for all the suggestions, thank you for noting that everyone can get involved before the second reading with their comments and that this legislative proposal is framed in the best possible legal framework and that we can support it together and move forward in solving this key problem that is the CNB and, of course, there is the supervision of that bank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2955	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Bull for his replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Alexic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2956	Well, here's my fellow Bull, thank you. Some countries in the environment have better protected their citizens than we have. So I'm going to give an example of a country that's not in the EU at all. In 2011, in the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, Serbia solved the problem of illegal change in interest rates. She simply ordered what I now advocated and what I advocated two years ago when I was working on amendments to the Consumer Credit Act with then-Minister Linic. Therefore, it did so to order the banks to determine in all credits where no interest rate change parameters were agreed, on the basis of the initial lending conditions, on the basis of the credit conditions applicable at the time of the agreement of each individual contract. In other words, in order to correctly determine the fixed part of the interest rate, it is necessary to subtract from the initial interest the value of the variable parameter at the time of the conclusion of the credit agreement and that is then the fixed margin. This was done in Serbia in 2011 in a country that is not a member of the EU at all. It protects us from the EU's right to actually make such a thing, and we simply have to do something like that. It is a pity that we have not done so far, that this was done at the end of 2013 when changes to the Consumer Credit Act were probably not the case at all. And the main reason why it wasn't done then is I think the CNB is because it had its fingers in it and probably used some of its games to make only a limit to the interest rate in Swiss rather than a complete and true solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2957	I thank my esteemed colleague Alexic for his reply to the replica. This is what we've exhausted all the replicas. We move to the next debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, a distinguished colleague Boris Lalovac reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2958	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. In front of us today is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian National Bank. I will, before I begin to discuss this law, commend the proponent on an initiative for one, introducing a newspaper that also clubs are more active than the Government in making certain decisions. Because there may be a question as to how and whether this law would come here to the Parliament at all if it had been proposed by the Government. Because we know that even when we make decisions in government, there are different opinions, so today you have different opinions in our Croatian government, probably different opinions when it comes to the Croatian National Bank between individual ministers. So I also certainly commend the initiative of the Most Representatives Club that it came from the MPs' club and I think this is a good initiative, regardless of what fellow Pupovac today said should essentially change monetary policy in the Republic of Croatia. I think this is a good first step and every initiative and any legal proposal that can lead to some transparency I think is good and should be introduced first, and then go to other changes later if you find the strength to change and introduce them again. I'll put it briefly, so what we're all saying is that this law is five articles. Of these five articles, the three articles are essential where it is said to be introduced, the first article is to introduce a State Office for Auditing Business Control of the Croatian National Bank. The second is to report to the CNB on them to vote and to limit the sustainability of the mandate of members of the Croatian National Bank Council. So the first and main fundamental change in the introduction of the State Office for the Audit and Control of Business of the Croatian National Bank is that the DUR conducts an audit of the performance of the business of the Croatian National Bank in accordance with the regulations governing the work of the State Audit Office, and it is also stated that the law defines exactly what is considered an audit and thus does not question the principle of institutional independence and Article 130. Treaty on the Functioning of the EU and Article 7 The Statute of the European System of Central Banks. We actually heard some questions here this morning that I was going to ask here today, and that is whether this law has already been sent to the European Commission, or to the European Central Bank. I have already received an answer that was sent, but I would like to see that we have received what they have answered here and whether they resent, whether we can go to another reading, whether the fundamental changes in this event or not occur, and whether they can stop us from reading another reading, and therefore it would be good to see what it is like to know whether this law will have to be changed until another reading if they have no more objections if, as they said, they do not see any reason to do so before the second reading that this document is attached to us here and that, in fact, they may and certainly talk about it. However, here it will be, I remember very well last year's debate when the governor was just talking about how it was part of the EU acquis and that it should not be mixed in that part of the Croatian Parliament in relation to the audit, i.e. it seems to me that last year, the Croatian Parliament has become quite involved in whether the reports of the Croatian National Bank should be voted on, is not it not? So we didn't know the interpretation, so I know there was a lack of quorum and exposure here, etc. etc. However, it is very important to fix this now, meaning that it is being repaired and that it is very taxing that some of these reports are voting. There are still certain thoughts in which way, which if this report is not accepted, but I'm actually going to come to that. But first, this issue is about going into independence. You always know when you want to change, especially as one institution such as the Croatian National Bank which has not had a business audit for 25 years and when you try on a good initiative to say that we do not see any problems why the State Audit Office would not comb the books of the CNB. If it combs documents from the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Economy, Government, President of the Republic of Croatia, Croatian Parliament. What is the problem with looking at and seeing how, whether there is an effective business of an institution. They're always calling for some independence. So every time they try to make some kind of change, they're trying to be afraid that some kind of independence is going to change. There won't be any change in independence, it doesn't get into the fact that one of us MPs is going to say that money should be printed, that they should buy the securities from the Ministry of Finance, etc. It would be an incursion of certain independence where you would order them to finance our public debt. We can't do that in that part, because these are certain directives. However, the question arises why not if their budget, here we say that their budget was never discussed where it came from. It comes out of the law given to him by this Croatian Parliament. So they didn't come in for themselves in some way. So this Croatian Parliament has given them the power to form, that on the basis of their legal proposals they can make certain incomes, have certain expenditures and I see no problem in asking them in this Croatian Parliament what you spend money on. Whether there are certain, are any parafiscal burdens they also impose on banks, so banks transfer it to citizens, etc. etc. The question arises as to how it is possible, I remember that in 2015 when I submitted the CNB Report, the Croatian National Bank had a net profit in 2015 of 2 billion kuna, net profit. Now, you tell me here's how we're not going to get into some big debate, but how is it possible when the deficit was so much, when the economy falls, when the citizens in that part, where the net gets 2 billion kuna. Is that some kind of extra parafiscal concoction? Are these some extra burdens that are actually in that part of the business and what they're doing with that profit? What are they doing with that profit? The question of their responsibility and their spending of money is raised. So we're not talking about us going in that they have to do what we said deeply that they're going to have to change monetary policy from the ground up, but the question of their use and availability of these funds is being raised. I would certainly like to point out here to see if we have the opinion of the State Audit Office for this law because look for the first time that I think the State Audit Office is entering financial institutions. And it's not the same thing to analyze, I don't know any budgetary users and one financial institution. I think that here, certainly, the opinion of the State Audit Office on their capacities and the capacity to analyse the efficiency of a financial institution and ask itself here a question, here I will open, and the analysis of the State Audit Office for HBOR. I don't see any problems if the HBOR is also a financial institution that is under the authority and control that both in the HBOR, although they have their own financial report, so let's not chase two different things, so here we know often and says they have an external independent auditor. Yes, but what does an external independent auditor control in the business of the CNB? It controls whether their financial statements, meaning their balance sheet, profit and loss account, the business report is fair and true in relation to their international accounting standards of financial reporting. And that's it. So they don't go into the efficiency, purpose and manner of business of the CNB, and I think that's good, that this revision will complete the way the CNB operates, especially if we talk about these two reports here, and then I'll mention them. The Croatian National Bank reports two reports in this House. One is the half-yearly information on the financial situation and the degree of price stability and implementation of monetary policy and the second is the Annual Report of the CNB on its work and business. But when you look at the table and you look at these two reports, you know how much information in those two reports that can be this, it seems to me that the Annual Report on some 310 pages, and this half-yearly information on some 150 pages, you know how much it says about the business of the CNB? Zero. So they just give statistics on the operations of monetary authorities, i.e. give the macroeconomic situation, the state of the budget, I don't know a lot of these tables that are actually repeated and actually the Annual Report on the CNB in its work and business you'll very little see the data or you won't see any information about the business of the CNB itself. Just what you're actually going to get through this report, that is, through this revision. And I think it's a good thing that this supplement that they have all the time once a year it's done so that that supplement will just give us a look at how that institution is doing business. Because if they are not allowed to be asked in this House of the High, what is the money spent on, how is it managed, and you can ask any parliamentary representative, every minister, Prime Minister, president of the Republic of Croatia, why are they extremities territorial? And that's why they have to come here to answer all the questions about their business and spending money because that's not the money they've earned. It's the money this High House has given them the opportunity to manage the system. They did not earn it on the market and therefore it must be known about the effect of their net profits on the state budget and about the effects that they themselves did by their inaction on the market and it was certainly the operation of both the Swiss and the RBA cooperatives cannot appear to say we have warned not to know on HRT4 at 3 hours we said one information. So you're asking a question here... tie to the advice. [[You don't understand.]] Do we have the CNB's documents then advice in that section that they went out to this High House and warned the public what was going on? So that's the function of the CNB Council. It's not a function of advice as far as I can see here, and it's a good thing that they're being constrained by themselves. That's what the Finance Committee told me. And I think it's bad that we don't have independent external experts in the CNB Council's system, that it's very bad and that it would be good to think about maybe until the second reading maybe that the CNB Council is getting stronger with members of the Committee on Finance from the Croatian Parliament, two or three members, or maybe what you as the Most Independent Lists have proposed and we immediately and as a SDP club, it seems to me and HDZ have also agreed to form a Committee on Monetary Policy in this House. We don't talk about that much anymore. But it would be good because too many important things are happening within the monetary sphere and that perhaps members of the Committee on Monetary Policy are members of the Council. Why? So just to get one normal communication inside that tip because you have a governor, a deputy governor and six vice governors who drink coffee and everyone there themselves is air-conditioned that it's all good. So on this advice you will never get that something bad is happening inside the Croatian system. You'll get everything done well and done well. And that is why I think and I welcome that the mandate is limited, but certainly to consider introducing opportunities through the Committee on Monetary Policy or through the Committee on Finance and Budgets, to make additional members as external members who would certainly reconsider and be a greater link between the Croatian Parliament and the CNB in that part. These reports are also being discussed here, which I said was good because these reports are being adopted for or against, but there are no consequences. So we ourselves know that unless one of these reports is accepted, neither the governor nor you can influence any policy. But it's interesting that this High House chooses the governor, but it can't be replaced. That I don't know, it's a very interesting one and everyone's here from us and when something happens, etc. There are certain conjectures only for the governor no. But again, there is no question of his independence of monetary policy because it is still not easy to raise 76 hands, and we have seen that it is not easy to raise 76 hands to be someone against some particular report. So I welcome these amendments once again, and I think they are good, so that by the second reading we can get this opinion from the European Central Bank and strengthen the role of the State Audit Office. I think it'll fill out these reports that we've had shortcomings in their area. But I would certainly refer very briefly to some of the statements that were in these reports, which were honestly spoken to by a copy of the paste, do not speak at all at all how monetary policy affects the lives of citizens, have we recently had the Law of conduct. We talked about a number of other economic issues on tax issues, etc. Believe me, if we're talking about only one topic, and we're not talking about the effect and the way monetary policy can contribute to its country's economy, I don't think we have a complete package in that part. And because of that, and especially because this House of Highs had to deal with the consequences of the CNB's failure is inadmissible to me, I've said it many times, and as a minister to me, it's unacceptable for the governor to come and say, well, I've warned about the Swiss franc. Well, my people aren't meteorologists that he warns, so talking today is going to rain, there's not gonna be rain, my people know it in the countries what it means when a people's bank gets into your country, and that's the case with RBA cooperatives, the entire National Bank rises up and says you can't do it because it's gonna have consequences. That's what my people are paid for. That's why they pay 35 thousand kuna. That's what they're paid for. They're not paid to warn. They are paid to work and to prevent such money from entering especially if they know what kind of repercussion it will be. Be careful you have a national trauma for 10 to 15 years, the trauma of the Croatian people due to the Swiss franc and the RBA cooperatives, it will take a minimum of 10 to 15 years and because of this law now the bank's lawsuits, etc. Overturning that process, the role of the CNB, we have warned. What are my people talking about? So we're certainly going to have to open these questions here that theirs is not a warning sign, it's a management, and that's two big differences. I'm sorry, I'll be done very soon. [[Intruder: Time co-worker.]] So once again commendation for this law and I hope that until the second reading and all of these discussions that we will remove and improve it, and certainly we will continue to open a debate that is much more important is it related to a number of other laws. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2959	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague Boris Lalovec for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Maro Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2960	I thank the chairman. Dear fellow Lalovac, I would first of all like to thank you for your positive testimony to our bill. Also in your presentation you supported actually the intensity to introduce supervision through the State Audit Office. I think that even in his debate, my colleague Pupovac said that this is a certain expression of mistrust with independent experts, and I especially thank you for supporting state institutions that have already shown through the audit of many institutions how many irregularities there are, because we have seen that these independent experts, as good as they are, were not too interested in how much public money they spend there in the CNB, were being spent on shrimp, at the costs of fitness employees, renting swimming pools, etc. Did CNB know about various affairs such as HIPO, such as the Croatian Post Bank did not respond in due time. So you have special support and the way you've discussed it unlike some of your colleagues who whenever something doesn't suit them, always reduce it to some personal level, then it's a sex against this, lex against that. So, I very constructively thank you, of course, through another reading, and we will be very happy to respect these suggestions.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2961	I thank my esteemed colleague, Kristic, for the replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague of Lalovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2962	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow, don't be fooled by the fact that there are independent auditors. What I told you, it's two completely different reports. Independent auditors were on KPMG... or these four great ones are watching you financial report by the CNB whether this is in line with international financial reporting standards. So he shows you the balance sheet, the profit and loss account, the report, etc., he doesn't get you into this part of what the State Audit Office is going to show the efficiency of the business of the CNB and that's what we've been missing all along, so these are completely two separate... When someone tells you about it, they say wrong because unfortunately they don't know the problem. And that's why I said it was good, that we'd get more information about their business. It is absolutely unacceptable for me if ministers drive in the economic class, prime minister etc. trying to cut a certain part of the cost of the economy, for six years the Croatian state has been very difficult, that the other institutions that this Parliament has given authority to behave in a arrogant manner and to say look, we have a net profit of two billion kuna and we are not interested in that part. So they have a right and they have to answer to this House because this House chose them, this House has given them legal powers and they have to give us answers whether it's proper their behavior but certainly these two reports of independent auditors who are external. And there weren't many cases in the past where independent auditors were externally giving very positive reports of the type of Enron, so tomorrow it fell apart, etc. you have Arthur Andersen, etc. where everyone was bragging about how good those companies were and how good they were, and tomorrow those companies were gone. So it certainly is still good to get the opinion of the State Audit Office, as much as it is to someone's truth one way or another, but I think it's good to discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2963	I thank my esteemed colleague, Lalovac, for his reply to the replica. The next call came a distinguished colleague, Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2964	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Lalovac, I remember your debate well, and the last time this report was, or now, changes to the law, and I am glad that there is a broader consensus on this need to amend the law, but as far as I remember, you said that you as Minister of Finance couldn't do everything you felt necessary and precisely because of the legal constraints and the fact is that banks can make decisions autonomously in accordance with the law. But it is also a fact that they are not independent of the Croatian state, as should be the fact that the CNB's business of the CNB cannot be independent of this House. And now the question is whether the CNB is an independent regulatory body because we know how an independent regulatory body works as we have some other independent regulatory bodies according to its laws and if it is, and we know what the answer is, then the CNB is not doing this job systematically because I don't think independent regulatory authorities should or can be excluded from submitting a report which is not, but I also cannot be excluded from the audit. And it's a good thing you've troublesome this issue of CNB business because it's a well-hidden tree in the data forest. I was getting into reading it last time, this time I think even when it comes that I won't, because I think that this legislative body just has to have insight into all the data and that it needs to get that tree out of that data forest and that it should definitely be problemed.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2965	I thank my esteemed colleague Vuksanovic for the replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague of Lalovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2966	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So certainly what you said about their, in particular, efficiency review should be seen with the State Audit Office, I say, given their capacity and perhaps to install into the law until and until what time-limit they should present in this high home audit reports for the CNB. It also doesn't say here, but I believe that you will change it in the Law on the State Office for Auditing whether this report is the same vote or not because here we're just talking about these two reports submitted by the CNB, I believe that this report will be voted by the State Audit Office or not. But here it's very clear what to do today... Whether there are any conconsequences or other than public pressure if, and you will see, I guess, when you're looking at someone for 25 years you're simply not under surveillance, or that's certainly going to come out a lot when the State Audit Office comes in there and see if they're all some kind of talk-telling. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But finally, let's get away from these talk-telling stories, sometimes the State Audit Office actually submits a report and let the governor elected to this home come and defend his report. But certainly further raising transparency and business cannot harm anyone and therefore another commendation for this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2967	I thank my esteemed colleague, Lalovac, for his reply to the replica. The next call came from distinguished counterpart Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2968	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would agree with what you said on behalf of the SDP Club. Maybe at first I should say that I don't really agree that it's better to propose clubs of individual laws than the Government because you say that sometimes ministers have different views on the same things and that they can't have that unity and come up with a bill to the Parliament. I wouldn't agree with you. As many ministers have their own views, it is clear that the government must act unitedly. Even in this case. I expect that by the second reading the Government will be manifested on this bill. That's one thing. Secondly, you rightly ask if this bill has the opinion of the European Central Bank. I have to say, there isn't. What Panenic was saying about the European Central Bank's opinion on the Bank's position since 15 June this year on the first draft of a law that is almost identical but still according to the Croatian Parliament's procedure, we do not have the government's position on the one hand and on the other hand we do not have the opinion of the European Central Bank under this law. I think that a month ago the Ministry of Finance sent this proposal to the European Central Bank and we are still expecting, according to my advice, that proposal should come in a few days, but anyway, we are now discussing it without that opinion. And whether or not we support this law, it is our right to represent ourselves. I personally support the bill that goes towards the transparency of the business of the CNB. And that is exactly what is proposed by this law that it can very much be monitored by the State Audit Office, the spending of public funds, so that the operational work of the CNB is controlled. As for the part relating to the profit of the 2014 CNB, you were then Minister of Finance, you know that one small gift, not very little of 516, seems to me, millions of kunas of HNB gave after that business and the rest of the funds seem to me to have gone into reserves and part into alignment, I mean exchange rate differences, or whatever the CNB Act itself provides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2969	I thank my esteemed colleague Bacic for his replica. The answer to the line, dear colleague Lalovec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2970	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I wouldn't say that it was some kind of CNB gift, it's their legal duty and obligation when the state was in trouble, the state was also nibbled in problems both in negative and in deficit that even, the CNB even more strongly supported its fiscal authority and its fiscal government because so did many other central banks in the western Hemisphere and also in the eastern part. They even have a much stronger role, and this is not what they're talking about, and they're taking part in certain shows. Not in the Western countries. So in that part, we can also ask whether it was within that specified time limit was that aid when the state needed that aid not to cut pensions, not to cut certain social benefits, not to be cut down into the most vulnerable parts of society, was the CNB’s contribution to its country supposed to be stronger and more significant then? And I think it should have been and perhaps that by changing the laws, these were times of crisis, 25 years of the Croatian state those 6 years of recession really left a very big mark on the Croatian economy and Croatian people. So, and there was a certain, how can I say... where, as one part of the fixed amount is left for the budget and were extremely real crisis situations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And regarding this part, whether or not the Government will propose it should certainly get the government's opinion, so it seems to me that for the last time, Mr Bozo Petrov, the President of the Croatian Parliament, has just said that the initiative, that it will change the parliament in that part that more proposals come from the MPs and be their more active role. So we don't mind in that part, and a much stronger, more active role being represented and the government in some parts purely giving technical support.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2971	I thank Mr. Lalovec for his reply to the replica. The next call came from a respected counterpart, Alexic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2972	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Lalovac, do you have any idea what the CNB's opinion on the business of RBA cooperatives is? I don't have that knowledge, so I'd like you to introduce me to your knowledge if you do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2973	He thanks his esteemed colleague Alexic for his replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague of Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2974	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Unfortunately, I don't have that knowledge since we've spoken to the governor more than once, and when I talked to the governor in person, it wasn't exactly a pleasant conversation as much as it might seem on the media's side to support it, it wasn't exactly a conversation that, we had different views on a number of problems and one of the problems was that they were simple, I could say that when we discussed that they didn't even know about 300 thousand blocked citizens. We've discussed this problem for a long time because I wanted to open up this issue of how the CNB through interventions of their sublegal acts or regulations can help banks dissipate citizens. That's when I was startled by the fact that they didn't even know about 300 thousand Croatian citizens. They thought the majority of the blockades came from the state, not from business banks where out of 300 thousand Croatian citizens 90% of these 30 or 40 billion as far as 90% today are related to the business of banks and their poor placements. Then the question is, how is it possible that the National Bank, that you have 90% of the physical problems for citizens that they don't know that information, then in other words they know that they don't even know how to manage that data? Then here we are trying to help these citizens through certain implementing laws, but we cannot help them unless the CNB is actively involved in this issue. And then we'll come up with cooperatives and a certain credit in Swiss francs. So without their more active role and helping their policies towards banks and sitting, it means solving bad placements... means legislative... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We can bring whatever we want here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If they are not actively involved, you will also see this problem and performances, etc. We won't be able to solve it. Of course it would be a pleasure. And that is why we need to question their business and their more active role in solving those burning problems. Unfortunately, very little information has how they live, how citizens operate and how Croatian citizens live. And that's what I've actually said publicly and more than once.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2975	I thank my esteemed colleague, Lalovac, for his reply to the replica. Since he's had five more lines reported, I'm setting a break by 3:00 p.m. when we'll continue with the replicas. It's a 13,35 o'clock meeting.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2976	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] And the next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivica Music. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2977	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, my dear colleague, Lalovac, I am pleased to hear your presentations. I would agree with everything you've said so far. But I'm asking one question as to how long it's been in this country for almost 26 years since there's been a National Bank but no one has ever touched anything. I don't understand it, or someone didn't want it, or some of them didn't know how it could have been that long, and this proposal that was now proposed by MOST, it's known that it was proposed by Professor Dr. Ivan Lovrinović. That's not what the MOST suggested. Therefore, these merits to the Most, even though we were true in the Most, do not belong. It belongs to Ivan Lovrinović who launched that and the signature here in the Parliament. Of the 9 parties, he collected only 45 signatures sent to Europe to approve the audit. And I don't get it, you were the finance minister. The National Bank costs 17 billion as far as we know the kuna that stands. If we freed 7 billion kunas, our economy would certainly live and some things would change in Croatia. Well, I'd like to hear your opinion just about that if you were a finance minister, what would be the most triggered and what would be the economy in Croatia if those money were put in and how these money was spent in the first place. You said in 2014 that two billion kunas remained in the bank in 2015. So, every year there's some kind of profit, and with these National Bank profits nobody seems to have. They lie down or maybe even the banks that they take from us on their profits, maybe even interest that our citizens pay too much. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2978	Thank you. The distinguished representative Boris Lalovac will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2979	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much for asking me, colleague Misic. Yeah, I agree. I don't know if I said that in my debate, colleague Ivan Lovrinovic was certainly in the last, last session of the Parliament just raised that question when it came to whether or not to vote on something and then the question was still raised. I said that committee, which is very important, today I mentioned it here, and I also remember very well these negotiations with my colleague Lovrinović that this Committee on Monetary Policy should be formed in the Assembly where it would give a much more active debate and not just bring about these individual solutions. I hope, I believe it was from colleagues of Ivo Lovrinović his idea that now MOST will continue, and most of them will accept. Because I think the Committee, for example, needs monetary policy. Now we've been discussing exactly half-yearly information that we've been saying again today that we're getting notice. What do we need to know if we can't discuss it actively and participate? And these 7 billion kunas that should be operated and injected into the system, which exist in the system but simply do not actually come to end consumers. This is what the Croatian National Bank reports very often. But they just stand on it and like them, there's nothing they can do. I don't think that, just to further question their role in liberating this money and this kind of debate that they're bringing here is going to continue to be a positive pressure, so that someone doesn't think we're doing some kind of negative pressure on monetary policy. Certainly such discussions lead to positive debates, i.e. positive pressure on all the factors in society primarily on monetary issues because we know that for a long time here other than fellow Goran Marić, someone has not debated essentially the problems of the monetary government and that is why I am glad when such discussions take place in the Assembly, that there are experts in monetary issues. Well, we probably won't all imagine it, but let one part of the idea come true, I think we're going to make a move, and that these money that's standing there will eventually come to the ones they need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2980	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2981	Dear Representative Lalovac, here I remember while you were Minister of Finance saying that, and today you mentioned that it was very difficult to talk in the Croatian People's Bank in case of solving the problem Frank. And instead of one co-ordination that you've had a difficult situation which is as difficult to me as a scientist, and now a parliamentary representative is unclear because it's still a difficult problem today. However, in your presentation, I noticed, and I liked the expression that, that the Croatian National Bank has, on the basis of the existing law, the status of exteriority, supranational institutions, imagine whose reports are not voted in the Parliament. Well, imagine that! So who owns this institution? State of Croatia. So, therefore, the Parliament must hear and vote as the most legislative body. And not just that. When we refer to the practice of the European Central Bank, the European Parliament votes on its reports. So, here, do you agree that this is about manipulations based on the ignorance of a large number of citizens, and I am particularly glad that you are as a finance minister who has made a significant contribution to solving the problem of francs, which you have expressed the opinion that these around 7 billion kunas are based on the most rigorous estimates that lie in the HNB capital account that can be used to stimulate the economy. Did you have the opportunity as Minister of Finance to decide how to use the CNB's profits? You're not, and in my opinion, they've made their own decisions. Do you think that has to change? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2982	Thank you. The distinguished representative Boris Lalovac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2983	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Lovrinović that very difficult, I spoke openly that it was very difficult and it was quite a heated debate between here it was a fellow Greek me and the governor where they were not very pleasant to those around us because we had a different concept. The concept that the CNB must actually contribute more to Croatian society especially at a time when six years of severe recession is where you simply can't stand by and say all this is good, and you see the situation happening in society. However, a very important question, here we were now on the Committee on Finance and Budget which shocked me, and this debate will come, the CNB don't know if you know if it just took off the account of the Financial Agency 150 million kuna based on the 1996 dispute and endangered the business of the FINA, the fundamental institution that runs us a part of the Treasury, which runs the COP for all of us. A ten-year dispute lasted, for 12 years, the CNB carried out another state institution to the FINA and put business at risk. Now we've been together. We'll see the debate tomorrow or the day after tomorrow when it comes to the Annual Report of the FINA. And she threw them at the loss of 100 million kuna. Now somebody tell me is that the main function of the CNB? Is this the function of the National Bank to perform a state institution, to bring her before bankruptcy? 150 million kunas, imagine! Out of 150 million kunas, 110 million kunas are tight interest rates. And FINA if we don't make some kind of decision here that this money that the CNB has collected from their account to return to the state budget, recapitalizes FINA because we're going to jeopardize the business of the Financial Agency through which the Treasury is conducted, the wages accounts, means the fundamental functions that the state actually needs. And if we hadn't heard it today, actually, at the debate, it would have just gone away. And now I ask the question is it the fundamental functions of the Croatian National Bank? So the same thing as we're saying, I think it's scary what we actually heard today and we have to react very quickly because it becomes questionable whether FINA will be able to perform its basic functions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2984	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2985	Thank you very much. Mr. Lalovec, in your debate, you've given a few questions, one of the most interesting things is what if the CNB report is not adopted in this House, then what happens? And is it normal for the CNB to continue to function as if everything was the same as yesterday, as if it were none of their business? Because de facto it turns out that after you appoint the governor and his team for 6 years after that state, the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian people with them should have almost nothing. I think that regardless of the independence and position of the institution they should be more accountable to the Croatian Parliament, Croatian citizens than the European Central Bank. Regardless of all Mr. Vujčić, Governor Vujčić should take care of what the MPs say about it, he should also take care of what you just said that if he was the founder of a state-owned company, if in those 1990s there was a problem that certainly didn't cause FINA, it probably caused the state, but FINA carried out a decision by someone at that time that should not be brought into a situation to block the institution of the state in order to charge 110 million kuna. So it's not the CNB of the cow world, it's not the state of the country, it's supposed to be in the role of citizens and in the function of all those who can benefit from it, entrepreneurs and all others and on that side more responsibility and greater responsibility is more than necessary. I am particularly interested in what you think the governor should do in case his report at the Croatian Parliament is not adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2986	Thank you. They will respond to the replica of the esteemed representative of Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2987	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So just as everyone does not adopt a report morally is actually to step down because most MPs who have chosen that person unless they no longer trust it is certainly in that part of it morally to step down. However, you will see if this report is not implemented will continue to operate and this High House has no mechanisms whatsoever, absolutely no mechanisms will affect the choice of a new governor, vice governor, deputy, etc. And there's a big problem, or maybe a legal gap where we can talk to another reading in some way, I don't know if maybe in this law, but in the next, it certainly fills in such gaps. However, what we just heard on the board I would once again look back at it, we ask that the FINA problem be dealt with urgently because probably the Ministry of Finance from the budget will have to capitalize on that same FINA, so budget money will have to be spent. So money where you know yourself about 110 or 150 million kunas to be taken to whether certain social benefits or certain transfers that are... Someone's gonna have to take 150 million kunas to capitalize on FIN. [[You don't understand.]] Or try to solve it quickly one way. In what way? ... The transfer of the CNB that made it very fast to react because believe that when they end up so in a negative state, that is, the alarming situation that the president of the FINA has now given us is that it is very quick to act, or through certain legislative changes, that this institution strengthens, strengthens, continue certain tasks. [[You don't understand.]] Because they do a lot of work for the state and the state is not to say the basis, not to say they're doing our salary bill. So they're also doing a salary calculation for 250,000 people. So now if they find themselves under the roof and so much trouble that we certainly know about everyone we can react to.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2988	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative is Cynthia Varge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2989	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here is a colleague of Lalovac's very good and plastically depicted our position on amendments and additions to the laws that I personally support, but during this debate very much talked about the role and business of the CNB. I have carefully read not only the amendments and additions proposed by my colleagues from MOST but also the law itself. Article 4 shows very plastically what the role and tasks of the CNB are, and now we see the difference between reality and legal obligations and those things that happen in everyday life where I personally experience the CNB as a safeguard for the stability of monetary policies in Croatia, but for the benefit of all of us as citizens of this country, not for the sake of stability and owners of credit institutions. My experience, or everything I had in contact with the CNB as director of HZZO, and later as minister and everything I read in the media writings, was de facto the fundamental opposite of that. All about reducing the state deficit, all the activities we did were without the support of the CNB, and in the end I remember very well the cry of the de facto finance minister in that period to help the economy with the monetary emissions that didn't occur until the change of power occurred, so this show was only created as far as I was known in the spring and in the first quarter of 2016, so I would like to hear a comment on whether it was politically conditional or just a dispute from the birth of the CNB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2990	Thank you. The honourable representative Boris Lalovac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2991	Thank you very much. So now I don't know if there have been any political conditions, I just know that in some parts of it we'll come up with a debate when we discuss half-yearly information or an annual report by the CNB when during the conversion of the Swiss franc, there's one warning that the CNB sent back to the government at about 10 to 12 points where it listed all the conconsequences that will happen in the Republic, that it will increase the interest rates on the euro, that we will continue to drop ratings, that all will avoid the Republic, that we will experience complete collapse, system etc. Finally, nothing happened. Not only nothing but exactly the opposite, the economy has more started to grow, citizens have received a certain share of income through their incomes, etc., etc. Then the question now arises, each of us of the parliamentary deputies, from the ministers, from the government when a certain statement certainly has a burden and responsibility for what is stated especially because it has an influence on the public. Now I'm just asking a question, what's the responsibility of someone in the CNB who even writes it in writing, writes it in writing, nothing happens, even if it does happen, but now the question is, did someone deliberately not want to tell the truth or actually didn't know? In my opinion, they might not have lied or lied because if they didn’t know, then that’s a bigger problem. If they don't know and do one such conversion, the whole public wonders whether they're going to raise interest rates in the euro, they say they're going to go to 6.7%, the pressure on people in the euro was what happens to us, right after, and what happens, that the interest rates in the euro begin to fall. The exact opposite happens. Then a question of the responsibility of an institution which provides such information is raised. And now that's how it goes. And remember that information came in the morning at nine o'clock, already at 12 o'clock the governor denied all that was written. So we have to admit, and we're going to come up with such things, I think that someone must certainly be held accountable and written and say as it is brought about for us, for ministers, for the government, for the Prime Minister, that so this responsibility must apply to such a very important institution, especially because their information can greatly upset the public, people who have certain loans in euro is dependent on their existence.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2992	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Branko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2993	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So my intervention went in this sense, and I showed it ten days ago on the board that the law doesn't stay empty. Give you MOST colleagues to make this effort and supplement this law, so that it is known what is the convention of non-acceptance of the report in the Assembly. And another thing, this advice famous cannot really survive as advice, it is a pure conflict of interest or conflict with itself, better said, that people on the council are the same ones who run the bank, therefore they advise themselves. So let them at least change their name, let them be called pine, let them be called the executive board of banks or I don't know how, but there's no point in calling advice if it won't expand in the sense that Boris was talking about earlier. And another important thing, at this point in these few years, the surplus liquidity in Croatia has increased from about a billion, two today to nearly nine, ten billion kuna. So in the banking system there's ten billion kunas or slightly less excess liquidity. Interests are at historically low rates and levels. The question is, why is credit activity still falling in Croatia, why can't our citizens come or can't come to credit, and what is even more important business is even harder? Know why? Because bankers look at our entrepreneurs through double or triple glasses. So that aversion, that risk resistance is terribly high and there's the role of the CNB to change the situation. So, I expect the CNB to make a greater contribution at the moment when it is as in the plane that took off that drive should be further strengthened to reach some height to be reached, which is the Croatian economy that must grow more than it is now growing. And that CNB has to play its part.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2994	Thank you. The honourable representative Boris Lalovac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2995	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Greeks, that is why I personally said today to commend the first step taken by the MOST club, that this is only the first step in increasing labour transparency, and that the reports that come to us as an annual report or half-yearly information are not listed only some 100 or 200 tables of statistical indicators, etc. But to say what are the active measures of the CNB now that you have 11 billion kuna, you can't say here there are 11 billion kunas extra and on the other hand they won't place it and that's how it all stands. So let's say what measures they've been doing, is that a problem of high coverage of these low-cost reserves? This is what we heard today that they are chasing their own percentages and we will come up with this when we come to a debate because what is then a function if we have 11, 12 billion kunas and imagine that Croatian entrepreneurs who need to pay 1 to 2% in Croatian kunas are also hearing that they have posters for production, for export, for tourism and simply can't get to that money. Then there's the question of who's crazy, there's about 11, 12 billion dollars per 1.2%, and no one can get that money. And it's simple, and it means not only taxing, and that's why we're going to change the reports of the People's Bank, so what they've done, what they're asking us to change so that they can do it so that it's being smuggled to actually get money to Croatian citizens and not just to say we're keeping price stability. So under today's conditions, full employment is actually the main goal. Full-time. What does price stability mean if no one works? Why do you need stable prices when no one works, when everyone's on the market, when everyone's on the burden of the state budget. What purpose are we talking about? If we change that full employment is actually the government's goal, and each government's goal is full employment because you're so full of both the pension system and the health system, you're charging that part of VAT and budget, etc., you're changing the full paradigm of what's really the main goal of monetary government, whether it's employment or price. If we are on the international competitiveness market today are prices, they are actually fluctuating through the market. But the problem is employment in that part, too. Thank you very much. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2996	Thank you. Now we're going to the next club of MPs and that's that HNS, HSU on behalf of which will speak the distinguished representative of Christmas Macar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2997	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here we are today talking about the CNB, but most of us have talked about what should actually be the work of the CNB and what is important and what our citizens will benefit from. However, what the MOST Representatives Club is proposing today, this proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Croatian National Bank, which aims at how they cited greater transparency in the business of the CNB, is certainly commendable because we need to start from something. And in the previous Parliament meetings, we've talked a lot here, analyzed, made suggestions, made criticism, thought about what should be done, and it seems to me that no one was completely satisfied. What we are saying now and what is proposed by this law is transparency which is the goal of actually having insight into citizens and above all we MPs in order to see how these funds available to the business of the CNB are being spent. We often hear criticism that high material costs, high wages, we've heard of various benefits but we've heard it all from the media. However, when we have the opportunity to see that data, we may be convinced of something else, perhaps some things will be denied, we may conclude that in fact the CNB is very careful about how these funds are spent, but at this point we don't know it, so that is why the perception of the public and us here in the Assembly is such that this business is not very good. By entering the State Office for review, so we're going to get that data, we're going to be able to compare it, maybe we're going to be able to actually defuse some of the more difficult assumptions and conjectures. But one thing's for sure, we'll have those data, and that's also more transparency. I note here that it is important to maintain independence. There is now a dilemma whether independence of complete CNB or self-reliance in business. However, I would not go into these issues because they require a broader discussion and cannot be evaluated in such a short time and opinions are different. And that's why it's important to listen to both the profession and the public, and then, after a wide debate on it, make a decision. It's good that this proposal goes into two readings so we've already heard here a series of proposals that should be included in the very proposal that a second reading comes with a law that we'll probably be able to adopt because I say, I think this is the law that needs to be done. There have also been several objections to the agreement of the EU, as here it is proposed that, with the review of financial reports and overall business carried out by an independent and external auditor under Article 62 of the current law, it is also possible to enable the national auditor to carry out the performance audit by clearly establishing what is considered to be such an audit with respect to the EU legal framework applicable to the operations of central banks and without prejudice to the principle of institutional independence of Article 130 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. So independence is important. And monetary policy is not affected by this law. Although I don't think there's any need to discuss it here. We will therefore have to amend the legislative framework for the work of the State Audit Office in order to establish the authority to carry out the audit of the business of the CNB, so that they can give us all that information, all those figures that are required to publish for the other state institutions. So not only what the external auditors have published so far, and this is still all done in accordance with laws, international accounting standards and Croatian publishing standards. Furthermore, the proposal states that the CNB must submit once a year to the Croatian Parliament half-yearly information on the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy as well as the annual report on its work and business. So far, we have had half-yearly information on the financial situation and the degree of price stability. However, we did not have a vote or acceptance or non-acceptation. Now the question is, if we don't accept this information, who's responsible, what are the consequences? So, a little bit of monetary policy is already being touched here, so I think there should be a little bit more decidedly, or considered. And we've talked about it the same way, and more colleagues in their discussions and replicas looked back on it. So, we've only got business going on. In business, we can accept the report again or not. What's going to happen here was whether, for moral reasons, the governor would simply resign, whether it would be regulated or proposed that we, as a Parliament confirming the prime minister in this place, apologize to the governor, would immediately be the prime minister, even if the prime minister confirmed, that he had some possibility of sanctions. What sanctions? I don't know, I'm expecting the same debate or any further proposal. We had further to introduce a limitation of the term of office for the members of the CNB Council to a maximum of two mandates of six years. So far, the condition was as remains that it must be a citizen of the Republic of Croatia with a recognised personal reputation and professional experience in monetary, financial, banking or real areas. It has already been pointed out here that it might not be bad, that's what my colleague Alexic said about making an addition and having members of the Consumer Protection Associations who are really very familiar with it. There were also proposals to form a Committee on Monetary Policy which would also have its representative. And I personally think that it should be independent external experts because we have to admit that it is quite illogical that members of the Council, it is enough to meet these criteria and they can also be persons from the CNB, which is not the happiest solution. It is necessary to think carefully, analyse all the advantages and disadvantages that allow persons from the CNB to be members of the Council at the same time, so that they advise the governor. The very intensities of the Act on Supplements to the CNB Act are good. We in the Croatian People's Party support all proposals of laws that bring greater transparency. So this direction of this bill is good and I believe that colleagues will accept all these discussions, proposals, criticisms and will define a new law or new bill which we will certainly be able to support. I believe he will be clear, unequivocal, so there will be no more of these dilemmas as it is now. When we're sure that everything that we've discussed is in this law, we will surely accept this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2998	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Branir Bunjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u2999	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear MPs mean they are always talking about the independence of the Croatian National Bank, but it seems that independence means only independence from the Croatian Parliament and from the Croatian government. Because if it is, why isn't independence mentioned by foreign auditors? Why is independence not mentioned from foreign power centres, why is independence not mentioned by foreign business banks? So we have unilateral independence, we have to give independence to the CNB in case Croatian institutions want to have control over it as well as influences on its work but when foreigners need to enter the CNB then there is no more independence. I would remind you of Article 53. The Croatian Constitution, which says that the CNB is independent and independent in paragraph 2, but already in the fourth sentence, it says "The objective, tasks and jurisdiction of the CNB are governed by the law." Which means that the Croatian Parliament is indeed entitled to affect the position of the CNB, therefore, to give it both tasks and goals that it can achieve independently. But this way, so that the CNB is independent so that it can do whatever it wants and now we have to practically ask someone to take control of something called Croatian and something called the people's simply doesn't stand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3000	Thank you. She will be answered by a distinguished representative of the Goddess Macar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3001	Dear colleague, I will not and do not wish to believe that the Croatian National Bank is managed by someone outside. I want to believe that the Croatian National Bank is managed by the governor, managed by the council and worked for the best purpose of Croatian citizens. We were having discussions here today that it wasn't, and that's why I opened up the possibility that monetary policy is something to discuss, that I'm in favour of giving guidance based on the arguments. However, I continue to argue that the CNB must be an independent institution operating under the laws passed by this Assembly. And once again, I won't and I don't want to believe that someone else is operating outside the Croatian National Bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3002	Thank you. The next club of representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3003	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here I will talk on behalf of the HDZ Club about this proposed law, i.e. amendments to the Law on the Croatian National Bank which as a club we also support in principle but we are looking and we expect that we will ultimately modify it in the way it should be read. The CNB is a central bank of the Republic of Croatia and is an integral part of the European System of Central Banks. The CNB’s main objective is to maintain price stability, taking into account the overall stability of the financial system itself. The CNB runs monetary and foreign policy, manages the international reserves of the Republic of Croatia, issues Croatian money to the kuna, issues approvals for the work of credit institutions, credit unions, and payment institutions and electronic money. It shall also issue authorisations for the work of authorised exchange offices. What is important for the CNB is that this is both a colleague and all colleagues mentioned earlier, that it is independent and independent and that independence is a key prerequisite for successful and credible implementation of monetary policy, and thus achieving the core objective of the Central Bank and this is price stability. The previous Government has indeed requested the opinion of the European Central Bank itself in the process and the independence of the CNB is also conditioned by the very system in which we are located. When the question really asked what this law wanted to achieve, then what we stated were three conditions. Therefore, it is precisely for the CNB to be the first to allow the State Audit Office to carry out annual audits of the drawn-up financial reports and of the entire business of the CNB. In any case, the funds managed by the CNB are the funds of Croatian citizens, and in any case it is necessary that the State Audit Office can and must control the spending, so our money, that is how it is made available precisely by the money that the Croatian citizen has, otherwise, empowered us and the CNB to manage it. The second question is to impose on the Croatian Parliament, which is how the Croatian Parliament will accept or not accept the annual report on the work and business of the CNB, and how this will also be reflected in the provision of half-yearly information on the financial situation and the degree of price stability, as well as the implementation of monetary policy. The third was a reduction, i.e. a question of the number of terms of office of governors and other members of the CNB Council, the length of the duration of their mandates and, in fact, the composition of the members, the relationship of the CNB Council. What has to be said is that the existing law has allowed the National Bank Council to actually have governors and six vice governors, and the scope of control itself, what we said in our report from the board itself, so the assumption is that the control of the CNB itself is made possible and wider. Therefore, other citizens, i.e. experts who receive the mandate, may also sit on the CNB Council itself. In the Statute of the Croatian National Bank, Article 4 states that the Council consists of 8 members – Governor, Deputy Governor and 6 Vice Governors of the CNB. In this case, it is also necessary to amend the Statutes and to amend the law itself further on the Croatian National Bank. Furthermore, the State Commission or the European Central Bank states that the scope of the control when we talk about the first issue, so the entry of the State Audit Office into the annual audit of financial reports says that the scope of the control should be clearly established by the legal framework, should be without prejudice to the tasks of the examination of all accounts and accounts of the central bank by an independent external auditor and, in accordance with the principle of institutional independence, be in line with the prohibition of giving instructions to the central bank and its bodies responsible for decision-making and shall not affect the tasks of the central bank related to the ESF. Therefore, the state audit should be carried out on a non-political, independent and fully professional basis. Therefore, anything is possible if a proper and proper legal framework is drawn up to ensure that independence is guaranteed and so is the case if only the exercise of supervision is done professionally and subject to the conditions of professional secrecy. It also says that the confidentiality of information and documents provided by the CNB must be ensured to the same extent that the CNB applies the business secret provisions. So here's one of the conditions. The independence of the Central Bank must therefore be covered through several aspects, which is functional, institutional, personal and financial independence. That's what it is, all the principles that need to be done and boredom behaves like that. What is also important is that through what colleagues have also mentioned on the board and we agreed that the annual report, or half-yearly report, must be the same when it is presented to the Assembly, must be behind this conjecture that would arise if this report is not accepted, and not only takes note. Then what does that mean? This must then indeed be clearly defined and it must be known who is responsible for what all entities in the Republic of Croatia are for. So, the view of the HDZ Club is that this is a very high-quality shift in terms of changing modes and operations, but in this system, it is important, therefore, that we are also a member of the EU that must respect the provisions of the community in which it is located must therefore have a positive opinion and bring all of this into line with the position of the European Central Bank and respect our interests as equal members fully protected, and that at the same time we have quality control over the business of the CNB which, as I said, costs and benefits of our taxpayers in fact and therefore must be responsible for the legality of business and spending of these funds. The colleagues here also mentioned whether and how the CNB acted in certain cases. Each institution and so does the CNB has a certain instrumentation. Likewise, when it warns what will happen as a consequence of any change, it is normal that it will have to make that clear in a certain way. And it's also important that she succeeded in this procedure with her instrumentation in fact to contain any major earthquakes. Not because what my colleague Lovrinović said was actually the winner of any action, but the advantage is so much that through the instrumentation she could do everything to protect Croatian citizens better and that this change that took place in that case on the financial market is that it is better amortised and that the easier it is to actually get over. So here's one of these instruments that were what the CNB report said was that kuna liquidity was increased by reintroducing regular repo operations and abolishing mandatory cash registers, and foreign intervention provided foreign currency liquidity and thus actually calmed the pressures on the exchange rate. Here, these are the instruments used by the CNB in this case. But I'm not saying it's an institution that's either doing well or best. But I'm saying she's in the system that needs to be controlled. And finally, here is this, through the amendments to the law and the quality of the amendments to the law, can be very well achieved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3004	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused quite a number of replicas. The first one is the distinguished representative Branimir Bunjca, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3005	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues during today's debate, you mentioned that the devaluation of the kuna would endanger the users of the credit. The claim is therefore completely incorrect because the devaluation of the kuna would help credit users if the currency clause was also abolished. The speaker does not understand./... the HNB policy has threatened the creditors or debtors with the currency clause and the fixed rate, unreal and you can very easily check it if you ask all the debtors in Croatia who have raised loans in Swiss francs, many debtors in euro who currently cannot pay them, and also future debtors who have an interest rate in EURIBOR and LIBOR where they are expected to grow interest rates in the next few years and where the debtors will again be brought into a state that they will not be able to pay their loans and that they will lose their property or stocks in return for these loans. Therefore, the devaluation of the kuna is one of the solutions, in fact, a necessary solution to facilitate the debtor of the crisis in Croatia, but also to boost the economy. It is important to abolish the currency clause, and for 22 years in Croatia we simply hear nothing because it is not to be talked about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3006	The distinguished representative Grozdana Peric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3007	Dear colleague, you must know that the kuna is tied and the power of the Kuna is tied to the exchange rate of the euro. We don't have the gold reserves that we could tie it to the gold reserves and in this relationship in which we are like a young country, we certainly have to make sure that it's impossible to abolish the currency clause in such a way that you say it simply because otherwise it means that all credits will be reported exclusively to kunas. So our currency is tied to the ratio and the ratio of our currency or the kuna equivalent is tied to the euro itself, so we don't have the possibility in this case or there has to be some other policy that our policy would be exclusively to bind to all credits in kunas. Otherwise, this is how you say if the devaluation will be done then our citizens are particularly in trouble because our income growth probably won't follow the growth or devaluation of the kuna and thus the same citizens will get into trouble again that they won't be able to repay their loans, which is certainly in no one's interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3008	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3009	Thank you very much. I've been listening to Grodana Peric, listening to all these lies that they've been spreading since '94. that this Stabilisation Pact will save us, however, it is a lie that comes from hell from the father of lies written by the apostle John at 8:44 that it is Satan because by 1994 we had our currency unrelated to the gold reserves and she had no cover in gold reserves and no currency on the globe today has a metal cover. So what you're talking about is that the kuna needs... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3010	You can't say words like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3011	All right, I'm sorry. What you're saying is that we can't broadcast a kuna independently of foreign currency because we don't have a gold reserve that's nonsensic that has nothing to do with facts. I don't know why you draw such misinformation or how to tell Hebrang I sometimes don't tell the truth, but I'm not lying, but I don't know what this would call not telling the truth or lying. As far as the thesis is concerned that the abolished currency clause or loans could not be converted into kunas, everything would be given if it were willful, but you HDZ gentlemen serve these structures of power that you serve and persistently defend this failed monetary model, a colonial model that is tried, tested around the world, and wherever it has been tried, it has led to a terrible credit crisis and a decline of currency, as it has brought to Argentina, as it has brought to Thailand, caused the Asian financial crisis, but Mrs. Peric unfortunately you have no idea, nor do you care. You only came here to sell us the HDZ demagogues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3012	Thank you. The distinguished representative Grozdana Peric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3013	Mr. Pernar, I remember dinar devaluation of dinar, Croatian dinar, etc. with several digits and decimals that you have no idea about, and it would be good to also read everything that happened in the past from the former system. So all that was happening and how it was happening was something that could be done as well as possible so that we as a young country could survive in a way that could survive and, in addition, restore the state, build a state and heal the state from all destruction. So you don't remember everything that happened before because you weren't born, because you're my daughter's age, so don't say such ugly things because you can't even know what conditions were going on and what was going on and how it could have been better. We all want the whole system to work better, and we also need to be aware that without the banking system, we can shut ourselves down as a state. If you want an example of one Albania or any other country that had such a closed system in which you will eat, I don't know what, then it's also possible, you won't have a loan but trust me you won't have a chance to develop. Besides, you won't even be open to the world, and you'll also be sure that you won't even have tourism between 9 billion and 10 billion euros a year.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3014	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3015	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, what I've heard from you, it's all right, I can't replicate too much about what you've been saying right now, but I need to complete you because you haven't said one very important role of the Croatian National Bank. In addition to all the roles you mentioned, the CNB has an even more important role for me, which is the role of supervisors, supervisors, business regulators of the Croatian banks. So on the test of supervisory, supervision and regulation of the business of Croatian banks, the Croatian National Bank has completely fallen. First of all, it did not limit the way the currency clause was used, it could do so through proposing legal changes through the Ministry of Finance as it does otherwise. Furthermore, the CNB did not prevent banks in an illegal manner from negotiating interest rates. Both the third CNB and the day today say banks are operating legally after banks have not agreed with their debtors on variable interest rates. So, the CNB as a supervisor, supervisor and business regulator of Croatian banks has completely failed the exam and thus the CNB has caused legal uncertainty in the Republic of Croatia. That's what I was gonna say. And that is why I propose to introduce civil supervision of the business of the Croatian National Bank, and therefore I suggest that someone from consumer protection who has been in this business for many years enter the Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3016	Thank you very much. The distinguished representative Grozdana Peric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3017	Thank you very much. My colleague, yes, in any case, would be fine, and I support that surveillance in any case and that the advice be extended. As for the currency clause itself, it is true that certain errors were certainly made by the CNB, which is not all banks, we have seen how the banks were doing and what was happening, which had failed private banks and the rest. All mechanisms are not high-quality by the CNB also may have been used or, I'm not saying that all mechanisms have been used but that we can say that one institution is guilty of all the troubles, we can't say that. So this is a whole system and a series of measures that must actually be complemented in order for this instrument to be as high as possible and could then be built into the business itself of each individual bank, i.e. in order for them to agree to be as qualitative and in a certain way to protect the individual. We also know that with devaluation or growth in that case, the rise in the value of the Swiss franc in Switzerland was a problem. Why? Because that capital, in fact, the Swiss citizen had also overpriced goods, that is, the price of the goods he paid. So it's also reflected on the whole world economy, but normally we have to take care of ourselves and our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3018	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mark Vesligai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3019	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues here I will agree with you and with all those who participated in the debate today and who said that this is actually one first step towards making and for the CNB actually those rules that apply to other public institutions. I'm going to include the same thing in public institutions because why don't you let the state audit into the CNB? Why not increase transparency? And I'd go one step further why not increase one credibility of our central bank. Credibility is such a common word that I use here today in the Croatian political space to express myself, but here the Croatian public has polarised a debate for more than 20 years when we come to the topic of monetary policy and central bank, which is a strong kuna or depreciation. And it's very rare to ask the question of what should be the essence. In my opinion, a stable currency should be a stable currency taking into account everything that makes today a stable currency, taking into account the environment in which we live, of course the problems in the euro zone, the problems we have today and with the achievement of the master criteria of which we are as a country quite far away. And all those problems that actually our currency has been pulling for 20 years. It means citizens don't trust her because if they believed her they'd probably be saving in her, they don't believe in business banks, then they wouldn't index their loans in foreign currency and not believe in all those who buy or sell real estate and then sell them or buy them along with the currency clause or actually for the euro. It all seems that way to me, it implies that there is no trust in our own currency as a basic instrument of monetary policy and actually implies that the CNB is not credible as an institution, in fact that it does not do its job. I think these are things we should work on more. And these may be some topics further for discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3020	Thank you. The distinguished representative Grozdana Peric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3021	We ourselves must actually be credible in the sense that we really trust our country, our government, and that we actually say here we believe exactly our kuna. Our history, what I'm talking about, has actually led us to do it through dinar, Croatian dinar and all those devaluations and depreciations that were that this uncertainty actually remained and that we've all tied everything practically to a foreign currency and that's exactly the euro. But I think that all of us together have to be sure what's going to happen we have to trust ourselves primarily and act as a state and as an individual so trust our currency, respect the debtor, respect the believer. Here's today at the club we say one institution was doing that that it was disarming the funds and she owed it to the suppliers. So we need to determine whether we want to have some money saved and be debtors to suppliers and then not allow all these kunas and each kuna to enter into circulation to strengthen that currency. Because it is actually a strengthening of the Croatian kuna if we believe that this kuna is actually a way to reconcile our obligations and pay our obligations to the state and to every supplier or believer. So here's the point.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3022	Thank you very much. The next is a replica of the esteemed representative of Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3023	Thank you. I did not understand the position on Article 2 of this Act, and it concerns the CNB's reports because you mentioned that non-acceptance or anything similar to the report should have certain consequences. In fact, Article 2 discusses two types of report, one half-yearly information on the financial situation is what we now have and now it is on the agenda and the other would be an annual report on work and business. I don't think that second report should go to the Parliament, possibly on the board, but it doesn't matter. However, Article 2 states that the Croatian Parliament is discussing the documents referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article for or against their adoption. First, we would have three times a year for the governor of the National Bank to report to the Parliament and vote on them. In the past session, there was a major dispute within the ruling majority whether or not to vote on the report at all. I am interested in the position, therefore, because the previous position of the HDZ club was not to vote on the report. You just mentioned something else. And, of course, one suggestion to the promoters, the Parliament can vote with abstention, the law says it's a yes or a no. That is not so, it is voted on the conclusion in which the report is accepted and not on the report itself as such. So correct it until the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3024	Thank you. The distinguished representative Grozdana Peric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3025	Well, here I was, saying that in any case we will wait for the opinion of the European Bank in that sense whether it is more instructed to accept the report or in which case it is possible to vote for or against or refrain, right. And further, in the second reading, the club and our coalition partners will also state how it will be the best quality so that it can be implemented both in a good way and in a good way.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3026	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Marina Skiboli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3027	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. So I don't think anyone questioned the independence of the Central Bank because the European System of Central Banks guarantees that independence and gives such a warrant. However, monetary policy as such is being questioned. Because the current monetary policy simply has a fatal impact on the economy. It is a restrictive monetary policy of high interest rates, small money supply and deflation. We today have a system of stagflation where wages fall and prices rise. That's the first thing. And the other thing is, it's not true that removing the currency clause would introduce destabilision. instability in the financial system because there has already been a situation where Croatian dinars have been converted into kunas and when the recalculation of all claims of commitments into kuna is carried out, the stability of the financial system is not compromised. So it was already a case. As I said, the current monetary policy is not positive for the economy, and this state-level revision should in fact question the monetary policy itself in the future. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3028	Thank you. The distinguished representative Grozdana Peric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3029	Well, it's all true what you've listed, but there's always a certain source to settle everything that's risky. So even then there were instruments and instruments that then calmed down all that risk. So here's what we're just commenting on, so the currency clause is not a commitment, it's a possibility, but the question is how much we trust our currency and then we say here I'm not going to raise a loan in euro, but I'm going to raise it in kuna. Now this has proved to be something that is an option that is possible and it's all a question of how much that kuna is worth, how much is the price of that capital, or what is the interest rate? So why did this flood of Swiss credit happen? Well, just because the interest rate was much lower than the euro. So the team was run by every man who thought that way not thinking that long-term that Swiss would actually devalue so much that it would actually be a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3030	And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Željko Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3031	Mr. President, my colleagues. Behind this... banking and this economical few short questions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If all credit institutions are controlled by the Croatian National Bank, it is possible to create some kind of parallel banking system. We've got zero contracts that aren't even based on domestic law. We have RBA cooperatives and I'm reading this brochure that was published by the CNB, we have item 7. So much capital between Croatia and abroad. I'm interested in foreign banks' money as it was brought out from 2006 to 13th 34 billion dollars is non-transparent there money from war profits, there's money from those who have accounts in Liechtenstein and other places like Austria, etc. That's my question. And the question is what is the synergy, why, what is the purpose of the Bank, is the National Bank if there is no synergy between it, this National Bank, USKOK and other ministries. That means she works in a vacuum. And the key issue is corruption, and it's the cancer of this society's wounds and all the postages of communist societies. I'd just mention hyper-inflation, which was until the 1990s. Only two countries had greater hyperinflation, Brazil and Zimbabwe, and we know what was the savings of Croatian customers in the former South and how it ended in Belgrade, the Ljubljanska Banka, etc. And we are, we should tell Croatian tax collectors what reality is in the state. And what's the reality? The only thing that doesn't exist is that hyperinflation. We have a 1.1 man working, 1 is retired. The situation is unsustainable, and we're still paying $7 billion in former Yugoslavia's debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3032	Thank you. There's no answer. However, the distinguished representative Peric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3033	I don't know, I can assume like you from where capital everything comes from, I don't know. But as a state of your time, you know that banks are privatized and we have several Croatian banks. Therefore, capital is something which and money is very, very flexible and there I can also assume as much as you do where it comes from or does not come from. But it's the fact that it's the law of supply and demand and that all that's required, that it has a certain price, and then it's interest that's then formed. Here's another one I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3034	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is the HSS on behalf of which the distinguished representative Davor Vlaovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3035	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Peasant Party Club on the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the Croatian National Bank also welcomes the proposal to demonstrate the business of the Croatian National Bank in a transparent manner. To be honest, we expected a stronger law, a more comprehensive, a deeper debate and a better solution to all these issues that we have been talking about this whole time. Because I would like to remind you that a few months ago, more precisely 3.3 this year, we discussed a report by the CNB on business in 2014 where we all agreed that we should find better solutions for the overall policy of economic, monetary, fiscal and all other policy to start an economy in Croatia, to help every man in the Republic of Croatia and to be equal in front of the laws of the Republic of Croatia. From this point on, it is visible in the very proposal for a law that the very sentence that the Croatian National Bank says is the worst at the level of transparency among the central banks of the countries of southern Europe, and we each stand and welcome the initiative to introduce the State Audit and to control the CNB. Because if it can be done in units of local, regional self-government and other state institutions, why not in the Croatian National Bank. Because if it often calls out to us parliamentary representatives, to the mayors, to the mayors to do non-transparent business, that they must go through the audit then the National Bank must also be the basis for an analysis of the State Audit in the debate here in the Croatian Parliament. So, the find on their business, on the transparency of spending money because it's our money. We gave them power through the law, and then we have the right to get information and discuss it. Of course, I also discussed 3.3 and pointed out that it is not important whether the report on the National Bank will be accepted, accepted or not, but that it is much more important that the business of the Croatian National Bank has produced this economic and monetary policy on the ground, and more importantly that after these reports we will make it better for tomorrow to be one society that will give hope to our man, our economy, crafts and entrepreneurship. And then I pointed out that such monetary policy led to more than 350 thousand people being blocked, that according to the latest statistical reports, there were over 800 thousand people in the Republic of Croatia at the poverty border, that in Slavonia and Baranja we woke up every morning with 14 people less and that more than 100 thousand young people had moved out of the Republic of Croatia, and mostly from Slavonia and Baranja, like and others, Zagorje and undeveloped parts of the Republic of Croatia. This is the result of the operation of the National Bank, commercial banks in the Republic of Croatia. And we ask ourselves, where were the Government and the Ministry? We heard here that the CNB was acting like a meteorologist, she announced a problem, there's a storm coming, there's an earthquake, and there's nothing behind it. And I ask who was supposed to be the thunderstone of this Croatian little man, who was supposed to help the credit user? And it was meant to help those who instructed him to go into credit lines and be in charge. From the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Trade and Entrepreneurship, the Ministry of Economy to the HBOR and ultimately the Government and the Minister of Finance. They say this is where the CNB speakers acted like that. We couldn't do anything about it. And the question is, how many initiatives were there from the finance minister, the economy minister to come to meetings, to point out problems and to look for solutions? We didn't get that information through these discussions, and the impression is that the governor was in the mood for such contacts, that's what he said here from this pay phone, come whenever there's a problem, let's talk about the problem and find a solution. It seems that there was no good communication such as there was no good communication either through the implementation of the Tourism Development Strategy where reports show that state bodies, different ministries did not communicate with each other and that we did not have positive effects. Of course the State Audit should enter the National Bank, give its report because it is incompatible that we have a credit default of nearly 7 billion, that the loan default has increased over 48 billion, and that the National Bank has not responded. Just as it did not react in the case of Swiss, or other monetary institutions that entered the Republic of Croatia and did not have a license to operate in the Republic of Croatia. And we need a comprehensive debate on the operation of the National Bank, on the overall monetary and fiscal policy in the Republic of Croatia, because we need to find ways to help our agricultural producer, craftsman, entrepreneur, every man. There is no small man in Croatia as said here. We're all equal, we all want to live off our work. No small party, no small parliamentary representative. We're all the same here, and we need to be all on the same path so that through these legal solutions we don't just do cosmetics, the mask and the problem stays behind. Because what after the State Audit Report? Are we gonna take it or not? State audits usually make proposals on what needs to be resolved and how certain irregularities in business should be corrected. But we often had reports like that here and nothing happened. And I asked and then and now I repeat that the State Audit that they gave us for correcting irregularities, what's the time limit to get rid of it, and what if it doesn't work out, who's going to answer, and in what way? Only then does this make any real sense. Because most of the credit rating in the Republic of Croatia is towards the citizens. The economy is simply in stagnation regarding investment and use of credit lines. And the country where such credit rating is no development and no progress. The European Commission, the Central European Bank, the commercial banks sat together and through Juncker's plan and through other financial activities stimulate growth and economic development and have succeeded. We see that economic growth is present in Europe, which is also being held in the Republic of Croatia. When demand for goods from the Republic of Croatia has increased, especially from wood-processing industry, metal-processing and other industries. And we haven't found a way to help our exporters be competitive. The question is whether the stability of the kuna is always in favor of our economy. If we are already afraid of inflation, and we can see that even deflation is not good, we need to find other models of how to find the model of the credit facility to the credit users, first of all according to craftsmen, entrepreneurs and the most difficult situation is in agriculture because the lowest amount of credit was according to family farms and agricultural companies. And we have a situation today that our people have no one to sell flowers to, there's a lot left not sold yesterday, and there's a huge import of flowers. We didn't even find a model here to solve it. We also found no solution for those users of operational programmes in pigmeat and livestock, the production of milk where, through HBOR, the Ministry of Agriculture, through the co-financing of interest from local self-government and regional self-government units, we practically took over the role of banks and the CNB instead of having initiated and found ways of taking over units of local and regional self-government and stimulating and subsidising these people's interest. And what happened? You know they had to give the bonds, that they had to provide insurance for their loans, and that they had to have a sales contract for their goods in the contract. And their buyer has unilaterally changed the price of their products. The most drastic example is on milk where the contract price was between 3.5 and 4.2 kuna per litre of milk through operational programmes in cattle and dairy, and you know that it is below 2 kuna today. And no one reacted, not the Ministry of Agriculture, not the HBOR or the National Bank to help these people. And over 50,000 have been blocked right from the order of family farms and d.o.o. from agriculture. Here, these are the reasons where the HSS supports order and to enter with the State Audit into the business of the CNB, but we ask the new Government to bring a comprehensive model of business to the CNB, commercial banks in the Republic of Croatia supported by resolution ministries to raise economic activity because the CNB can and must be a tool along with these institutions to strengthen economic activity in the Republic of Croatia. Let's be really groovy about our OPGs, our craftsmen and entrepreneurs, let's go make laws that will contribute to economic growth and development, reduce poverty and give young people a chance to get a job, not that we can't even ask how much the governor has to pay, how much he spent on the diaries, and we have to give everyone his property card that everyone knows her and that everyone's talking about us that we are like this or like this. It must not be untouchable we must be all transparent in our business, including the National Bank, and we expect this law to be read by association even in that part through discussions with competent institutions, through discussions with the State Audit, because here in the bill and here is a well-intentioned suggestion, says no additional means will be needed to implement this law. So think about it and talk to the representatives of the State Audit, and I think they're gonna need new people, new techniques, and there's going to be certain costs. I don't know if I can make up for it from my own reserves, talk to them and see how to solve it, and solve the problem with the central European bank and find a model and how to have real control over the business of the CNB and that if we don't adopt the report, we know what to do and how to react in such a situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3036	Thank you very much. And your exposure has caused more replicas. She's the first one to represent Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3037	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Vlaović, I would like to agree with you in this section that monetary policy also runs a certain economic activity together with all ministries and competent authorities can launch processes in Croatia to develop largely undeveloped areas, so you have also gone to dairy production, agriculture. Of course, it is amazing that in Croatia today we have abandoned Slavonia, Dalmatia Zagora, Lika, you said that you cannot sell the basic needs of farmers that the Croatian market needs and imports, for example. Mandarins down from Neretva into you something else. But the fact that it was invested in the dairy production of five billion kuna from 64 thousand producers came to four thousand and 900 producers, so the money was given now is a question to whom these incentives were raised. As for the revision of the state audit itself, so we were in the past term, and you said in the third month, you were at the club with HDZ, then the Most Independent Lists, here we are, Professor Linic... this session because she didn't want to include the agenda point, at which point I don't know if you were so expressing what you just mentioned. It is very important and this step is important because the debate is opened and this autumn is only a step towards monetary policy and debate of what this Croatian House can do in accordance with laws and regulations. And, of course, what's not right to change, and I hope you said you'd support this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3038	Thank you. The distinguished representative Davor Vlaovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3039	Thank you, dear fellow Bull. I said I welcome the initiative to be made transparently through the State Audit report on the business of the CNB and I said that it was only one step and I said that in that debate in the spring we required a comprehensive debate and a complete solution, it cannot be resolved through one law through a complete economic and monetary crisis in the Republic of Croatia, but that this is now an opportunity if we already put into debate this law that we could have a little more grip on it, not just through this part to introduce the State Audit. Of course, I welcome the initiative that the State Audit is also working in the CNB but that through economic policies, through monetary policies, if the EU could do so through its models, why not rephrase it into the Republic of Croatia and help the dairy producer and the meat producer or any other craftsman and entrepreneur, and not left alone. I said neither the Ministry of Agriculture nor the Ministry of Economy nor the HBOR, nor the CNB were responding at the time when the unilateral terms of the contract changed and thus those craftsmen and entrepreneurs and even the agricultural producers led to the fact that they could not repay their loans and this resulted in what you said, the reduction of production and milk and meat and all other agricultural products. And we say that there are terrible potentials that this is a comparative advantage for us, and unfortunately we don't use it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3040	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3041	Your Honor, Vice President. A colleague of Vlaović, you said that we should have done more radically with this proposal, and here we only asked that the CNB as an institution do transparent business, that its work was prescribed by the State Audit, and we wanted to respect the independence of the CNB at the same time. Here we heard here and on this proposal of ours which is how you say some small step, we heard from fellow Sauche that this is Lex Vujčić and that this is a deal with the governor, so imagine what it would be like if we tried to catch more radically. And as for these proposals to find some quality solutions through the debate, we're open to it. We have heard perhaps some good suggestions from colleagues Lalovac and colleagues, Alexic, perhaps to place full employment as the goal of the CNB, which would also affect some of the mechanisms and policies of the CNB itself. So as for these requests of yours for more radical suggestions, I'd like you to say what these proposals are and what we can do about it, and we'll be very happy to respect your suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3042	Thank you. The distinguished representative Davor Vlaovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3043	Thank you very much. Well, here's a distinguished colleague of Grmoy and me and we at HSS agree that the CNB must have independence in its business, but that this independence and overall policies can and should be in function of economic growth and development of the Republic of Croatia, of course in agreement with the Government, the Ministry of Finance and other institutions. I also mentioned that we need to find new models, so here's our banking system operating under European rules, it's a lot of tough and tough system, and we see that our economy can't get to that capital, that and most of the credit business is exactly up to citizens, while this part of our investment activities and credit placement towards craftsmen and entrepreneurs is in decline and that our banks are simply looking for solutions and they can't find it themselves, and that's why we need this role of government, ministries and all of us to talk about making certain proposals. So here's one of the models and the proposals already discussed, and you've repeatedly mentioned it being put into function and state-owned assets that are currently not in function of the economy, and one of the models might be to be some kind of guarantee real estate fund where for certain investments of state interest, different entrepreneurs could go with a guarantee of this investment and thus facilitate the placement of funds to entrepreneurship. And I also mentioned this part that this model of state audit should be developed in the National Bank and through the budget that is for both the following year and for the Republic of Croatia, a part of the funds for this activity must surely be transferred. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3044	Thank you for the next replica of the respected representative Drazen Bošnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3045	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Vlaovic, you have also pointed out in your presentation many of the negative phenomena that have been happening with us on our market and in the economy and in the economy and in the management and it is difficult to resent and that more or less everything you have said stands. However, for a large part of these negativitys, these bad occurrences are indeed CNBs and are not responsible, it is responsible everywhere where we had credited by business banks and, in fact, as a result of the poor supervision of the business banks that our central bank had to carry out, it had to actually warn the general public and these banks in fact to coordinate their business with some of our legal regulations so that there would be no negativity. It's certainly yes, you said there was one deeper, wider debate even about this law, amendments to the CNB law, and there's no doubt that this is the only place where it can be done. Because the Republic of Croatia is the only founder of the CNB and if someone has to discuss it about its place and role and in the whole system it is the Croatian Parliament. Important powers, important functions and important responsibilities of the CNB have come from the issue of money, the management of bank accounts, the conduct of a business account by the Republic of Croatia itself, so that we do not have to discuss here. In my opinion, even this fact is whether we're going to vote on that report or not, she's even by my side. It is important that we have the right to debate and it is important that we have the right to point out everything that is not good in her business and whoever wants to hear it will and if we need to, we can still go with the other measures that are at our disposal then. But what's important is why I'm pushing for this law to be parallel in the debate with the State Audit Act, about the State Audit Office, because these are two complementary laws and de facto one and the other bond. We cannot prescribe jurisdiction for the State Audit Office only by this law, but we must also specify it in this second law. So for a second reading, I believe we'll coordinate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3046	Thank you. The respected representative Vlaovic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3047	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Bošnjakovic agrees fully with you, and that is why I pointed out this problem to the second reading with the state audit to be held in talks and to see how they see this new job because they have never done so before and where there are potential difficulties and whether they need to be provided with what they need from the resources. And of course I agree with you that these two laws should go parallel to the debate, but I wonder why not. Let's make quality laws to be enforceable and if we bring them and agree with each other at the same time, then they will certainly be qualitatively enforceable for the benefit of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3048	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Krizanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3049	Dear Vice President. Comrade Vlaovic, you said you expected a stronger law and a broader report on the overall policy for the start-up of the economy. This is where I fully agree with you especially because we come from the same sector, we often talk about agriculture. And I'll be happy to support your specific suggestions in that part. However, I want to say two, three sentences, it would be good to say in the CNB, the CNB came from initiatives, and especially in the agriculture sector through HBOR, to place loans with 1% or 0.5%, and then it wouldn't have happened that our farmers, especially the poultry who entered the transition period from the EU, when we entered the EU we wouldn't have come into a situation to find ourselves now importing 25% of the eggs in which we were only available in the past year and it wouldn't have happened that those eggs came from Poland and that from the last century, I'm Caricing a little, so that old months of the day and then there was a threat like the last few days, and we didn't say one word in this House, but there will come the time, and I'll say something about it. So it's not the only job of the CNB just to make profits and profits, but also to inject funds into the economy. And surely agriculture is crying out for such means. All farmers ask me where the 1% funds are, where the 0.5% funds that promise our commercial banks there is no such funds in agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3050	The respected representative Vlaovic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3051	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Križanić, I fully agree with you that the CNB must be a partner to the ministries in finding the way and model of payment of funds towards potential users of credit funds for their investments. Of course, the CNB can't be that, but the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development and other commercial banks supported through quality legal proposals and the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture together through the discussions that we will certainly have to contribute to this, but unfortunately we have witnessed that there are no such loans on our market, and what I have already said in my presentation that people have been left alone on the market even though they were encouraged by both us and local and regional self-government it should be said openly by the advisory services and resolution ministries to go into investments, that we should raise the level of production, that we have self-sufficiency and milk, and in the meat, in eggs, mandarins, in wine, in several products we only had self-sufficiency for the needs of the Croatian market. But at this point, it is questionable whether other than wine and mandarin we have in anything more self-sufficiency and these sectors will certainly come into question unless a quality program is created. We talked about the strategy for the development of agriculture, we talked about the need to adopt the urgency of the Protection Act against unfair commercial practices. Unfortunately, we didn't do it, and I'm asking you to do it as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3052	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3053	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues here at this highest home in the Republic of Croatia in the quarter of the century were often told that Croatian kuna should be in the Croatian wallet from the time we had Croatian banks, but they went the way they left. And today we have the CNB which is like an island that is very difficult to reach, and this highest home here should certainly know how it works and how decisions are made and how it plans for the CNB because it caused a lot of problems. There he would have to agree with his colleague Pernar who talked about it and about many blocked and executed because banks have been acting the way they are all these years, and whoever the regulator was is exactly the CNB that didn't get there well. It is very difficult without the proper revision of the state to see how the National Bank works just by saying that this former finance minister Mr. Lalovac has said how large reports are which are essentially statistical reports with 500, 600 pages in total. It is very difficult to see how the CNB works, therefore a state audit is necessary to determine exactly what is being done there in the bank. Unfortunately, this bill proposed by MOST, and I think that it will only scratch one surface to justify itself before its voters for its guarantees and that this will not ultimately be the real solution that should be made in the National Bank to these amendments of the law. So it really is what the point is, and thus the proof is that money is being printed abroad, which is really inadmissible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3054	Thank you. The distinguished representative Vlaovic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3055	Thank you, dear colleague. Well, I said that this amendment to the National Bank Act is a good first step, but it certainly isn't enough for all these problems that I and you have been talking about to solve and, of course, that a state audit on the business of the CNB is needed. It has already been mentioned because of problems with Swiss people where they have not responded and problems with these savings-credit cooperatives that have operated in Croatia without a license and because of the simple change of terms from the credit-user contract and a number of other things. And it stuck to me in one of the reports, I think for 2012 that for the same business year on the same subject, the difference was only 250 million kuna from the same reporter and that was the CNB. Generally inconceivable that they are allowing such a gaff and surely there are problems and that through both this law and other laws should be placed in control of both the CNB and all other financial institutions in the Republic of Croatia, and of course that in our first focus of interest they are citizens of the Republic of Croatia as potential users of these funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3056	Thank you. And the last replica will be the distinguished representative of Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3057	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Vlaović, I am pleased that you have noticed this inaction by the CNB because it has just made it possible for us to do all that has happened. I'm really surprised at Governor Rohatinski who probably communicated with all the other governors in the EU. So the Austrian banks owned by the bank of mothers located in Austria are the main generators of the franc problem. The Austrian National Bank has just ordered banks operating in Austria to warn debtors who intend to negotiate a Swiss franc currency clause at more than 20 risks. And after that, when that wasn't enough, she banned the currency clause franc in all consumer loans. Why didn't the CNB do the same thing that the Austrian National Bank did? The second question I ask is, why didn't the CNB stop the illegal contractual provisions on loans? After we warned them about it? On the contrary, it remains, the CNB continued to think that banks in Croatia were operating legally and it is today. So this one inertness, one lack of proactiveity is the main reason why we have the problems we have. And that really requires one additional proactiveity in the CNB in order to actually monitor, real regulation and real supervisory of Croatian banks, not to be just in the formal sense that it has been so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3058	Thank you very much. The distinguished representative Vlaovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3059	Thank you, dear colleague Alexic. Well, in most of it we agree, and I'd just say that we're all talking about the National Bank now and the guilt of the governors and the people who managed this institution but I said it and I'll repeat it to me it's not just their fault. That where was the initiative of the finance minister, the other resolution ministries, the government to seek solutions? Because if he was a meteorologist, we weren't supposed to buy umbrellas for our citizens and we didn't buy it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3060	Thank you very much. We ended this debate and we would now stop and continue our individual debates tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. Thank you very much. See you tomorrow! Session interrupted at 16.47 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3061	Dear fellow MPs and fellow MPs, I warmly welcome you all. We continue the debate on the agenda of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Croatian National Bank, first reading. There's an individual debate coming up. The first came to the hearing by a distinguished colleague, Mr. Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3062	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here after yesterday and the debate over the CNB is the impression that most of the clubs are representatives of the Croatian Parliament for amendments to this law. I am also in favour of amending this law and I think that, as for transparency, we should have more insight into what is happening in the Croatian National Bank. The only thing that I think is that, although this law comes as one of the conditions of MOST guarantees in the Croatian Parliament, it really may not be the order of priorities and is not the most important thing in Croatia at this time. Our citizens expect much more from us to discuss monetary policy, fiscal policy, tax reform that is terribly unfair, which takes those who are the poorest, and gives to those who are the richest. On the other hand, I see here that MOST is trying to bring more transparency into the CNB, and on the other hand they support a reform that will increase salaries to the Council and people in the Croatian National Bank 3 to 4000 kuna. So nothing to the citizens, they're 900,000 with no kuna, 600,000 with 100, 150 kuna, but MOST and HDZ support a reform that will increase the salary of 3 to 4000 kuna for Governor Vujčić and the people in the CNB. And that is exactly what should be discussed in the Croatian Parliament, not whether tomorrow or in a year's time we will see whether Governor Vujčić was on his way or ate some shrimp, but which is why a tax reform is proposed which increases 4 thousand kunas and pays to the people of Croatia's national bank already well, while a million and a half Croatian citizens will have nothing of it. It's the right thing to do, and that's what we need to talk about here. On the other hand, we saw the immediate reaction of both the CNB and the Central European Bank which yesterday in our media explains that the law is unclear. And someone asked for an opinion, yesterday he got it that the law was unclear and that he should not vote on the CNB report in the Croatian Parliament. I don't agree with that, and I think we should vote. I understand why they want it. They want the reports to be taken into account every year without voting so that the Croatian Parliament does not assess whether it is satisfied or not with the work of the Croatian National Bank. I want to vote on it and I want us here to say whether we are satisfied or not with the work of the Croatian National Bank. Because I'm not happy when the Croatian National Bank has been ignoring the problems of the Swiss franc in recent years, when it says that the banks didn't make a profit on the Swiss franc, when the last or the last pre-government, this past has lasted so long, it seems like it wasn't even there. The previous government has been dramatically warned by the letter of Governor Vujčić and says do not pass the law, you will endanger the stability of the kuna and you will endanger the borrowing, or the financing of the state in the coming years. What happened? Is Kuna stable? It is. Is the state being financed properly? He's funding. Which is why it is so dramatic a few weeks before the law was passed warned the Croatian government not to pass the law to help 53,000 Croatian families and to allow them to live more easily and see some light at the end of the tunnel. This tells me that I want to vote every year on the CNB, that citizens say indirectly through their representatives what they think about whether the Croatian National Bank is in the interest of Croatia, the Croatian people and whether it protects the interest of citizens. It's a substance, and that's why I support this law. I think we also have examples in the EU where they vote that way. Yesterday we saw from the vice governor that he said that the Czech Republic does it that way and says it's the only one. So, Croatia can be another country in the EU and why we should not have the opportunity to express our position. On the other hand, I'm a little surprised by the change of attitudes in HDZ that have, for the past nine months, prevented this from coming to a vote, to open a debate on the CNB because there was a deal between Karamark and the governor, there was obviously a deal not to be touched. And on that side, I would like to once again confess to my colleagues at the Most what the deal did not support. Because if there was no need at this point for most HDZ, it would still support that part. As in five to twelve last year, he supported the Law on the conversion of the Swiss franc because they were forced to the wall. They did not support it honestly, but because they had to, they did not want to remain the only ones in the assembly who do not support Croatian people and those who have come into an unfavourable situation regarding loans in the Swiss franc. Otherwise I tell you 54 thousand Croatian families 94% converted loans. Of which, each of these people on average has overpaid 15 thousand kuna, and 150 thousand kuna is lower on average than the principal. To see how much we helped people. And did the banks stop working? Are they having problems, aren't they adequately capitalized, are they lacking capital? No, it's all happening the most normal and still. And the CNB knew all this before, but it still warned the Croatian government not to pass the law. On the other hand, what I want is once again highlighted, I support that law, and I think it's a good idea to bring it in. I sincerely support him, unlike HDZ, who has been forced to support him for most of it. And once again I will say, I also give recognition to MOST because if it wasn't for most in the Croatian Parliament, that law would never have been seen or voted on by Governor Vujcic, it would have been possible to get another mandate without anyone telling either A from HDZ. And on that side, I think this is a step forward to seeing what's going on there. But once again, I would like to say that MOST's terms are a debate on tax reform, that a million and a half people get nothing, and people in the CNB get salaries of 3 to 4 thousand kuna, that people in the INA administration get an average salary more. So, here are the people who admit themselves that they are doing nothing in INA, that they are marginalized with the tax reform MOST and HDZ will have 6 thousand kunas more salary net, average Croatian salary. And that's why people call this reform super hick reform and that's why it's not supported or supported. Of course, MOST and HDZ will vote mostly by force that people are trying to live, that they have higher costs and that the rich have more money. And we can never support this, and so here I appeal once again to the Most that when we talk about the conditions set out in terms that are in the interest of Croatian citizens and not in the interest of the media and the debate here in the Parliament whether Vujcic went to shrimp or octopus. I don't think that's the main interest of Croatian citizens. Another thing that has come into my eye in this law says in reason for the research most lenient in Southeast Europe with Albania, Romania, etc. Watch usually when it's written, then it's written which research, who did it. I mean, maybe it was Mr. Bull's and Grmoya's research, you know? So we don't know who did those research. Perhaps these two sat well on the Internet, Googled and did research and concluded themselves that the CNB is the most lenient in Southeast Europe. So when we write something like that, I say it for the seriousness of the proposal and, in the future, my colleagues from the Most, pay attention to it. When we're talking about research, you have to write down who did it, is it relevant that we all know what we're talking about together and not throw it out of the way? I can thus say that my colleague Reiner is one of the strongest, most indemnity leaders of the Parliament's session. But in my opinion, he means differently. So, on that side, we have to make proposals for laws and references and points that would tell us how we can call on certain data. Here it is, I'll uphold the law but I'd like to discuss really important topics in this House, not topics that will entertain the public for one or two days.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3063	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras, for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague named Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3064	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow I must agree immediately with one part of your presentation where you have pointed out essentially something that is a fact, which is that we have been discussing here for the third week things that are entirely irrelevant to the real problems of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Except for the issue of the executive law which partially touched real and serious problems, all other proposals are de facto dealing with themselves. And it seems to me that we are only here to create some kind of smoke-screen to cast some kind of blackness so as not to see what the Government of the Republic of Croatia is doing. And that is exactly where you pointed out, it is carrying out a tax reform that will further impoverish the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, while at the same time destroying the most important industrial branch of the Republic of Croatia, which is Croatian tourism by increasing the VAT rate. However, for a moment I will return to this bill. You mentioned that yesterday the opinion of the European Central Bank was published. That's right. The European Central Bank delivered its opinion on this bill to the CNB and the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Croatia, within the framework of its competence stemming from the EU's operating contract. However, the promoters had no need to inform the Croatian Parliament that this opinion was requested, but yesterday I replicated to Mr Panenic, who is not here today, and I invited him to deliver the earlier opinion and we got a new opinion yesterday. A new one that points to a series of problems with the way this law was made and instructions on how to correct it. We can agree or disagree on whether that opinion should be followed, but the EU's operating agreement is an obligation to obey it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3065	I thank Mr. Grbino for this replica. Replication response, dear colleague Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3066	Thank you very much. Mr. coat of arms, it's absolutely a smoke screen. There is no other logical explanation for this under quotes "debate" on a subject that is not crucial, so I believe that colleagues in MOST are serious enough to realize that this is not a topic that will crucially solve the problems of Croatian citizens. If they realize it, and I believe they understand it, then the only logical answer is that it's a smokescreen so that more important things can be pushed under the grain to make people pay more, to raise VAT, so that hundreds of thousands of people who work in the tourism sector will have problems next year. 12% of people spend overnight, so this job can't last the next year, and even if they raise prices, they're going to lose traffic because people don't have money because we've released only the richest ones who don't care if 12% is more expensive or cheaper. Those who are the biggest consumers of our citizens won't get anything, they'll get a hundred kunas a month. Well, he won't drink it for coffee and drink it. And it's a smoke screen. So once again, I'm going to say, they're raising the INA administration's average salary by six thousand kunas a month. I've said enough, I don't need to talk anymore, six thousand kunas per month to people who have admitted themselves to doing nothing, and a million and a half people in Croatia will get nothing from tax reform and it's a smoke screen. And on the other hand, I support my fellow MOST to the European Central Bank, and no one has the right to set up a high position with one state and representatives in that country, they made fun of them yesterday if you saw their statement. You can't let that happen. And if that's the only reason I'm gonna back this bill, I'm gonna back it. They will not explain to colleagues from MOST what they are allowed to do, what they cannot write in the law and will not, in this way, defend their own here, I would tell self-deliverers and technical workers who must lead more interest in our citizens than what someone tells them from Frankfurt.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3067	I thank my colleague Maras for his reply to the replica. The next one came from a respected counterpart Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3068	Your Honor, Vice President. Well, first of all, here's what you've been doing. You've been making a good point about your colleague Maras, so is this law here for the citizens? It's not about the citizens. Will this law make the citizens live better? He's not gonna live any better. This law has little fun for the Croatian public, based on the principle of bread and games, with no bread. Because of this, people won't be able to raise cheaper loans, and the campaign promised to abolish the exchange clauses, offer certain things that weren't real, and now the impression is being made that there are guarantees that are actually left behind. The subscription for HRT has not been reduced, the economic belt has not been declared. We actually have what you said yourself to a smoke screen or to create an impression that something is done while nothing is actually done. Instead, in this bill of law, I'll remind you, I said it yesterday, and today I'm going to do it again, we have a river towel where the state's office gets involved in the confidential information of the CNB. My people, no government has dared to touch monetary stability and Croatian Kuna, stability of the Croatian Kuna so far. If monetary policy is to be discussed, it can and should be discussed in the Parliament. I suggest we return this debate to the Parliament, not to discuss personal relations, not to discuss something that will not help Croatian citizens to live better, but not to risk a small garden and not introduce an experiment that can lead to confidential information that can disrupt the stability of the Croatian Kuna. No government has ever done that. We've had enough of my men. So you put together a government, a week after that you changed it, you sent guarantees, you changed them a week later, you announced tax reform, a week after that you announced changes. Let's not experiment with citizens and Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3069	I thank my colleague Bernardic. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3070	Thank you very much. The circle and games absolutely, here's the picture here. I'll explain to everyone what this is all about. They took Boris Vujčića MOST and HDZ and threw it to the lions, and on the other hand, Maric and Dalićka go and take the caterers, take the citizens, and while Vujčić defends himself on the one hand, Maric and Dalićka buy the money. It's very simple. The hosts of 50 thousand of them craftsmen in Croatia who work will pay 12% more, but no, it doesn't matter, watch Vujčić we will control him because he eats shrimp, and you 50 thousand at that time will take Maric and Dalićka down by 12%. It's very picturesque this way you can see it. And basically what's going on? Don't worry about the citizens, don't worry about what's right, what's right because it's wrong to pay someone six thousand kuna. Here's a proposal for tax reform. Raise the highest tax rate 50% to the richest. Why don't you do it? There's no need to tell stories about whether I don't know this one, and I see Mr. Bulj commenting on whether the parliamentary representatives will have a higher salary, so put 50% on 20 thousand kuna, at 22,000 kuna, and they won't have any. But then there won't be any members of the INA administration of six thousand kunas more than there will be five, six thousand kunas. Did someone who has 130 thousand kunas of gross wages deserve to pay five thousand kunas more, or did you give him six thousand kunas a month to have more for your salary? These are the real things we need to discuss here.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3071	I thank my colleague Maras. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3072	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Maras, I agree with you that we should discuss important topics here. When it comes to tax reform, I will mention only the example of Slavonia, if the hospitality increases VAT, then it is unsustainable in Slavonia. It is not the same to have a cafe in Slavonia or, say, at sea because you can't lower the price of beer below ten kuna, which the minister warned of even though VAT was reduced that the prices in the catering were not reduced. So this tax reform will certainly be felt in Slavonia but what I do not agree with my colleague, Grumoja, what I do not agree with my colleague Maras, he said that MOST and HDZ have prepared this tax reform. It seems to me that the Most has not yet been manifested, so I have the impression that the Most in this reform has not been very much involved in the development of this reform. Let MOST colleagues deny it if not, but we expect MOST to say its final position about it. And as for the CNB, as it started, so it continued, I don't know if it's going to end. We're in '91. Introduced a fine for years, it was called HRD, a Croatian dinar. I remember that then some people who knew how to drive a truck drove a lot of money to a neighboring country and then returned valuable stamps for it, and one individual put out a $3 billion bill for that rip-off, I guess that was something like that. So what it is, which the CNB of that moment, and it is set such a general goal that it is actually in charge of Article 3 of retaining price stability. In fact, the CNB has never done anything more than that, nor has it controlled what is happening on the market, and the Swiss franc and other loans are mentioned here. Today, otherwise we're a highly eurored country, so here's when you're selling a car or an apartment, when someone asks you how much you're looking for, or when you ask someone how much he says 10 grand, it doesn't even matter that they're talking about how much they're doing with euro. I'm sure it's not about forints. So any change in the exchange rate would have consequences especially for citizens' loans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3073	I'd like to thank my colleague, Sagaru, for the replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3074	Thank you very much. Comrade Sagar, you mentioned well that Slavonia would, as in many cases, suffer from the changes in the law here has suffered perhaps the most because it is the most people who will not get anything. In Slavonia, the least people have money and will not benefit from the tax reform implemented by HDZ and MOST. Just as it will not benefit, I said 50,000 craftsmen are in Croatia, if I were the President of the Chamber of crafts, I would camp there in front of the Croatian Parliament. And I call on all the craftsmen to come here and tell the people of the Most and HDZ what they think about their tax reform and when they come for coffee so they don't put sugar on them, let their coffee be bitter, let them see that they make it harder for people who shouldn't make it harder. And on the other hand, I'm going to tell you one more time, about the CNB and what is proposed in this law, I don't think that's crucial, but I think we should go that way. And I wish this law were not the most important for MOST, but it is a tax reform, and I would like to adopt that law because I do not think that the European Central Bank can be set up this way towards the Croatian Parliament and the Member States. He can't, so look at what it says in the paper, that the law from the hills, from the valley, that nothing is understood, that there's no knowing what will be audited and that he's not consistent and that he can't vote. Look, they're telling us not to vote on the CNB report. So with what right? So we set them up. So what does it mean that in six years we can't re-elected the new governor of the CNB? Here's 2018 is the election of a new governor, then we'll vote for all six years. We have the right to vote if they have the right of the Czechs to have Croats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3075	I thank my dear colleague, Maras, for his reply to the replica. An honorary colleague, Miro Bulj, reported for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3076	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Infringement of Rules 232. The speaker can only talk about the subject under the established agenda. If the speaker is away from the topic, the chairman, you, Mr. President, must warn him. Today it's about the CNB, or the reforms, or maybe it was, maybe it was a complement to the agenda, so it's yours, so if the speaker is away, and it's constantly talking about a whole other topic to warn him, whoever it was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3077	Thank you, dear fellow Bull. In part, I agree with your attitude and your thinking but if we were to judge or judge and take away the word then none of the MPs would speak on any subject, because in any presentation of the fellow MPs, there are always other topics being discussed, and that is the introduction to the main topic. I would appeal to all of you and MPs and MPs to strictly stick to the topic we are discussing and this introductory part that introduces us to be as brief as possible without these major squadrons. Here, thanks again. We're continuing to report the replicas. The next call came from a esteemed colleague, Nicole Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3078	Your Honor, Vice President. Here I would like to thank my colleague Maras for supporting this law, and it is obvious that he and his colleague, Lalovac, represent a sovereign position in which we will not allow anyone from Europe to vote on the report by Governor Vujčić, or we will not. But obviously, inside your club, or within your party, there are other thoughts, so yesterday we heard a fellow Sach who says this is a deal with Governor Vujcic or Mr Bernardic, who appears here and then constantly repeats some mantra that has nothing to do with the debate, so no one is talking about destabilizing the kuna, the monetary system, so it's not at all a topic of debate. So I thank you for your support and for holding tightly that sovereign position. I agree with you that what came out of the morning list about the warning because of the meaning of the CNB is absolutely not standing. All these remarks we have observed, so we do not want to touch the independence of the CNB, it is only about the entry of the audit. And I agree with you that on the CNB report we have the right here in this High House to vote in order to send a certain message. As for the fact that me and my colleague Bulj were doing some kind of transparency analysis, we don't imagine that we can do the same analysis as we don't imagine we can be, for example. Quality ministers of entrepreneurship without working day in the real sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3079	I thank my esteemed colleague Grumoji for the replica. The answer to the line, dear colleague Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3080	Well, that's good for you not to imagine. That's good, be firm on earth, you're a humble man, it's seen on you, a self-obsessed and modest man by the name of Nicola Grmoy. So I commend you, and so continue in your political work you will get far. And to you, Mr. Chairman, I thank you for protecting the MPs so that they can talk not only about the topics they want to talk about in MOST, it's so-called. Metkovic's Rules of Procedure. So you're only talking about what we Metkovic want you to say. I will talk about what bothers Croatian citizens and no one here will stop me, if my word is taken from me, it is according to the Rules of Procedure, but again tomorrow I will continue to speak further because of what citizens expect of us. As far as my colleague Lalovec and I are concerned, you are right, as far as you are concerned, you are not Sauche. He said exactly in this context in which I was telling you. You threw wolves with lions and on the other hand Dalic and Maric take money from people. It's a very simple formula. Look over there, you know, when someone shows a look up there, what they got, and while this guy's looking, he's taking this one out of his pocket. So that's the variant I don't support distracting attention from the most important issues, and on that side, citizens won't have much use for this. And I'd give you one more, give you one piece of advice since you're a young representative, you get experience, but you're going well, keep going, don't trust the portals directly.hr, Dnevno.hr. So look at the resume, I'll mail it to you, and you'll see where I've been doing, what I've been doing. I may not have as impressive a biography as you do, I know it's not easy to achieve these successes you've made but I've been doing something and I've learned something in my life.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3081	I thank my dear colleague, Maras, for his reply to the replica. Next to the replica, distinguished counterpart Ivan Lovrinovic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3082	Dear Representative Maras, I can't help but notice at the beginning that the pre-election campaign in the SDP is in full swing, to make a joke. But I agree with you on these sovereign statements that I will also protect and be on the side of every party in this House that defends the interest of Croatian citizens and that this is the most important place where we must defend the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. But a few months ago when I was in the MOST and I started this topic of amending the CNB Act, I collected signatures and collected 45 signatures along with Dr. Maric Goran. I'm sorry that no one in the SDP then signed, although I realized after the talks that people would give but I understand the political context then between HDZ-SDP, but I agree with you that the HDZ summit then strongly supported this law and here, and today I will commend the Most again even though I have come out of the Most that it has the political courage to bring this to an end. I agree with you that monetary policy should be discussed but I disagree with you that you think this law is not so important and that it's a human dealing, it's not. Well, just because of this HNB Act, that institution acts like a state state. But here you would ask one thing at the end, you see us here in the consolidated agenda the third point half-yearly information about the financial situation, the degree of price stability and monetary policy. Isn't this strange and I suggest that we move this thing one ten, fifteen places because we haven't adopted, wait for this law to be passed, the amendments to the CNB law so that we can vote. Do you agree with that?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3083	I thank my esteemed colleague Lovrinovic for his replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3084	Well, I couldn't agree more. So there's no point in discussing something that the law will include voting on it. It is, of course, on the leadership of the Parliament, they can put this report in place after the adoption of this law in another reading. And I expect the president of Mr. Petrov's assembly not to discuss this matter until we pass this law so that I can also say to materialise what the Most is proposing here. That would be consistent policy. But you noticed exactly what you said at the beginning. So there's no need for 13 hands or 14, 15 I don't know how many. This would not come on the agenda, and it should give recognition to the people of the Most because the Karamarko-Vucic agreement would remain in effect. It was one agreement from a restaurant in the City of Zagreb and it was very tight. But as things change quickly in HDZ, obviously, that deal is no longer valid. So on that side, it's good to go in this direction and it's good that we'll be able to control the CNB a little bit tighter at least in this financial transparent work.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3085	I thank my colleague Maras for his reply to the replica. Next to the replica, a distinguished fellow vice president of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Academyman Željko Reiner, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3086	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Maras, we often have opportunities to hear various demagogue statements in this room, but this is how you counted among the more prominent ones today. You mentioned seriousness, and is it serious to talk about laws, monetary and tax reform that none of us have seen, that have yet to come to this House? And all your knowledge as well as my knowledge comes from those portals you mentioned, from the media, etc. So you devoted most of your speech to something you didn't read because you didn't see it, and you talked here about how 1.5 million people would stay poor because of it, mentioning that some of them would get huge amounts of money, others would get poor, etc. All based on nothing, so based on the fact that you didn't see those laws at all. I'm glad that besides the other qualities you possess, you have visibility, because you said that HDZ, that you sincerely support this and HDZ didn't truly support that story about Frank, etc. And that all this was designed just so that I didn't know Governor Vujčić was blackened, etc. But do you really think that everyone is completely forgotten and that they do not remember, that your party has just put Governor Vujčić on because he was a personal friend of the president of your party Zoran Milanovic, and now suddenly things are turning completely different and everyone in Croatia seems to have forgotten. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3087	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Vice President of the Parliament, Mr Reiner, for the replica. Replication response, dear colleague Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3088	Thank you very much. Mr. Reiner, I don't know if you've heard of a man named Zdravko Maric. Do you know Mr. Zdravko Maric? I know he's been in HDZ lately. Oh, no? A month, two, three, but he is, a man is a minister of finance. So I don't know what you're talking about? Directly, daily. Oh, no? Zdravko Maric said it all, the finance minister, a HDZ member, a member of the government of Mr Plenkovic, and I refer to what he said. He said 900,000 people won't get a kuna, 600,000 people will get 100, 150 kuna, and the INA board members will get 6,000 kn per month. So Zdravko Marić is a HDZ member, a member of Mr Plenkovic's cabinet, so now it surprises me that you were in Croatia at all. You've been somewhere on a business trip if you haven't seen it all together. I must admit I've been consterned by Mr. Vice President Reiner's lack of information. So, if we're talking about such serious issues, then you must at least inform yourself elementally and see who said what. That's what your colleague Mr. Zdravko Maric said. And on the other hand, who named who and who's with who's a friend and what's in the SDP doesn't have that connotation as in HDZ. So, we don't have if we're with some good commitment to him, like in HDZ, they have an obligation to a gentleman who's a consultant from MOL, who was your president's intuition, sitting in Sheraton every other day with him. It's not exclusive in SDP. So when someone thinks about protecting Croatian citizens like we did in Switzerland, if you're with a friend, it doesn't matter. Society is company, and the service is service, Mr. Rainer. Well, yeah, peppermint is a society, and the government and the CNB is a service and then you pass the law for the benefit of 54,000 Croatian families. [[Intruding Brkic: Thank you.]] That's where we see a big difference, unlike HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3089	I thank my colleague Maras for his reply to the replica. The next call came from distinguished counterpart Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3090	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, I am pleased that you too are in favour of this law and from the position of the opposition representative that I wish you to enjoy that position for a long time. And if you keep this up, I think you'll do yourself a favor here. I must remind you that this is the position of the Croatian National Bank in force since 2010. That in those six years, you were a minister and a member of the government and no one had prevented you, but it was your duty if you did not agree with this Law on the Croatian National Bank to propose it. You were also Minister of Government. However, this law that we are discussing today has not been proposed by you or by your government. Meanwhile, the National Bank report was voted in this House five times. Just once, as I recall, and I've been in the Parliament the whole time, we've decided on or against that report. I think it was 2013, I'm not sure. But we kept the CNB report informed all along. In this regard, it was a dispute in the past government whether or not the CNB report would be taken into account. As a result, Mr Lovrinovic and Mr Goran Marić's initiative to define the position and possibilities of the Croatian Parliament in the Croatian National Bank's report. If that wasn't the case, this law wouldn't have to be passed. And just to get rid of this law is welcome that we, as Parliamentarians, can stand absolutely according to the National Bank's report. I agree, too, that the Croatian Parliament and MPs have the right to decide on or against the Croatian National Bank report. But I remind you that you've had that opportunity for four years and you haven't done it, but we've also received the same report during your government. So much for the relationship between the SDP and the leadership of the Croatian National Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3091	I thank my colleague Bačić for his replica. Replication response, dear colleague Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3092	Thank you very much. Mr. Bačić, here's how you wish me well, and I wish you well in the future and a lot of success in work and everything that goes with it. Honestly, you've been standing there like a chronicler for the last five, six years and you've said what anyone could do, what no one could do. I can agree with you. Yeah, it could have. It could have been '95. I don't go to privatisation and '93. But what are we going to do now, 25 years back? So let's talk about what happened in '93, '94, how people got rich, how what injustice was done. And then you know who would be responsible? And you were probably then, I don't know now if you were an official, but you were in HDZ and you were in that story. So when we stand out of the position of the chroniclers, it's good not to look behind us, but to set things straight in the future. I agree with you, there could have been a lot done. I think it's a minor failure that we haven't changed the CNB Act but what happened to privatisation during the 1990s. I think you and I will agree on that. Here's the nod. So we agreed and let's do something to be better in the future. The CNB thing is a small matter anyway, tax reform is still a piece that needs to be thrown away and that needs to be done so that our people feel the benefit, not that we sell the fog to say that everyone will benefit from it and the benefits will have very few people. And those who praise the media for that reform have a lot to do with it. Both tax experts and consultants will all have more money, all of them will sell more services and benefit them all. And for that, praise. But the people who are watching us today will have no use for that, and that is why I am against reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3093	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3094	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I will respect the Rules of Procedure and I will refer to what you have spoken of, and that is, above all, I would like to agree with you when you say that greater transparency in the work of the CNB is something good and that we should not run away from it, that we should take such a stand and see nothing controversial. However, what I must agree with some colleagues before me is is this really vital for Croatian citizens and for the functioning of the Croatian state? I don't think so. We had 10, 9, 7 how many guarantees, in the end it fell to 1.5 I'd say that's HNB, maybe HRT, or not making HRT's debts. But we're not talking about those important things. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to invite you to Voćin Municipality, one of the poorest municipalities in the Republic of Croatia in the middle of Slavonia. So I'll tell you what, go to the Foxes that were famous for their arboretum that was destroyed in the Homeland War, which was in '91. The population was 160 years old. Do you know how many are on the list now? Six! And I'm telling you if there's 2 that's good. These are the problems that one of our regions is facing and we are always lurking at. We are discussing the transparency of the CNB, which is good, but will these people be more motivated to live in these areas, will they build their future there, will they go there for it? Well, I say he won't. When we talk about tax reform, I have proposed a clear measure to strategically identify ourselves towards less developed regions and introduce some tax reliefs towards them. We haven't introduced it, but we have a tax reform that gives the rich more and gives the poor nothing. And you often mention your colleague Maras to the INA and the INA administration and how much their salary will grow. Well, that may also be motivated by the fact that the revenues of a vice-president of her household have fallen, so here she wants to make up for it. But these are the problems, this is what I was talking about earlier, which is what attracts Croatian citizens. And not whether we're here to discuss the CNB or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3095	I thank my colleague Hajdukovic for his replica. Replication response, dear colleague Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3096	Thank you very much. Mr. Hajdukovic, I stick to the Rules of Procedure, but what is more important is that I stick to the interests of the people who chose us and those who are watching us now. Because that's why we're agents here. You mentioned essentially what my colleague Branko Grcic is, here I call on everyone who is here and who is now looking to go to the facebook page of counterpart Branko Grčić, who, with the precision of the neurosurgeon, scanned tax reform and analyzed who benefits from it, who does not benefit from it. And you mentioned well, yes, it may not be correct to go ad homeim but the fact is that members of the INA administration will get 6 thousand kunas of a net salary for nelado, for closing the refinery in Sisak, for the state is not opposed in the right way of closing the refinery in Sisak we will reward the board members in the INA with 6 thousand kuna net monthly higher salary. But don't forget Sisak is only the first, follow after that if we allow Rijeka. And this is the interest of Croatian citizens and the interest of Croatian citizens is for me above the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, although I hold it very strictly.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3097	I thank my colleague Maras. You are a Croatian representative in the Croatian Parliament and you are obliged to stick to the Rules of Procedure as the rest of us do. I once again appeal to you to stick to the topic we're talking about. There is no question that you can say anything you want, but I think it would be good and for the responsibility of talking about the subject we're discussing right now. The following came to light for the debate, or for the replica of the distinguished colleague, Prof. Branko Greek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3098	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed colleague Maras therefore this story about the ECB's reaction may well be reflected in a sentence there saying that the provisions of the proposal should not be retroactively applied, especially in the event of the appointment of members of the CNB Council, the governor is assumed. So you can touch anything but don't touch the current setup. Therefore, it is obvious where those sentences were written which were then, of course, verified at the end somewhere outside Croatia's borders. So, I think it's an underestimating attitude towards the Croatian state, the people, towards us sitting here, etc., etc. The second thing I wanted to say was, let's get some light on. As a participant in the talks with the CNB, among other things, and in the Government on solving the Swiss franc problem, they can testify that the CNB and the highest level were represented in these negotiations and in the search for the model that we finally found. It is true that the CNB representatives in the situation pointed to the cost of the process, the model that should be over 7 billion kuna. However, it is also true that CNB representatives made it very clear that given the state of international reserves, therefore reservations, there should be no major shocks for the stability of the financial system. That's what we've been listening to very carefully. They proposed to apply a slightly more social model that would include 2,500 people instead of these 55,000 that were ultimately covered by the law and after that they came to us with that famous letter of ten points where they warned us about everything and everything that had not been realized for all of us and it was a very important thing for the citizens to know.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3099	I thank my fellow Greek for the replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3100	Thank you very much. For me, what you have now mentioned and the letter sent by the Central European Bank probably to the Ministry of Finance and the CNB, the Government of the Republic of Croatia deserves to be responded to. So no representative of any party in the Republic of Croatia who has confidence and the right to propose to the Croatian Parliament deserves this level of underestimation and high-ranking. Look at what it says in that letter, it says that you have suggested something that is not clear to anyone, and they are like educated top experts. So if they can't figure it out, it means it's written notorious nonsense. We can't let that happen. I think it is not, I think we have the right to react in this way, I think as well as probably my colleague Greek that this response was written in essence in Croatia, at least in correspondence with the CNB because unfortunately the European Central Bank is placing itself in the position that this is their branch and they will protect de facto themselves. They protect themselves and their people, and we protect the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And on that side, I will say once again, if they have the right to vote by the Czechs, which is why they would not have the right to vote by Croatian MPs. Yesterday, the vice governor answered brilliantly here, I saw it on TV, says it's only in one EU country. Great, now it'll be two o'clock. Thank you for confirming that this is ok, that such practice exists in the EU, so Mr. Sosic probably unwittingly gave us here and for the right to vote like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3101	I thank my colleague Maras. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3102	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Of course, when a European official sends an open letter to the representative body, of course with a suggestion, it's basically written by the CNB that it's embarrassing and sad, it's a direct blow to sovereignty. We have complete control, for example. in Germany. How would this European official treat Germany or France, Denmark, Poland, Sweden who have full supervision over their banks? You spoke of reforms, yes, as a minister of one of the most efficient of the 1990s, by the analysis of the gentleman here we can take the Grmoi and me, indeed you say that these reforms that MOST will have its position, of course in the procedure is, whether you as a minister could not influence that two billion kunas instead of our OPGs, peasants who have gone from Slavonia, why, as a member of that government, you did not react and stop that emigration of these peasants, not the tycoons and bosses of the OPGs who were later opened, went to the pocket. 50 grand just from Slavonia at that time when you were the minister that made you move out. Yes, he scanned well the Greek minister, these tax reforms that have not yet come to Parliament, and the MOST will have its own position as an individual, as a parliamentary representative, because I am not on click one, two. Yes, but he just made an amendment to the Regional Development Act in 2014 as well as to my Sinj, Gorski Kotar and Lika led to the bottom of the day. He declared them developed regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3103	I'd like to thank my colleague Bull for his replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3104	Thank you very much, Mr. Bully. First of all, it means a lot to me that according to you and Mr. Grumoja, I was one of the best ministers in the last government. And I will return to you now, I am very often down in Dalmatia going almost every year to Sinjska Alka, you were one of my favorite boys, the Alkar boys, really proudly wearing that uniform and showing how Croatian cultural heritage should be kept. It's a shame you're not a boyfriend anymore, but, well, maybe once you get out of politics, you'll be an Alkarian boy again. But what's much more important, means this when you talk about agriculture and money and emigration, unfortunately Mr. Bull's eviction doesn't care, we witness it every day, no matter what you and Mr. Grmoya came to power. I was kind of hoping that when you and Mr. Grumoja came to power that all of a sudden they would stop, that people would start coming back to Croatia because when they see such high-quality representatives in the Croatian Parliament, they would say it is really possible to do something in Croatia. But unfortunately, people are still moving out and don't deserve these people to be talked to in a political way here. So you're pulling it like it's just like that. People leave every day and now that the Most is in power unfortunately and when the SDP was in power. And it has nothing to do with the MOST or with the SDP in particular in this situation, or with what you were talking about agriculture because these money didn't even begin to be used, while we were in position, or tycoons, or OPGs. People don't deserve you to take them politically in your own debate. Here's the only thing I ask you in the future, these people who unfortunately have to leave Croatia don't use it for petty purposes here in your replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3105	I thank my colleague Maras for his reply to the replica. The next call came from a esteemed colleague, Angelko Strick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3106	Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In your discussion, you touched both bread and games, Zagreb restaurants, research and surveys, and linked it to the transparency of the work. The most common word you mentioned in your debate was transparent or transparent. So here's how transparently your colleagues in Varazdin do it. The project weighs as much as 800 million kuna, the latest of this week. Namely, what's this about? The Varazdin County or the town of Varazdin and 10 municipalities are conducting the Aglomeration project. The project weighs 800 million kuna, 70% of which the EU gives. A first-stage tender has been opened, the bidder has been selected and 5 bidders have complained of the selected offer. All five complaints were respected by the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. And here's why. The company in Israel is an important business secret. ... In its decision, it states that this is prohibited by the Public Procurement Act and that economic operators are not allowed to mark classified data on unit prices, the amounts of certain items, the price of offers and the data related to the selection criteria of the offer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So someone declares a secret unit price their offer and for your colleagues it's the most acceptable offer. And that's transparent. Please comment, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3107	I also thank you for the replica. The answer to the line, dear colleague Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3108	Mr. Uncle, you've replaced me with someone, I'm not from Varazdin. No, I'm not, or I'm working in, which is a company, I don't know, or I've ever worked there, or they're my colleagues. So I wasn't busy there, and I honestly know nothing about the case. The only thing I can say here is that if Mr. Bull hadn't listened to you because 232 would have pulled. It means you're not talking about the subject. So, honestly, I don't have that information, I don't know what it is, and neither are my colleagues, but I'm sorry if someone lost a job of 800 million kuna that could have invested in Varazdin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3109	I thank my colleague Maras for his reply to the replica. This is what we're done with the replicas after this debate. The following has appeared for an individual discussion by distinguished counterpart Ivan Lovrinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3110	Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Let's go back to the topic of this session. So the proposal to amend the CNB Act. Two years are interesting about the change of the CNB Act, which is 2008 and 2013. In 2008, HDZ was in power, in 2013, the SDP was in power. Why am I saying that? So for the simple reason, that is, do you know who then proposed amendments to the CNB Act? I guess you don't know, I'm a CNB. And you gentlemen have accepted that, and that's why we have problems like we have. But here, okay, today it's good to hear how much I see that we're all more or less in agreement here that this needs to be changed. And I repeat my support to the MOST in which I started this initiative while I was at it. And I'm a lucky representative today and I'll be even happier if this goes to vote. With these 2008-2013 changes, what happened here? Here the CNB is defined as a supranational institution. So that's why they're writing yesterday to the ECB what they write and the malts humiliate us like we're from Africa, that we don't know what we're doing. It's embarrassing, and we can't let that happen. On behalf of the party Let's change Croatia we strongly oppose such a way because it is about the demeaning of Croatia. However, there is one very bad thing for every country, and that is when it does not apply part of the sovereignty it still has and we still have monetary sovereignty. Why? We've got a kuna, we've got a Central Bank. But gentlemen, it wasn't someone outside that forbidded us to use it, but those who run the CNB gave up monetary sovereignty and almost drove the Kuna out of circulation. And that's why those who speak today, colleagues and colleagues are probably not being directed enough. As a man who has been dealing with this problem for 26 years, I say far greater damage has been done to monetary credit policy in Croatia than any war damage that has occurred in Croatia and beyond. I don't have time to explain it. In this context, the CNB today, they do not know the laws on central banks in the EU, is this level and this way of independence. Why? Because our Croatian National Bank is the most independent of responsibility. It's important here to emphasize. We have not had any democratic control over the CNB for 20 years by the legislative authority of the Republic of Croatia, which is the Parliament. A few examples, the mandate there to the vice governor and governor can last a lifetime if this law doesn't change. There's a vice governor there who's already been in office for 25 years. One's 75 years old. Therefore, there's a complete mess here. There is neither in the Protocol nor in the Statute of the ECB nor in any other meaning of the European Central Bank. There is nothing more to be asked here than to comply with the level of the CNB law with existing laws in the EU and that is below these standards and I will now list you with a few things. In this context, no expert team who has worked several months for the party We change Croatia, we found that no central bank has more than 2 to 4 vice governors, with 6 of us. The Governor, the Vice Governor of the EU, has been appointed to the Central Banks as a rule by the President, the King or the Queen on a proposal from Parliament or by them. Here it is defined who appoints but it is not deliberately defined who solves it. So, is it up to us, do you understand what this is all about? In this context, I don't have enough time to talk about employment policy in the CNB, but it's clientelistic, there for a function, so for a man, it's looking for a function rather than for a particular candidate in a public competition. It's all done within the institution. In this context, what I want to particularly highlight is this HNB Act that exists now is in collegiate and is contrary to several laws in Croatia, do you understand? It is contrary to the Law on Accounting, the Law on Credit Institutions, the Law on Payments, the Law on the State Agency for Deposit Insurance, the Law on Pre-profit settlement and consumer protection and certain EU directives. I found out yesterday that someone asked the Treasury because you know that this current CNB law is the opposite of all this? They were shocked and said we don't know. So in this country, you don't know who's drinking or who's paying. In this context, we have also focused on this law in the new version that we have prepared for the CNB to act preventively towards banks so as not to bring their downfall to comfort, to oppose and counter the anti-bank business of credit institutions. But what happened here? Since the last Act on HNB 2013, several smaller banks have failed, the Bank of Zagreb, Credo Bank of Split, the Bank of Zagreb, the Naba Bank of Zagreb, the Primus Bank of Zagreb, and the CNB failed to detect the problems in time. He sent his commissioners there, they didn't do anything, and all these banks went into bankruptcy or liquidation. These are serious things, gentlemen, this is about the blood flow of the Croatian economy and here are the double criteria in the supervision and regulation of banks by the CNB especially for smaller banks. Remember that situation in Split some time ago when a bank was blocked but then, for a short time, it was blocked off for someone to raise nine million kunas and then it was blocked again. Did anyone bear any responsibility for that? It's not. That's why it's important to put this under democratic control. That's why they object to this bill that's proposed. In this context, I want to say some more things. What's this about? This is about us having to return it means the responsibility of the CNB to the Croatian Assembly which appoints both the governor and the Vice Governor. This is the highest home, and there must be bills for both good and bad politics here. We don't want the CNB as a state in the country. He is today the only state institution not controlled by the state. So where does that come from? And they're using it fat. I must vote in this House on the reports of the business of the CNB. So it is also voted on by the European Central Bank and other central banks, and I ask those who say otherwise not to manipulate the data. If we don't stand up to what's going on, we don't do our duty to the Constitution and to the citizens who expect it from us. And now I'm just gonna finish for a little while. The change and the wider change of the CNB Act is imperative and I do very well repeat that MOST is in this political situation to impose this change, but it must indeed be implemented more widely. I repeat, Mrs from MOST, you probably didn't notice this law is in collapsing with several of the most important laws in Croatia and some of the EU directives. In this context, I am holding in my hands a new proposal for a new CNB Act. He's got 131 articles. We worked on it for a few months. We selflessly in the name of the party Change Croatia we want to give the legislator of this law to work together unselfishly on this all in this House, to make a law that will put this institution a couple of excellences under democratic control. No one here in this House is talking about how monetary credit policy will be conducted here, no. But we want to know everything else because the owner of the CNB is a Croatian state or Croatian citizens. There's got to be bills here, too. Otherwise, we can see how all the letters are addressed by individuals and now I am sending a message to the European Central Bank by you gentlemen from the European Central Bank, so don't you see that this approach not only towards Croatia but also towards other countries leads to disintegration processes in the EU. So we have a deficit of democratic behavior there, too. This is about, this is an important topic and it is good that there is a MOST, Live Wall, Change Croatia, Power and the rest of us are going in a strong direction towards change and that this closed non-transparent and clientelistic system in the CNB is finally decommissioned but in accordance with democratic norms, with EU directives not to be conflicted with existing laws that exist in Croatia. In that context, that would be what I wanted to tell you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3111	I thank my esteemed colleague Lovrinovic for this debate. He had a few replicas. The first one was answered by a respected counterpart, Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3112	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, dear colleague Lovrinovic, I am pleased to see that this report of yours that you have now given to the Parliament, but I am particularly surprised by the fact that for 26 years neither left nor right nor so far, and I have tried to apply this law before you, then probably citizens and our businessmen would be in a completely different environment, in a much better light, and the state would certainly be more stable and not have these problems that we have with the performance and that it would probably protect the people's bank from the big interest and everything else that was going on. However, I doubt all that is said, which is just before Maras said we are doing to protect the citizens. We've had enough time and we see for ourselves that citizens are not protected enough from our parliamentary representatives. I, personally, am glad to see today that we all say the same thing, that we want to make changes in the National Bank. I'm the only one who's afraid when it's all settled that most of them won't take a step back, back. Why? So I doubt that, at that time, people and our experts and real economists, your colleagues sitting in governments couldn't remember making a new law and voting in the Parliament and going, once in the end, to go in some direction that would bring prosperity to these citizens. It's just like what happened the other day in Orash, where the people who defended that little part of the enclave, where 300 people died defending that one. Then others who have attacked or convicted and imprisoned those people, so this all looks a little bit like one inconsistency, and I'm afraid again when Europe says something, we'll be here in the Parliament when we vote back and we'll stay where we are and if it happens and it happens, then we're not needed here, if we can't solve what's to improve our citizens in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3113	I thank my esteemed colleague, Micic, for this replica. Answer to the replica, dear colleague Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3114	Dear Representative Misic, you are asking why nothing in this area has been done over the past 25 years. So you know this area quite hidden to people, because cash, financial flows, especially today in this technologically developed world, remain a pretty big mystery and they are poorly visible to people who are not experts in this area. But the banking system, the monetary system is the cardiovascular system of every economy. As the bloodstream supplies our cells to the body with food, so the banks supply the monetary system, the entire economic system with money, and it can work on it. For this reason, the question arises why has 92% of Croatian banks been sold? They told us it was because of globalisation, that we would be more efficient, that it would be like this, like that. So look how much there is in Western European countries in Austria, Denmark, France, Italy, which is the share, the percentage of foreign banks. 10, 20, 25%? But not 92%. See, that was the transition. We've lost so much here. And when a country does not have at least 50% of its banks and does not manage sovereignly its monetary policy, it cannot implement any economic policy. So, as a macroeconist, I'm saying that it should be clear to everyone that there is no government in Croatia that will be able to do something until we change one part of this. And that is why we see that some of the countries of the Visegrad Group in Southeast Europe are changing the practice of behaviour.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3115	I thank my esteemed colleague Lovrinovic for his reply. The next call came from a esteemed colleague, Nicole Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3116	Dear Vice President, Honorable colleague Lovrinovic, I thank you for the debate, and for your initiative, even in the last session of this Parliament, when we were together, we were collecting these signatures to amend this law. I agree with you that it is amazing and that this House of High Representatives should stand up against it, that some European Central Bank official is sending such a letter to the address of Governor Vujčić. In addition to being embarrassing, it is also embarrassing that our daily Jutarnji list stands aside from the European Central Bank and criticises MOST as a political option because of this request. And I think that we all need to stand up against this together in this House of Highs and not allow someone from the EU, some clerk, to determine what we, as the High House, are going to do. If other countries in the EU like the Czech Republic already have the ability to vote on the CNB report, and many countries have the possibility, that is, to control, or to audit the state within their central banks. I thank you for standing by this proposal, and this bill of law you've given, so we need to reach a consensus in this House of Commons. We don't mind if he's on track for what we've suggested, if he doesn't get into independence, it means CNB, and if we get consent around that proposal, it means most of the MPs in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3117	I thank my esteemed colleague Grumoji for the replica. Reply to the replica, dear colleague Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3118	Dear Representative Grmoy, I have come to understand my position in this House in the interest of the Croatian people and citizens who have shown me confidence to be there and to defend their interests. And that's why it doesn't matter where I've been, why I left or who I'm going to support tomorrow if he is, means in defense of Croatian national interests. There's been a lot of damage done here. This is about some clerks, as you say, sending us memos that need to be done or done. So, that institution that's so closed as the Croatian National Bank is legally every system, an institution that's been locked inside for a long time must have negative changes, there must be deformation. We have a very deformed monetary system that is this country, which has thrown our exports on their feet. I have no intention of giving a lecture here because there are no circumstances, and it doesn't allow me time about it you'd be horrified if we didn't use what the law allows us, which is the Statute of the European Central Bank, which is to manage our money. Because I'm not telling you we're not the euro yet, we still have our own central bank. However, the concept of the people who are now running the CNB was to remove the kuna from circulation as soon as possible and to introduce the euro as soon as possible and we would be like the Greek gentlemen today. And they did everything, and now that that plan's gone, they're not saying anything, and they're cooking it up. Even one governor had previously received a prestigious supposed world prize, and all those who received such awards in Central and Southeast Europe soon got their economies into difficult problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3119	I thank my esteemed colleague Lovrinovic for his reply. The next call came from distinguished counterpart Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3120	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Lovrinović mentioned the influences of the CNB on legislative authority. I would mention a few influences that were very negative in history. First, '93. And '94. the years where the CNB has pushed the currency clause through the executive and legislative authority, without any restrictions on the currency clause being prescribed. It was a disaster, as you can see from the example of the Swiss franc. The next thing, in early 2014, amendments and additions to the Consumer Credit Act entered into force. I personally participated in the creation of this law. On the benches here in the Assembly were quality changes and additions to that law where a variable interest rate was intended to be expressed using the initial fixed part of the interest rate and variable parameter. At the last minute, former Minister Linic moved off the constituency benches the proposal to amend and supplement and put a new proposal with an interest rate limit of 3.23%. That's not exactly what the law says, but that's how it ended up. I believe that the CNB is actually there I know that the CNB had its own influence, that the banks were pushing it and that the banks did not allow it to be introduced into legal transactions by then, an initial fixed interest margin that was not agreed on in time. You were talking about influences when the CNB Act was passed and amendments to the CNB Act. You were talking about clienteleism. Clienttelism is not only present in the CNB, but clientelism is present in the entire state sector and I therefore believe it will be necessary in some foreseeable future to adopt certain legal provisions that will regulate the way of progress in the state sector according to measurable criteria. Progress in the state sector is not allowed to depend on politics. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3121	I thank my esteemed colleague, Alexic. Replication response, distinguished colleague Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3122	Dear Representative Alexic, you come from the Franak Association, which has won a great victory over a system in which no one believes except you and us several, and I have worked with you. And I remember well the day that 30 thousand disappointed, angry citizens went to Ilica and one 10 grand came to the CNB. That was about a year and a half ago. You can talk about the CNB ever since. Until then, no one should have put a finger on it, the Living Wall should also be admitted to it, my smallness means now that the party I run is changing Croatia. We've changed the relationship means sensitized the public about these events. People used to say that there's nothing you can do, what you're going to do here, so you see that's the system, that's impossible. But now it's been seen to be made. And in that context, we really need to believe in ourselves. Because this country, which is why they've died so much for it if now parts of sovereignty are going to infuse us and no one has asked for it by law or signed an international contract. In this context indeed this Parliament, we must all be responsible for the citizens who chose us and firmly protect the interests of both citizens and the economy and this state. The monetary sovereignty we have but he's now fictitious, they don't want to implement it. We know how to implement it because it needs to be reverified, brought in the kuna, given the space. And not depending on foreign exchanges, foreign capital. It's an entirely uncolonial model.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3123	I thank my esteemed colleague, Lovrinovic. The next call came from distinguished counterpart Tomislav Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3124	Thank you. Dear fellow Lovrinović, we have participated together for a long time, and during the past elections in preparation, work, in everything we shared many successes and failures, happiness, sad moments, and I am pleased to share our happiness with you on this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements. I was especially happy yesterday when I saw the memo, I knew we were shaking someone up, we got someone off the table. And with us, happiness is probably shared by shrimp and tuna prepared by Japanese chefs because they survived yesterday, someone didn't have time to eat, someone didn't have time to massage, I think masseuses will be unhappy with yesterday. And just this is all of our debate where we made one great consensus that someone had to take a step yesterday and that step was actually a knife-knife in the back of this debate that we had qualityd and that led towards the goal and for what? That's why when I look on this table who doesn't do a review of the effectiveness of the central bank, when I see Greece and I really know we're on our way. And that when we introduce the State Audit into the CNB, we will no longer have to discuss shrimp, massages, but we will have to discuss the effects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3125	I thank my esteemed colleague Panenic for his replica. Answer to the replica, dear colleague Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3126	Dear Representative Panenic, I see you have a lot of information on which CNB money should not be spent. Yesterday, you were talking about high wages. It's the same state let's say state institution. Why are such wages enormous there? What's actually going on there? But I would warn you here of one thing because let's go together and finally start working in this House on important things together, you see, you've proposed these three changes. They are, in fact they are the same, the ones that I am, too, when I was in MOST, exactly the same, but after that I went wider with the expert group looking for and now I draw your attention to you and to all of us that if you go through these changes only three, and there are a series of provisions in the existing law that are in conflict with other laws of the Republic, then you as a proponent, and we too bear responsibility for inaction. That is why this proposal, which I offer you unselfishly to finance together, you will see that it is not opposed to other laws of the Republic of Croatia, nor to the Statute of the European Central Bank, however, is well aligned with it. And let's make the final changes that will make us proud and bring the CNB back under democratic supervision that should be independent, but which should be responsible. Not that they come here to account for reports most often of the deputy governors, and even if they don't like them, they raise their noses and leave this hall without any excuse.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3127	I thank my esteemed colleague Lovrinovic for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3128	Thank you, Chairman. I would just like to say one thought that is quite interesting, as Professor Lovrinović said, he said the CNB missed to prevent, say, a few banks, small Croatians. I would say that it did not fail to prevent it but that the CNB had committed aggression on them and in fact deliberately liquidated them with the aim of eliminating competition or with the aim of maintaining the oligopoly, a few of the foreign banks that hold basically 98% of our banking system. Another replica would be on the subject of pressure from the European Central Bank, Mr. Grmoj calls them officials who have the support of moral freaks, monsters, monsters and Mason 33rd degree Marijan Hanžekovic, who persistently poisons, pollutes and insults through his media all those who disagree with his vision of Croatia. I would like to say to this occasion that we have nothing to be surprised at by such blows and attacks and that there will be more and more how time will pass. I also ask the citizens not to believe the editions of Hanza Media because their owner is the person whose interests are both the newspaper and the subscriber of HRT in the last place. It's a monster in the fullest sense of the word that's been insulting me for five years and terrorizing me and continuing today with its pamphlets what's in the Morning List that's in Globus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3129	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar. Reply to the replica, dear colleague Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3130	Dear Representative Pernar, you can say what you said about small banks as well as call it, you said it in just one more open way. And it's really about cleaning up the banking market from small banks. I won't mention the name of the banks, but one bank in Split, there are you Dalmatians here, who are sold to a foreigner who thinks that a huge capital has come from that country, it has sold itself twice, and most investors have earned it. How's she doing today? A little capital came from outside, she runs a battery from Dalmatia, and that's it, and the economy is going down. But there's something else I'd like to tell you, do you remember a few months ago when Slovenian Special Forces raided the Slovenian Central Bank, remember, did anyone read it? The same crowd was raised from the European Central Bank, even the governor wrote a letter, and what was shown here? So it turns out that a small Slovenia, twice as small as Croatia, has proved to be a large country. Why? Because they had reasonable doubts because there were some illegal acts there too, they came to the office and the governor, excluded the information equipment of a particular file, took to make this judicial one. So imagine not giving such a thing to God in Croatia was made? So please, let's make this state one country already. That's how patriotism is manifested today. If it's proven before in trenches like it is, and thank you all for it, so let's not incinerate today, we're fighting for this country on these fronts, on these issues.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3131	I thank my esteemed colleague Lovrinovic for his reply. With this, we've exhausted all the replicas in this debate. The following has appeared for an individual discussion by a distinguished colleague, Tomislav Sauch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3132	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I agree with my colleague, Maras, who here today said that the purpose of this law is not definitely to make citizens live better. With all due respect, I don't see how this law will make citizens live better. The purpose of this law is also not even to improve the work of the CNB as an institution. The purpose of this law is as well as the purpose of all the laws that MOST has so far referred to almost everyone that MOST has referred to in the accounting procedure with some. I didn't defend Governor Vujčić here as a person, not even as an institution, but I defended the principle that laws shouldn't be written for an individual, as annoying as he is to someone. I said yesterday, so I'm going to say today that the purpose of this law is to deal with one individual. Now, that's what Mr. Grmoy resented, but unfortunately, that's the truth. All of your laws that you have sent here, almost all of them are essentially instruments to deal with some MOST. to deal with some MOST. As a rule, they have a name and a last name, they have eyes, ears and noses, we have the Law on HRT, which is the meaning of it, is, of course, trying to make it easier for citizens to pay less in the business but in principle, the account with one publisher, one lawyer, and so the name of lex Handjeković was named. Well then we have laws on selecting representatives and the Law on selecting local leaders who were written and actually for dealing with a mayor who's a problem for you, you can't beat him, so that law was nicknamed lex Vlahusic. The law of execution was written even though it had a good intention to numb the blade in the Living Wall, to get into their space for a little while. And this last law we're talking about today, we definitely have to call Lex Vujicic. Except with small laws, you deal with an individual or with a group or an organization, all these laws have another one of their own touch points, which is that they are disastrously ill written, unprepared, amateural, and we have warned about it all along. You yourself admitted that you wrote this law yesterday because you were interested in how money was spent in the CNB and where it was all traveled by Mr. Governor and whether these routes were justified. I mean, I really don't see how that's gonna help, even though I think it's a legitimate question that we all have to get an answer for. And to be clear, don't think that it didn't irritate us in the SDP when we read about it. I was talking about it yesterday, but I didn't make it because I had very little time, and it really irritated us. And I think we should know that and that we should get that information here in Parliament. But I don't see how it'll help anyone other than MOST to make a political point, to say here, someone who's put the SDP there I don't know spent 300 or I don't know how many days on the road, I don't know, staying in hotels like that, spending so much and so much time in the air. So besides, I don't see any other meaning, any deeper meaning of this law. Yes, the governor will have to come here to Parliament, report to us and we will vote on it. You have a majority, and you'll probably vote against it. So you will vote against the first time, the second time, although there is no law, I have not seen that a sanction is provided for what happens to me as a Parliament. You, like most, reject the governor's report, whether it means his resolution, I don't know. I mean, MOST has pretenties and according to that place. I'll remind you, I mean it's never been officially confirmed, but it's certainly been said about it that one of your members is going to be replicating me now, i.e. The former member had a strong desire and will to become governor of the CNB. Somehow, this seems to be on the verge of personal ambition, among other things. That you've misprepared this bill as well as other laws tells the fact that you didn't realize that you had to do parallel to this law and change the State Audit Act because the State Audit Act says who's been audited by the state audit if there's no CNB inside then none of it. So that's where you've been fucking. In parallel with this law, the State Audit Act was to go. I think it was yesterday and somewhere you realized it, so one of you did it, I think Mr. Panenic said it. Now that I'm saying it all the time, the laws when they come to the Parliament should be in a slightly higher phase of finishing, working out, completing, and not every time it seems like a piece of work that needs to be fixed every time. I agree that there must be no sacred cows in Croatia and that no one should be outside and above the supervision of how the taxpayers spend money, that is the standard under which they cannot go, and the public definitely has the right to know about every institution in Croatia that is financed from public money until the last swear how that money is spent. I would therefore give you a proposal at the moment when the State Audit Act must already be amended to determine the possibility of audit supervision of the State Audit Office. Now, I know this is gonna sound a little blasphemous, but think about it. It is the only institution left in Croatia in which things are not subject to any external, independent audit. Who's overseeing the supervisor? The State Audit Office reports to us in the Croatian Assembly on its work, we take it for granted, we can say good or not but think about it, it is an institution that oversees itself. I think it's quite unfortunate when an institution has to oversee itself, send a report to the Parliament, and in that report it writes about itself in superlatives. Take a look at that report. Here's what I'm giving to my colleagues at MOST who are in charge of correcting injustices and guilty Drins, let them deal with it a little bit. I'm not saying, I don't think, nor do I suspect that something bad was done in the State Audit Office, I'm just saying it's the only institution that controls itself. Because I think we should also be interested in such an important institution that is listed in the Constitution, which is just as independent as the CNB,... you have articles, and the Constitution says, an article that speaks about the CNB, a state audit immediately after that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In order to be as interested as we are in how money is spent in the CNB, where the governor traveled, how money is spent in the State Audit Office, where the state auditor traveled. I'm not saying that those paths weren't necessary when he went to, say, a bilateral visit to Brazil a few years ago. Well, maybe it was important, maybe he learned something important there. But it would be good to say that we here bring amendments to the law under which the Parliament, i.e. The parliament would call, tender for an international company, have large respected international audit houses that would then oversee state audits according to the same international audit standards. I think we should be interested in it when we're interested in everything, right? Finally, I have no objection to the revision allowing any institution to enter to repeat in Croatia funded by public money. But there is another important institution that receives 450 million kunas from the budget there annually, and in which the state audit still has no access. I think you know who it's about. It's a very sensitive question. It's about the Catholic Church. But like I said, they shouldn't be untouchable. So here I am now asking you colleagues from MOST, since you have set yourself up here for one three steps above us in terms of morality and justice when you will refer to the legal procedure in the House of Law which would allow for supervision of that institution as well? Or do you think that doesn't matter? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3133	I thank my dear colleague, Tomislav Sauchi, for this debate. We have a few replicas. An esteemed colleague, Nenad Stazic, appeared for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3134	You say fellow Sauch each of these MOST guarantees, each of these laws is a deal with someone. I'd add a clumsy reckoning. In Article 2 of this proposal, the law states that the CNB submits once a year to the Croatian Assembly half-yearly information. In the old article, it was written twice a year by the half - year olds. But how can half-yearly information be submitted once a year? Well, that's against elemental logic. So that's what a first-class primary school student wouldn't write something like this. Then says the Croatian Parliament votes for or against it. Representatives in the Croatian Parliament can vote for, against and be abstentioned. Well, I can't, because when the people of the Most come, they say you can't hold your vote. In your Rules of Procedure, whatever it says is wrong, we determine that you will vote either for or against. That would also be the first grade of primary school, a first grade student wouldn't write this kind of nonsense. So that's the characteristic of MOST's billings and one half-literate if not complete illiteracy and any absence of any legal logic and even logic at all. As for your idea of expanding control over all institutions in Croatia that are spending state money, which are financed from the budget, I strongly support it, I strongly support it, and when we discuss this in the second reading, I suggest that we make an amendment together to see the consistency of the Most, to see the consistency of the Most. Whether or not we will send surveillance to not only the Catholic Church but all other religious institutions financed from the state budget. It's also the money of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3135	I thank my esteemed colleague, Stazic. A reply to the replica of the esteemed colleague of Sach. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3136	Thank you, dear colleague, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, dear colleague, for agreeing with me. That it's even that nomotechnical indetermination, not even, if we go abstract sometimes some of these laws might not be bad for him. Although I think he does, each of them has a hidden intention. But this kind of impromptuness, this kind of schlemper, unworthy Parliament, plenary session. But here we obviously missed and gave in as the Legislative Committee when we didn't see this nomotechnic inside, that nomotechnical nose. But that's all to change, but it shouldn't be when it's already come to a plenary debate. The purpose of these laws is no good at all but a reckoning. And when you're going to do the math then passions work, and when passions do, then they're very easy to cover and steal and make mistakes like this. But I think and that's where I agree with my colleague Maras that, this package of laws has one more purpose besides dealing with anyone who bothers MOST and that's a distraction. Because as we talk about this today, while we're dealing with the governor in the government, tax reform is being prepared and staffed which is nothing less important. To fill the state secretary's seats, on top of the assistants... get the state's apparatus, and we're here talking about whether someone was at the massage or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3137	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sauchi, for his reply to the replica. Before continuing the replica one notice, the members of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament were convened by the chairman of the Committee at 12 o'clock by the first closed session of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. So 12 o'clock in the hall Janko Drašković room 202. We're moving on with the replicas. Next to the replica, the esteemed colleague Mato Frankovic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3138	You couldn't remember the law you called Lex Vlahusic, the one that introduces morality into Croatian politics. However, I would like to remind you that in this honorable home more laws that you have while participating in the work of the Government, or your government proposed to this Assembly and the adoption were called Lex Vlahusic. First of all, it is the Law on the restoration of the monumental heritage of the City of Dubrovnik, which is a result of taking away the property of the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities, resulting in 7 million kunas annually less than the city of Dubrovnik on behalf of the restoration of the monumental heritage. The second law is the Law on cableways, which has been passed here completely inconclusive, whose result today is that the city of Dubrovnik after so many years after it was passed five years ago has 20 million kuna less in the budget. This was proposed by Mr. Saucha your Government and these are the laws you can call lex Vlahušić. And the law that should receive unanimous support in this honorable House, the law that introduces morality, moral norms is not lex Vlahusic and is not adopted to prevent anyone from running. You have a lot of honorable members who could be mayors of Dubrovnik, and they're not convicted.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3139	I thank my esteemed colleague Frankovic for his replica. Replication response, dear colleague. Excuse me, please, just a minute. Let's let our colleagues finish. Replication response, dear fellow Sauch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3140	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Frankovic, I'm not from Dubrovnik, I know it esculates me, I don't know the theme of the city of Dubrovnik so well. I believe every mayor works in the best interests of his city. And I believe that when Mr Vlahusic thinks and thinks, if he suggested what I think he has absolutely legitimate right to propose to the Croatian Assembly the law he believes would bring good to his city. But that law could be called lex Dubrovnik before, not lex Vlahušić. You know when the law goes after the cultural good of the city or to advance its tourist offer, then we can call that law lex Dubrovnik. And if he manages to fight for a law that helps the city of Dubrovnik, and let him be mayor, he's won the election and he's a little more quantifiable than you to make a decision about it and assess what's good for Dubrovnik or not, and the local elections are coming soon, so the citizens of the city of Dubrovnik will decide whether he was successful or not, whether he was lying. But when laws go after a person, a person is eliminated from a political life or taken away from him some activity, and then those laws have to have, unfortunately they have to have the name of that person lex someone. Look at the little structure of these beautiful laws of ours, the tools of reckoning. Every one of them, like I said, almost every one of them has eyes, ears, nose, face, some of them a little more faces, but they're basically going to have to deal with someone. What you were talking about, I didn't realize it was the point of someone counting, but of doing something good for Dubrovnik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3141	I thank you for your reply to the replica. I would really like to ask you to stick to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and stick to the topic, that is, the item of the agenda that we are discussing not to go wide. The next call came from a esteemed colleague, Nicole Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3142	Dear Vice President, here is what I said this morning in my first report to Mr. Lalovec and Mr. Maras, who defends a sovereign position we have for Mr. Sauch who is very passionately defending Governor Vujčić. I understand that, too, probably he and the former prime minister, the president of his club, has a lot of association with Mr. Vujčić, so there are some sentimental reasons why Mr. Vujčić is so passionately performing and defending himself. This law has nothing to do with Mr. Wolfie. This law requires the State Audit to enter the CNB, that the work of the CNB be transparent. And if you call it lex wolf, then that's your problem. We just want to bring transparency into the work of the CNB. Same as Mr. Vlahusic. We just want those who run in the elections not to be convicted by power, and the fact that one party is running for the man who is legally convicted is the party's problem. If the CNB is transparent, non-transparent during Mr. Vujčić, then it is the problem of this man who currently manages the CNB. Just like the HNS problem is that Mr Vlahusic is running for office. That's not my problem. That's their problem. ... No, I have no intention of winning. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] I'm not running for the Dubrovnik elections. I'm not done. Mr. Saucha, I'd like to ask you not to so passionately defend Mr. Wolfie. Now I've been asked here for a statement from NOVA what I'm saying is that the president of the SDP club doesn't come to the meetings. I'll go there now, I'll make a statement, I'll say there's no need because there's a Mr. Sauch here who is an excellent defender of Mr. Milanovic's position. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3143	I thank my esteemed colleague Grumoji for the replica. Replication response, dear fellow Sauch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3144	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I must tell you, my colleague, this is the last very good one that you sent down for me. A confession should be given when someone's so resourceful. And I don't think it's bad, that there's no taboo topic and you have absolutely legitimate right to criticize. All of us sitting here getting paid, we have to be ready to get our noses. Right? But let's go back on the subject. Look at this problem, you see all the time you've been imputing me to defend Mr. Wolfie passionately. Because you're going, you're going away from the Prime Minister, so that's the problem with you. You go personally, and then I have to defend just as personally, i.e. I have to defend a person because I can't, I mean when this law goes to a person. You understand? And I've never had a chance to meet Mr. Vujčić, something older than me, we don't move in the same places, we don't go to Peppermint. What can I tell you? But I told you here today right at the beginning, but you wouldn't listen to me. I think you were outside the assembly so I wouldn't defend him as a person, or him as governor. I defend the principle that laws can't be written by ad-hominem, that we're going to deal with someone because it still gives the Parliament a little too much power. Because we here can pass a law that will be lex specialis, which we will be able to deal with absolutely everyone in the Republic of Croatia. But there are some democratic standards that don't necessarily have to be written down in order for Nikola Grmoya to stick to them, you know. Here's so much for defending it. But you didn't answer me, and I thought you'd be because you're so brave, what you think of my idea to be a transparent waste i.e. to introduce the possibility of reviewing the Catholic Church so let's see there also means when we talk about transparency to see how transparently these 400 and some million kunas of Croatian citizens are spent. What do you think about that? You'd better give me an answer to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3145	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sauchi, for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished counterpart, Tomislav Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3146	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Saucha of mine, and probably colleagues here, is already a little irritated that during these discussions you are all personalizing the laws. I think all of these bill proposals apply to 4.2 and some million people living in Croatia, and it is certainly the intensity of each of them to protect interests and protect the money that is owned by these people. What I see in you, you probably lie that lex this, lex the one that bothers you in the interests of people, when it goes in your interest then it's no longer lex but Alex Brown. So you need to keep in mind that you do not need counselors to tell you what you are going to say in a parliamentary debate. But you yourself have been on the board and are now calling the items of a certain article in this law. At the end of the day, you didn't make such a statement, so I'm going to ask you to prepare yourself on the committee for the second time to go there, so if you feel that there's something not worthy of debate in this assembly that doesn't even come. But like this, you were in agreement there now suddenly changing attitudes. And I think that the long-term position should be that every law that is in the interest of the Croatian people needs to be discussed and quality proposals that will be constructive that there will be no only points of view this is wrong, it is wrong, you are not making any proposals. So I'm going to ask you to refer your proposals to this debate and, of course, to the possible future amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3147	I thank my esteemed colleague Panenic for his replica. Replication response, dear fellow Sauch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3148	My dear colleague, you were obviously not listening to me. So I made a very concrete proposal and I gave it two. So I don't know what you're doing here, sitting around designing some kind of cheap joke. I mean, I have to tell you that. Here's as I've confessed to my colleague Grumoja that he's brought me down well and that he's really intelligently scored, I have to tell you that you disappoint me every time. I expected a little more. You're one former economy minister after all. You haven't been long though, but it's an important ministry. I don't know Alex Brown, Tach, massages like this every time, so give me a second thought of some seriousness. But I think it's your right to say whatever you want, and I'm going to defend that everyone in this House has the right to say whatever they want, that they can talk if they want to. I've made you a very specific proposal. So now it's up to you, if one of your own still has the possibility of a replica, or if you'll come forward later. You can even go as a colleague of Grmoja and make a statement to NEW TV and tell us that you do not agree with the fact that Zoran Milanovic does not come to the Assembly and say what you think about this proposal to allow the State Audit Office to monitor how money is spent by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which we spend every year worth more than 400 million kuna to an important institution. Or do you really think that doesn't matter? I think it's pretty important because it's a big deal. And maybe it's heresy for you, maybe you can't talk about it. We don't have taboo themes, we can talk about everything. Well, we can also have different opinions. He can have one opinion, I'll have another opinion. That's why we're in the Parliament. It would be sad if everyone had one opinion, then we shouldn't even be here. There's only one guy who can sit here and move his dicks. That's not how it works with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3149	I thank you for your response to the replica of the esteemed colleague Sauchi. The next call came from a esteemed colleague, Marin Škibola, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3150	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Here, Mr. Saucha, I see that you are very critical of all the proposals of MOST law, but I cannot agree in this criticism where you are criticising the proposal for the CNB because the job of the opposition is criticism but it must be constructive criticism and especially not criticising a law that will indeed improve both transparency and behaviour of CNB officials and many more positive effects will have. So I think this debate of yours was going in a negative direction, not a positive one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3151	I'd like to thank my esteemed fellow Skiboli on the line. The answer to the line, dear fellow Sauch, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3152	I criticized the law, but I also said that it was good for the revision to enter the CNB to see how that money was spent and I also said that it irritated us. And it irritates us. And now we'll see, so I didn't and Priors said we were against it. And as for the record on what the opposition should do or not, now, I'm asking you nicely not to explain to me what the opposition should do. The task of the opposition is to be critical, I agree also that the task of the opposition should be to be constructive but I was highly constructive. And moralization and doctoring please leave it to Most, don't steal their bread. They live on it. If you go ahead and do some more edifying and moralizing, they'll have nothing to do anymore, they've fired their seven guarantees, they've admitted that they've given up half of them, they've admitted that half of it is unusable. The only thing left for them now is doctoring and moralizing. I don't think poor old Mr. Bolt's gonna have any reason to come here anymore. Be collegiate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3153	Thank you for your response to the replica of the esteemed colleague Sauchi. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3154	Thank you very much. Mr Saucha, I see no reason to even mention the current governor, is it simply visible how many members the EU itself has state audit offices that control their national banks. So we have nine completely overseeing the central bank and the business banks that are in their jurisdiction. Between them, Germany, Spain, France, Cyprus, the Netherlands, Malta, Denmark, Poland, Sweden, full supervision of the central bank that also has countries are Estonia, Ireland, Portugal, Romania somewhat looser, Austria, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Slovakia, Bulgaria, Lithuania, Slovakia. Without the right to control Greece, Latvia, Finland, Luxembourg, Croatia and the United Kingdom, means the Office of State Audit as well as all other institutions would only give us parliamentary representatives their report. Your proposal that the State Audit doesn't know who's controlling her, essentially then giving herself a report is a little ambiguous at least, but the State Audit Office will give this finding neatly which we will discuss and I don't see any reason why we wouldn't discuss it as a report on the CNB, is that CNB, we have the right to talk about their business. We're elected deputies, we're not just here to sit, we have autonomous right like the other institutions to discuss the CNB's business. It's our right as well as mine and yours, not diminishing your value or yours. If you see any problem, I don't know why... you mention Mr. current governor, do you regret him for what reason?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3155	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, dear colleague of Tomislav Sauch.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3156	Not a word about my proposal again, not a word, and at least I expected it from you. In fact, I expected the first of my colleagues to thunder, and then I expected you to tell me what you think about this proposal, when you say that we parliamentary deputies are invited to discuss everything, about everyone, that we have the right to see every detail and I agree with you. There is no one above the Croatian Parliament, there is no one, we are the highest body. So, I'm curious now, so you're one of the MOST leaders, one of the loudest here, one of the most morals and you've had enough time, you've had one at least five, six minutes to think about what you're going to tell me, replicate. And that's why I expected there to be at least ten replicas that would call me Satan, heretic, that you would drag me to Mark's square and burn me. But here's a hundred heroes, no one, not even a guy. There's no guy to tell me I'm wrong, right, to take a stand, so that's not what you're about. Yeah, I have to admit it's a little misunderstanding, I've got trouble hearing you, but here's why I'm talking a little louder. So, let's get to the bottom of this. You've had your chance three times now, but you're avoiding it, I see that's a sensitive topic for you. And you're saying that we have to discuss everything here and there can be no taboo topic. So, I said, I don't have a problem with that, that review goes into every institution, or even the Catholic Church. So I'm wondering if you have a problem with that? You obviously do.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3157	Thank you very much. We're moving on to a further individual debate. Dear colleague Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3158	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today, for two days, we have been discussing the need to introduce a State Audit into the CNB, which should aim to determine the facts of what the governor eats and on whose account, where he skied or whether he massaged himself. We think this will solve the problems of the Croatian economy and the social crisis, however, it would be much better if the law was proposed here, or supervision to determine what monetary and fiscal policy is being implemented by the CNB. It turns out that Governor Vujčić should be replaced at least as far as I realized from this debate and set up a governor who will not be massaged, but who will still be allowed to have a currency clause, which will continue to watch Croatian savings in 92% of foreign banks, a governor who will not have any real authority over the CNB. I keep mentioning this independence in the work of the CNB, I don't know if you heard what my colleague Pernar said to him that the governor of former Rohatinski told him in a private conversation, I didn't decide anything. So he admits himself that he hasn't decided anything about what kind of addiction and independence we're even talking about and what the State Audit Office is going to find in the control of the governor's work. The CNB does not need the State Audit Office but should enter the DORH and USKOK and special forces like in Slovenia and check what has been done there for the past 20 years because it is an amazing saga of crime literally costing the Croatian people dearly. And the question is, how many decades is it going to take for us to solve that damage just to start resuscitating it today? Should we remember Governor Škreb who, in the late 1990s, allowed the destruction of 20 Croatian banks, including the largest one, such as the Rijeka Bank that has become Erste today? Should we remind the Governor of Rohatinski who sold Croatian gold 15.5 tonnes at a time when gold prices were the cheapest? How many billion kunas did he damage the Croatian budget? Governor Rohatinski who allowed toxic loans in Swiss francs that destroyed tens of thousands of Croatian families, including the families of the present parliamentary representatives? Should we mention Governor Vujčić's policy which did not allow a final ruling on illegal interest and which has not taken a single measure to this day to protect the debtors in euro whose interest is linked to EURIBOR and LIBOR? He therefore issued warnings, as if he were a meteorologist, the calm sea would be. He is not here to warn, but he is there to act and we see that he does not act in the interest of Croatian citizens? And that is why it is much more important to ask what kind of policy the CNB is conducting instead of whether Governor Vujcic is going to eat pasta or shrimp today. Such a bill will therefore not affect the Croatian economy in any way, nor will Croatian citizens feel its blessings in concrete terms. No account of this amendment will be unblocked, no job will be opened, no action will be prevented. And that is why we can conclude that such changes to the law have an impact on Croatian citizens about the same as the earthquake in Italy or the recollection of the Amazon forest. They have connections but within a very, very wide framework. Most if he really wanted to do something about the CNB, he had a chance because in their ranks they had a top economic expert who had rejected the first opportunity, they kicked him out of the coalition and they could listen to him. And the only thing that we might be able to say in an accident from the Living Wall is thank you for leaving it to us. We certainly won't throw it away. I would also warn of the currency clause as a key problem which should therefore be changed in economic, monetary and fiscal policies, as the debate has several times led to the fact that the devaluation of the kuna is harmful. The devaluation of the kuna not if it is not harmful but it is the only real and necessary step, I would dare say by which the Croatian economy will finally come out of the crisis. In doing so, I would like to give an example, an example of the Czech Republic. So the Czech Republic is implementing its own monetary policy, it is sticking to the crown, they do not want to introduce the euro in any way. Moreover, even public change in the Czech Republic has accepted such a policy and today only 17% of the Czech Republic accepts the euro as its future currency. Listen to the results of the Czech Republic and compare these results with Croatia. VAT 21%, imports are far less than exports. The Czech Republic is 37 countries in the world in terms of economic development and Croatia 83. The purchasing power of the Czech Republic is 20% higher than the purchasing power of the Croats. Are those Czechs who were poor 20 years ago compared to the Croats because we came to the Czech Republic as kings and today the Czechs are coming to Croatia and here they are flying and we couldn't see them. What the Czech Republic did in 2013 when the country saw a slight decline in GDP. She devalued the crown 10%, 10%, and what did she get afterwards? After that, she was given a continuous growth in the economy. Check, on the Internet, these data are available. In the Czech Republic, unemployment is only 4%. If you don't understand it, then it's completely irrelevant who will be governor, it can be Governor and Mr. Vujčić, it can be Mr. Miro Bulj, but if it doesn't change, so the CNB policy, all these laws will be completely irrelevant in the long run. Because by changing the president of the HDZ, Karamarko, the HDZ policy has not changed, and you all know it well. Just as the SDP's policy probably won't come after the president's shift. And if the distinguished representative Peric is talking about some hyperinflation from the time of Yugoslavia doesn't understand it, I invite her to a trip and Mr Panenic and Mrs Makar, I will put you in the car and at my expense I will take you to Prague, to the Czech People's Bank, and see how she runs monetary policy, what are the results of this monetary policy, what economy the Czech Republic has and how far the Czech Republic is ahead of Croatia today, and only 20 years ago, they were three and four times more underdeveloped than we are. It is not difficult, it should not be an economist or mathematician to understand it, it is like 2 and 2 only to be informed and it should only be understood that the currency clause and this kind of CNB policy are completely wrong, so yesterday, the President of the European Central Bank himself made it clear and loudly told you that the euro is not for Croatia. That taking over the euro by Croatia is completely wrong. I am also sorry that this debate has gone in a completely wrong direction over such an important issue as the CNB and its policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3159	Thank you very much. We have one replica, dear colleague Tomislav Jagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3160	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Bunjac, when I listen to you like this, I wonder if the solution is really that simple. You mention the example of the Czech Republic, I must admit that I am not very well referred to what they have done, but to compare the Czech economy in that context or the situation that the Croatian economy has been through, I do not think it is very convenient. We are, it is often mentioned that we have a high deposit euroisation, so 80% of the deposits in the Republic of Croatia are in euro. The Croatian economy is small and open and 60% of the goods imports come from euro area countries. The price rise or inflation that you mention, here I will mention only one branch, which is tourism that makes up 20% of our GDP. In fact, how much of a change or inflation rate of rabbit exchange would cause me to say change in that sector in tourism. Because we actually want tourism to be our export branch. Through our high-class hotels, however, what is defeated is still being visited when we talk about goods and services most of these goods are import goods again. And how much would that mean, in fact, and how much would it go in favour of imports and not again exporting and developing the Croatian economy. Finally, we must not ignore the foreign debt that is very high, so Croatian citizens and businesses, and public budgets are also highly in charge of the euro and any change of course can, at any change of course, be extremely vulnerable. That's why it's not clear to me, and I'm not very clear that there's no one in the CNB who wouldn't think in that direction that a change of course could develop an economy or maybe what you're saying is what you're saying, maybe that's why it's bigger and late.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3161	The reply to the replica is the esteemed colleague of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3162	Thank you very much. So you probably thought that Croatia was in a more difficult position than the Czech Republic, but it wasn't. Croatia was in a better position because the Czech Republic was under the direct supervision of the Soviet Union and was heavily exploited and there in the 1990s the salaries amounted to some 10 euros, while in Croatia they were never so low, and among other things, the Czech Republic was directly occupied by the Soviet Union in 1968. So actually the comparison is fine. So both sides, both countries are, say, so transitional. As for the notion of devaluation that it would affect tourism, even in those times when the devaluation was therefore absolutely exaggerated by the intervention of the IMF in the former Yugoslavia, we had tourist indicators that were better than today. So the course of the then dinar was in no way influenced by the number of guests in the Adriatic as much as possible and there were guests until recently, i.e. at that time there were guests much more than at the time, so now Croatia within the EU. The devaluation of the kuna would certainly boost the competitiveness of Croatian tourism in Europe and the world. Croatian tourism, as you know, earns too little and here you are now encouraging me to think the question is, how much does Czechs make from tourism? I would not be surprised that the Czech Republic may earn more than Croatia without the sea, but I do know that some countries like Austria make a lot more without the sea than Croatia. So, in fact, the question of Croatian tourism and the question of how much it really is used at this point and the fact is that it probably does not take advantage of much of its potential. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3163	Thank you very much. Next up is dear colleague Ivan Pernar. However, he is gone and he is losing his right to debate. Well, that's why we're going to the next debate, and that's our distinguished colleague, Nicole Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3164	Dear Vice President, here, as we already mean in the presentation during yesterday and today in replicas, we are clearly not looking for anything that does not exist but in other European countries. We ask that the state audit enter the CNB, that the CNB operate transparently, that it behaves transparently because it controls the work of banks in Croatia. If he's not acting transparently himself, then we can't expect the banks to behave transparently. And we have witnessed the illegal withdrawal of interest, we have witnessed the Franak case and I think this is one step in the right direction that all those who think with their own head, whose interests are above the interests of some directives and officials who send letters to Croatia. I think we should all support this. Unfortunately, there are also votes here and on my right by Mr. Sauche and Bernardic who are against it, which strongly defends the current situation and do not want the state audit to enter the CNB, do not want us to vote in this higher home on the CNB report but what is looking forward to most MPs and here is now a colleague of Lalovac who is on the side of Croatian citizens, on the side of sovereignty and on the side that we here in the Croatian Parliament have the right to say what we think about the business of the CNB. And I think that we should all strongly defend this, that we should oppose these letters written by officials to the speech of Governor Vujčić, that we should oppose writing the Morning List which means either the bank or the interest groups that do not wish well for this country. We also see that these proposals, which Mr. Stazic, put forward by MOST, are constantly calling them some kind of dwarve guarantees, and we see that many have been so upset, so here is Mr. Hanžekovic now going to Mr. Stankovic this week, because it is obvious that what MOST proposes that the performances can no longer be carried out by law firms, means the exercise for Croatia's broadcasting that will leave them without all the money they took to Croatian citizens so upset them that they go on public television. These are not dwarve guarantees, these are small steps that will make Croatia a more transparent country, which will make Croatia a country where the money of Croatian citizens will not be taken to fill the pockets of certain tycoons. Let the morning paper say I'm not a man who thinks for himself. I am a man who thinks for himself, who is not afraid to call anyone while they write on the orders of those who do not respond to the change in the situation in Croatia. MOST will advocate and will not stop, and we will continue in this direction as long as certain colleagues like Sauce oppose it. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3165	Thank you very much. The presentation of the esteemed counterpart, Grmoje, caused five replicas. The first replica is the esteemed colleague Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3166	Dear comrade Grumoja, I do not call MOST's guarantees to the Dwarves because of their intensities but because of the way they were prepared and delivered to this House. I asked the question here by replicating Sauchi, how do you explain to me, how can someone once a year file a half-year? How is that possible? You have a chance to replicate me now, explain it to me. I may be a stupid person, so I don't get it. It's like telling someone every 10 years they're going to file an annual report. Explain that logic to me. I reject any objection that you have written this law against the governor. I trust you, I fully trust you and I agree with the need to oversee all institutions in the Republic of Croatia and such an important institution as the CNB. It is not controlled by how it implements monetary policy, because it must be independent. But control her in her work, transparency of her work. It's like when we control HRT, so we don't control software policy, we control the way it works. When we control HIN, we control not its programming policy, but its way of doing business. But my colleague Grumoja, five times Soucha asked you, and now I'm asking you six times when you are, show, prove that transparency is on your mind, on your soul and on your heart. What do you think of Sauch's proposal for the State Audit to control all institutions financed from the state budget and so on by the religious communities?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3167	The reply to the replica, the esteemed colleague of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3168	My colleague, I thank you for what you've noticed, and I said these are suggestions that we'll make during reading, and I have no intention of answering the HNB Act as if I'm on the interview of my colleague Sauchi. Give that proposal of yours, you could have given it, you've been in power for four years, put it in the process, and then you'll see that I'm not afraid to say my position and I have nothing, I have nothing against any revision anywhere if you don't object, means some kind of contract that we signed as a state. I don't have a problem with a revision of the Catholic Church. Why would I have problems with that? Here, but I don't want to answer any questions from my fellow Sauchi who aren't the subject. Learn more once to discuss the subject on the table.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3169	Second replica, dear colleague Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3170	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will report on this report by the European Central Bank which I must admit that today there has been a speech here that has been very inappropriate and I would just like you to answer me here if you will respond very strongly to such an opinion by the European Central Bank. Because I think it is inadmissible that in such a statement that they actually send to all of us that Croatian MPs in the Croatian Parliament should be exempt from voting, so that in this way they say institutionally affect the independence of the Croatian National Bank. So what's selling the nebula of the European Central Bank? So they're banning Croatian deputies from underestimating us all here, and they're still signing it, so let's see what kind of clerk signed it. Is this signed by Drago, President of the European Central Bank, who signed it and has responded very strongly that the debate about the Croatian People's Bank is actually banned at all. I don't know how far it goes, to ban anyone from saying we can't, so we're going to start an audit. Then even the title says that our State Audit is political, that it is not capable, that it is politics, or that it is not professional. So where does one European Central Bank institution get the right to insult Croatian institutions in this way? So I think we should respond very strongly to what the European Central Bank is doing because it is not only insulting institutions, but also insulting the Croatian Parliament. And those who wrote that, and I believe that it's not written there, but it's written there, should be given a very clear message because it's actually a message to all of us here. Don't argue about it, you don't have the right to discuss it, and we'll do ours, protect us from someone else there. And I think we should very strongly respond to this writing by the European Central Bank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3171	A reply to the replica of my colleague, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3172	Well, colleague Lalovac, here I have repeatedly commended you here for this sovereign attitude, so I have expressed a strong opposition to this way and this letter. And I also voiced strong opposition to writing the morning list, which means that because of what has arrived, you should give up this MOST proposal. And then Mr. Nino Gula says here that these are my exhibitions here in the Parliament. What I'm asking the Croatian Parliament to say is what it thinks about the operation of the CNB is my exhibition. He says like this, I have to read it. He says that it means that at all someone, meaning talking about me, who acts in the conditions of no discussion, no confrontation, competition ideas might understand that outside of this backward handicapped world there is a space for free thought and unmanaged action. Well, gentlemen of the Morning List, you're the one who's being managed, Mr. Grmoy's representative and the other MPs and the MOST, and here I see colleagues from the SDP, HDZ, the Living Wall, are not the people who are being managed. We freely express our opinion here and express here our opposition to a letter of this kind by a clerk who is well said written here in Croatia. And now I'd like to apologize to all the other colleagues who have responded to the replica, and I have to go to this National Security Committee. I'll listen to what you said later, I'm afraid I can't answer. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3173	Thank you very much. I mean, I'm sorry if we had committees for the duration of the session, but I'd like to call once again the board presidents to call the boards in the breaks, before or after the plenary session. The next person to report for the replica is Tomislav Zhagar. I don't know if we're going with the replicas or not. Goran Aleksic, are you going to replicate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3174	I wanted to warn you of another CNB failure. I just came into possession of a contract that's catastrophic. In 2007, one municipality signed a loan agreement with a single bank with a fixed interest margin contract of 1.2%. After two years, insurance funds change, and the bank comes in, just dropping the municipality's addendum to the loan agreement, which says that the fixed part of the interest rate is 4%. So, after 2 years, the bank puts the municipality's interest above 300% of the interest that was at the time of the signing of the loan agreement. I believe that the president of the municipality, the mayor of who was already I don't know, that the people who worked in those services actually didn't know what the bank had gotten them. Unfortunately, it's legal because it's signed, but in my opinion, it's a fraud. Imagine that someone gives you a loan of 6.7 million kuna with interest of 1.2 + LIBOR, be careful the Swiss is concerned, after 2 years you get an add-on to the loan contract with interest rate 4 + LIBOR. That's an increase in the interest rate of 300 percent. We can also thank the CNB for not regulating such things. This is, in my opinion, pure interest. 300% interest increase within 2 years. So at 6 million kuna, that must be a million kunas of extra credit. Here, that's what I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3175	Thank you very much. And the last replica, dear colleague Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3176	Thank you, Mr. Jandrokovic. Well, it's just amazing how often that delegate of Satan means that he comes from hell Marian Hanžekovic comes here on the agenda because he insists on his press.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3177	My colleague Pernar, I'd like to ask you, though, if we'd pick our words a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3178	But sir, that's the living truth. He sold his soul to the devil.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3179	Okay, but I would still ask you this is the Croatian Parliament and that we choose words about people who aren't here. I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3180	Well, sir, I'll be objective then, so the man's a masseuse and that's a fact. You have a Masonic magazine "Kutnik" I'll give it to you if you don't believe it, I think the truth should be appreciated in this House, not hidden. And he persists in this masseuse through these media, the Hanza media, the Morning and Globe muddys every good initiative and demeans every effort and effort to move from a dead end. I'd like to say that these attacks by his colleagues on Grmo and on MOST come from the very depths of hell or from the people who have made a deal with the devil and who are harassing us from the parliamentary representatives who are representatives of the citizens. That monster has no right to harass us and has no right to abuse the media to muddle us, insult us, humiliate us, and actually lead our citizens to the wrong attitudes and opinions. His articles in the Morning List and the Globe are bottom. And those two presses are the garbage I call on citizens not to buy at any cost and to simply protect their hearts and minds from that evil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3181	Thank you, too. So, I'd just beg absolutely for full freedom of speech but not to be insulting at the expense of other people. There's only that much. We're moving on to further discussion. Dear colleague Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3182	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Here are two things that most European countries already apply to the revision of the business of the CNB and the vote on their reports by our Croatian representatives that the people have chosen to represent here. We see that an EU official obviously indoctrined from the CNB attacks from where the right of parliamentary deputies to consider voting on reports on the business of the CNB. This law, by amending the law, is essentially simply a CNB no longer a Pharaohic institution in which other institutions, other state-owned companies and many other institutions are no longer operated. There's no attack here, as a colleague of Souch showed on Vujčić, it's simply a request for the right for us to vote on the report. If we do not have the right to disband this House, if we have lost so much sovereignty and humbled ourselves to those officials who send open letters and agree with counterpart Lalovac that the Croatian Government should, all MPs with the highest level of strong response is that this is a blow to the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, that one European official is intruding in the work of our people's representatives. If we kicks agree to this and defend, I see that most are against such a way, who defends it, then we no longer have sovereignty. We betrayed the people who chose us. This law is only a step towards amending this law, but only a step that introduces further changes and changes should include experts around the CNB. So this is nothing sensational, this is as normal as in many other countries of the European Union and the world. So why all this pressure directly from that CNB institution? It is not their father, nor has the father left them an amannet for the CNB, nor is it an inheritance. Citizens have chosen us representatives from both the left and the right and the centre to vote on business reports, otherwise it makes no sense to this Parliament. What we should hear is just a report and nod, we have no right to vote. Of course, my colleague Stazic earlier pointed to one illogicality in the proposal that needs to be corrected, so first reading, to vote yes and against. Of course, it can be restrained and it's in place, but it's the technical problem of the proposal itself, and that's why it's one reading. But indeed this letter from this CNB-sponsored official is most likely because there is no one to hit parliamentary democracy in the Republic of Croatia. Try to introduce a dictatorship. We do not need to agree on either worldly or ideologically, but this is a blow to the parliamentary representatives, to those whom the people have chosen as MPs not to have the right or to vote. Where do they have the right to vote on the business of an institution, and in all other EU countries, in this way, in fact, has been acting for a long time, and that is one Usus quite normal. The audit, of course, needs to be entered as well as other institutions on business, there is not even intruding into monetary policy, there is not even intruding in so far as the business of the CNB is mentioned, because we need to know Croatia is a state that had slightly less than 15 tonnes of gold, no more grams. Was one of you a referendum perhaps on the vote that we would sell gold, who gave the right to anyone, without asking citizens who were co-owners of that gold to sell and why it was sold. Why is it 300 billion kuna long after the gold has been sold? Why don't other countries sell gold? Thousands of questions can be asked, but what we're talking about as parliamentary deputies, this is the basis why we're sitting here, that we have the right to vote, oppose, to face our opinions about any institution. This is not an incursion in monetary policy but exclusively in the business of the CNB and, of course, the reports that we parliamentarians have the right to vote on. All other servants these letters by supporting their perpetrators who brought the Croatian state that today we do not have any bank except Post office, which is owned by Croatia that they are salting our minds. Let the salts in their countries be wise, for sure, in their countries there has been no franc, no interest from these banks that they own their country. This is the basis of parliamentary democracy that we have the right to vote if the people have chosen us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3183	Thank you, too. Before we begin with the replicas, respected MPs and representatives, it is our pleasure and pleasure to welcome her Excellency to Mrs Marie Lohel, the President of the parliament of the Republic of Finland and members of the delegation who are staying for an official visit to the Republic of Finland. ... We're going back to work. [[Applause.]] The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3184	Dear colleague Bulj, you have taken a strong stand to defend the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia against this intervention by the European Central Bank and you are not alone in this. Here's a colleague of Lalovac's spoke very clearly on behalf of the entire SDP club. You said that the government should also stand in defense of that sovereignty, and I would extend it to the President of the Republic, and so is its constitutional obligation. Here's the government meeting today, probably not finished yet. Unless the Government sends out its own session today its clear, very determined opposition to this intervention by the European Central Bank, we have a view of the Government of HDZ and MOST as a traitor, treasonous government that does not protect the interest and sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. If such a statement does not come from the Office of the President of the Republic and its action in your opinion with which I agree, we shall consider it treasonous. And I'd like you to respond to Sauch's intervention. I don't care what Cardinal Bozanic, who eats fish in the days of fasting, we won't do it, but as the 460 million kuna of Croatian citizens in the Catholic Church is spent, I think we would have the right to know through the State Audit and discuss it here in the Parliament. I'm asking you to keep your eyes open.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3185	Dear fellow Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3186	Fellow Stazić, indeed this memo is a blow to parliamentary democracy because of two ordinary things that we ask of one institution as well as in other European countries, and this letter is the biggest shame and an external attempt to strike democratic processes within the Republic of Croatia because someone forbids us to vote on the CNB report in business, it is to defend us and to tell us where it is right for parliamentary deputies, while in the same countries and where the gentleman comes from, the same thing is done. Which means trying to impose dictatorship on the outside. Of course you can't declare the Most and the presidents of HDZ or the SDP to high-level traitors when they're all consensual, mostly except for individuals... And of course the government is also expected from both the president and all competent institutions to protect the constitutional order and sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is an attempt, I didn't say it was done, this memo is an attempt to strike the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia because parliamentary democracy is, so in the Republic of Croatia, from which the government and government originate. As far as you're concerned, you mentioned churches and religious communities, I personally don't mind having audits everywhere, but it's not a topic now, it's not a topic. You've been in power for four years, there are contracts and Vatican agreements, there are contracts between religious communities. So, here's a suggestion, what have you been doing in the last few years while you've been a parliamentary representative on this matter? Religious communities are meant to be in some kind of contract with the state or the Vatican. That's what we need to discuss if we need to. And of course, we're all parliamentary representatives, we have the right to propose on behalf of clubs and individuals, but now it's the subject of the CNB.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3187	Thank you very much. The second one came to the line by a respected counterpart, Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3188	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear counterpart Bulj, any clerk to write, was he a clerk, so he and the President of the European Central Bank, governor, anyone who writes anything, and if he didn't call on some provisions where it says it's forbidden in a directive or anything, we might consider it the most ordinary column in a magazine. So anyone who defends anything to anyone must appeal to a specific regulation that defends it. If he does not call upon any regulation, if he does not refer to any specific provision, then he can take pictures with his letter. That's one thing. It's another thing. I don't know if you noticed what I just said, these 300 percent interest increases in one municipality, probably happened in many municipalities. So the banks, I would say, in many municipalities negotiated loans at the beginning favorably and later changed interest rates legally because they were people who were authorized to sign but they didn't know what they were signing. Of course, they're hard to get away with because it's said that ignorance of regulations doesn't justify, but it's kind of a scam, that someone increases your interest by 300 percent, that's terrible. So, as far as these same officials are concerned, I would refer to the European Commission where Franak asked the European Commission to be seen for the ruling of the Supreme Court in the case of Franak. In the 5th month of last year, the European Commission did not respond at all to the request of the Franak Association while reacting highly to the bank's request to act in the event of Franak's conversion and to attack the Republic of Croatia that this was not in accordance with European law, to seek opinion, to seek an explanation and to eventually go to the European Court of Justice. So they react highly when it comes to banks and when it comes to consumers, they are very slow. It is evident that the banking lobby is strong throughout the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3189	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3190	Thank you very much. Fellow Alexic, you and your association have proved that the Croatian National, Jurisdictions of the High Administrative Court, if I am right, you have proved together with the citizens, with experts that the CNB has protected foreign banks, that it has worked against the interest of Croatian citizens. We have a verdict. She no longer heard-shows it, and therefore thank you, to you and the Franak Association and to all the experts who have been involved and certainly the interest that foreign banks draw, both from municipalities and from individuals, that it is now on account of how much it is, that the calculation is made of how many amounts are being made, that is, I mean immeasurable and all obviously, with the blessing of the rulings of the CNB policy which made it possible, did not in time warn or did not react. And I really need to talk about it. And once again, you have made proposals in the debate itself through this, concrete and constructive and really need to work on everything you've done so far and put into a new law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3191	Thank you. Third replica, dear colleague Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3192	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Comrade Bulj, I have noticed that in your performances you are always facing the opposition and that you are always speaking to the opposition and if it is the real intention of this bill of yours to change and correct the CNB and its work, I think you should turn a little bit to the other side because you will together pass the law as you wish and as you will suggest. We as opposition parties are in the minority here and I think our amendments will very little affect the composition of that law so I don't know why you always turn to the right, i.e.. to the left in that part of his address. You need to turn to the other side. Well, my colleague Pernar also presents a lot of quality facts in his performances, but he's doing it a little pre-theatly, so maybe some don't take it seriously, but the big problems in the whole functioning of this country have accumulated. I don't think anyone who's been involved in politics these 25 years is in some way responsible for the situation in which we've been brought to the Republic of Croatia today, and that we're being ordered to do so that, as our colleague Lalovec just said, we shouldn't even discuss such reports on the work of the CNB. Please turn to the other side for all to be equally represented in your address. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3193	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3194	Thank you very much. I'm going to turn to you because I'm more comfortable, you see, there's open space here, I can walk to you I have no fear of anyone. We are chosen by the people. I'm glad you're positioning yourself as to whether you're opposition or power. I'm really glad, and I'm really talking to you right now, and I'm gonna turn to you. This same proposal was made while you were sitting on this side for a few months ago, not in the People's Coalition, but back then you were in the Patriotic so-called. The coalition. And I didn't really see the excitement of you at some time after these laws and changes, and you were also on the Croatian Peasant Page. But this is not a question of where the parliamentary representative is turned, we should all be facing the citizens, and it's just such a space that it's just better this way for me to communicate. But expectations are important from this law, and it is important that you note that this letter from the European official essentially wishes to take away your right to vote on the report. It's not a matter of amendment, you didn't make a proposal like Mr. Alexic, so Mr. Pernar is also giving his ideas. And you're just critical of the replica now where I'm turned. I don't know where you turn, are you in the People's Coalition or are you in HDZ? That's what I'd like to know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3195	Thank you. And the last replica is a esteemed colleague, Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3196	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bulj, I was moved by one of your sentences when you said why are we here in the Parliament? Why are we here in the Parliament? We are here, the people have chosen us to defend the interests of our citizens, to bring laws in the interest of our citizens, to fight for them, to defend the sovereignty of our country, and what they say is a European official wrote a letter that we shouldn't even debate, perhaps they could say that we can't discuss it. We here need to know that this is precisely why we are here not to allow us to interest more of our citizens in this country, that we all stand together behind this law that needs to be passed real, good, European law and that our banks are simply ours not to be foreign and to protect these citizens, unfortunately late but it's still not too late if it's going in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3197	And a reply to the line, dear fellow Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3198	Thank you very much. It's never too late for a fellow Music to beat a living heart. But we really can't have geese in the fog. This is direct, i.e. still an indirect blow to parliamentary democracy, a blow to the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia and we are obliged by the Constitution and have sworn to defend the sovereign and independent Republic of Croatia all, regardless of whether they were, can turn to my left or right, we are obliged and obliged to defend sovereignty and enable the development of the economic Republic and all because of the remains of young people who unfortunately leave Croatia daily and so there will be no prosperity. I absolutely agree that this directive, these letters of officials who have clearly passed so far, must no longer be passed on all matters by any servant's court policy and therefore is now the Republic of Croatia. Political disagreements and ideological worlds are less important, they are the political folklore we are fighting for, but on these issues of sovereignty and independence we must only be firm and complex. It's very difficult but I think it's high time to implement a modern policy within the framework of which we have been brought by political elites in the last 20 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3199	Thank you very much. And the final debate is the debate of the Living Wall's Club of Representatives for 5 minutes, the final debate of the distinguished colleague Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3200	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to say that this bill, i.e. amending the CNB Act, will enable the entry of a state audit into the CNB, will allow us to vote on the work report whether we accept it or not. However, the question arises what if the audit finding is negative, what if we don't accept it? It's a work report. Can we change governors? The answer is no. So the governor's coming, waving papers, we say this policy of yours is nothing, we can't replace him. We can drop his report, we can't replace him. The representatives of each other's institutions can be replaced, here we see the governor cannot be replaced. The governor is a sacred cow, and many days ago I said why. And that's because he's in the service of foreign centers, or foreign centers of power. What is essential to our country right now is the issue of external debt. We don't really know who our country owes to today and until we figure out who it's supposed to be, we can't even know who it is that really rules our country? Because it's the believers who decide our policy. I remember when the government published a tax registries register, I call upon the government to publish the register of its creditors, so who are these people to whom our state owes? I'd like to say that our external debt grows from day to day, from now on to hour, that process is unstoppable and we actually can't repay the external debt. What, because people say sometimes if the debt were to write off what's going on with the debt, but the basic thought is that the debt can't come back. Because how do we repay the debt? Taking new loans and taking new loans does not reduce the total debt but is growing as it will say that Croatia, regardless of whether the debt is written off or not, cannot repay it. Now we're coming up with this little trick that when these creditors ask us to carry out painful cuts, painful measures where it's going to end. The fact is, there is no end to these austerity measures. They're going to get more and more cruel, and they're going to get bigger and bigger. Also why does this government not have the courage to touch the issue of monetary policy itself, that is, why, what is the role of the CNB? Da Iki is a Croatian National Bank in reality if the CNB has yet to play a large exchange office. I remember when my friend went with 100 euros to the CNB to exchange them, they told him we weren't exchanges. But when and what it's about. They basically have the role of exchange rate only for large amounts. So the CNB is a de facto foreign bank exchange. As long as that's how our country will fail, our citizens will fail, the course will be what they say they will be bound, they will be dependent on the euro. The euro went up, down. We're going with him. We'll have a currency clause, we'll have a credit crisis. And after all, where's the end of this road? Ladies and gentlemen, I believe it doesn't bother you very much or worry you because you're fine. I'm also personally fine here right now. I can't complain. The question, however, is not only how we are 151 who are sitting in the Parliament, but how 4 million citizens who suffer the consequences of this monetary policy. I am deeply convinced that if we as MPs were to be the first to strike these measures, that is to say, if we were to reduce the number of MPs in the Assembly and we had to extract as straws say, or which of us would have to go out of the House, I believe that we would have just rebelled. But, let's say, if our wages were to be reduced, so on and so forth. But our salaries are growing, the number of MPs is not getting smaller, we are essentially doing well, and citizens are not doing well. And here we return to this famous "sit of hunger does not believe" and as long as it is, until we MPs are hit by this crazy policy, most of us will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3201	Thank you. We have three replicas. He is the first respected colleague, Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3202	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Pernar, I'm glad you mentioned these debts. In fact, these debts that may be unknown to me are more worrying about the situation of the settlement of these debts. So here's what I suggest, I initiate one thing that could be done here. One parliamentary commission could be established to check all the contracts that the state signed with foreigners, with anyone about crediting the state and to see if there are any illegality contracts. I believe you could find something like that. And that way, we'd probably be able to reduce our debts in some way. Here's one of my initiatives that I don't think is invaluable.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3203	Thank you. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3204	Yes, Mr. Aleksic, it's an essential thing why the state doesn't publish a list of all its creditors. Why doesn't he say we owe it to the World Bank, the IMF, I don't know the Deute Bank or whoever, put it on the table, let him announce to whom he's all due, and finally what's the most interesting and interesting thing about their debt payout plan? The State is unable to repay one kuna loan without taking on new debts, or new loans. So, the country that's the biggest debtor in the country, the state that's not able to pay back, that's the same country that's crimping small people because of their tax debt, and it knows that these people are actually just collateralized policy victims by the CNB and the constant blade of straw on small people. And those who run such a monetary policy, those who raise those loans that don't pay back, they live the best. And in fact, I would dare say that the more irresponsible someone is in our country, the more someone is in debt, the more someone raises loans that don't repay it to him with greater respect and honor. Our finance minister who's his role? How does he serve public debt? So the debt is growing. Is that a debt service? And what kind of monetary policy has put us in a position to have a huge foreign debt at the same time and to have Kunska's money in the country? These are questions that, unfortunately, this legislative proposal does not provide answers to them. And as long as the government is managed from the outside, it doesn't seem like they're going to give. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3205	Replica number two, dear colleague Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3206	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Pernar, you said in your statement that there are no sanctions for the governor if the audit finding is negative. And I was saying in my debate that we support the meaning of this law, but that we need to specify what is being supervised through the audit, which is the scope of the area, which is what the State Review needs. The report also usually makes recommendations on what needs to be corrected and where irregularities are identified and who is responsible for implementing them. If that is not the case, this law is not clear to the end, and we are asking for clear laws to be passed. And secondly, the one responsible by the state institutions to initiate proceedings against the same, means against the governor if there are irregularities in business, and we have heard from the media a variety of information about the spending of taxpayers' money, we are asking that they also bear sanctions and that state institutions initiate proceedings. I also said in my statement that it was wrong that neither the Government nor the Ministry of Finance nor other resolution ministries had responded to the National Bank's failure to act out. So there's a responsibility on them, too. And it is up to us as parliamentary deputies to speak, not to be under pressure from either our public or the European public because Stjepan Radic also went to Belgrade, although he had information that he would be shot at, he was not afraid to say about Croatia, for the needs of Croatian citizens there that regime is not good and that certain rules of conduct should be changed. Also today, no letter from the European Central Bank must scare us, we have the right to speak and seek solutions and to pass laws that will benefit the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3207	Thank you. Replication response, dear colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3208	Yes, a colleague rightly came to the conclusion of a shocking one. And the shocking conclusion is okay, the review report is negative and what? We had a situation where Šima Krasic, an eternal state auditor, said that 90% of privatisation was past the law. So what? To no one, ladies and gentlemen, ate the donkey wolf or after that Ljuba Cessic Royce who pitted it. Which means that neither this amendment of the law nor the release of a revision into this den of luxury, a litter of hochstappleria, a bed of life on a high foot that is totally in line with the real life of our citizens even to realize that strange things happen in that bed that are written about again by the media at the end of nowhere. They'll just say the find I don't know doesn't satisfy and goodbye. And the Croatian Parliament does not have the authority to relieve this governor for his conduct of monetary policy and for his illegality in the work of the CNB. Which will say that we are the hostages of a man here, not a man, but a policy of which he is an entity and an exposition. Because the CNB Act doesn't really protect Vujčić, Vujčić is irrelevant, he's a puppet in the end, he decides not to do anything but to protect his employers who gave him that policy and who won't let that policy stop. I believe that the law should allow political pressure on the governor to be put on the table because politics must be entrusted to the CNB because the CNB is not an institution for itself but is an institution that must be in service to both the people and the legislative authorities. It must be subject to the legislative authority because monetary authority is one, there is a trinity of government plus monetary authority and that is the key power because whoever has the power over money has the power over everything. As the Germans say... Thank you. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3209	Thank you very much. And the last replica, dear colleague Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3210	Dear Representative Pernar, first of all, I would like to join these calls by both the Government and the President of the State, the Ministry of Finance, as well as to order the leadership of the Parliament in front of the Parliament to be strongly manifested in connection with this letter which came from the ECB to treat us as an independent country and representatives of the people rather than something else. And Aristotle said that money comes from the state, not the other way around. We have a upside down situation today that the state-owned institution has the exclusive right to conduct monetary policy that it has imposed on that same state. But it's not just the gentlemen in Croatia. That's how it is in the EU, and that's why the world came here where it is. And that's why we're going to have a lot bigger problems. In that sense, I would like to point out once again what the composition of the HNB Council looks like. That's where the same people who run the CNB are sitting. So, they advise themselves, they are from a closed circle and even at the time of the socialism of black as we say there were independent experts who came, scientists from colleges and institutes who participated and consulted. But what I want to warn you about is that we do not often know what the right of the existing EU provides. People here probably think, among you, that independent experts are not allowed to be members of the CNB Council. Well, that's not true at all. Well, we've been researching, when I took part in writing this new bill that I'm going to present to MOST representatives after this discussion because I warned them that they have a duty as legislators to bring in other changes that are in collegiate with existing laws. So here's the thing very clearly, obviously. We have a problem that the CNB has taken everything and everything, that she wants to take charge of this Parliament and everything in society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3211	I thank my esteemed colleague, Lovrinovic. Replication response, dear colleague Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3212	Yes, Mr. Lovrinovic said the essential thing, the CNB was torn from Parliament. Because what, they say from Parliament. So we didn't install ourselves here, the people set us up, we represent the citizens and the National Bank must be in the service of the people. And the people rule through the election or election of their representatives. So it must be the Parliament who rules the CNB for the benefit of the citizens. What we have at the moment is that this group of hohstapplers on the CNB actually lives as a kidney in a lore completely absent from Croatian reality, do not see beggars begging at the crossing of that Draskovic and what is called the one where the main post office is i.e. This one, Jurisic. So the beggars are standing there and they don't see them. The bottles dig through the trash and they don't see them. They don't see the lines in front of the soup kitchens, they don't see anything, they don't care. They go to the Jacuzzi, they have at the Opera Hotel, they all go to Sheraton in the gym. Ladies and gentlemen do not care what the people think about this monetary policy, and in fact their job is to just do what the EU requires, and we are given the right to stay out of their business. So the job of the Parliament today is not to act in the interest of the Croatian people, but it is the job of the Parliament today not to interfere with the work of the CNB and to allow this criminal scheme in which the CNB is only exchanging money instead of giving it to the state and banks in business, meaning what it is about the crime that continues here for 22 years in a row. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3213	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar. With this, we've exhausted all the replicas and answers and this concludes the debate on this agenda point. We'll vote on this item on the agenda when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-02-0.u3214	The next item is the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Croatian National Bank, first reading, P.Z. No. Nine. It is proposed by the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. 1. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Croatian National Bank is hereby adopted. 1. Any comments, proposals and opinions will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please engage. Let's vote. The vote is over. I find that with most votes, 112 for, 7 abstentions and none against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
