ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u17843	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 2nd session of the Croatian Parliament and I warmly welcome you all to the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Andrej Plenkovic, Vice President, Vice-President and other members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The first session of the Croatian Parliament was held at the session. Any objections to the record? If there are no objections, I would like to point out that we have adopted the minutes of the 1st session of the Parliament in the proposed text. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the session's day-to-day work. With the invitation to the session, you also received a draft agenda. At the session, you are given the final draft agenda. I would like to stress that the new points proposed in the final draft agenda are printed in bolder letters. Those points did not contain the draft agenda that you received with the invitation. In the final draft agenda, I included 10 new points under regular numbers from 5 to 13 and point 25. These are: 5.Proposed amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2016 and projections for 2017 and 2018, Proposal for amendments and additions to the financial plans of non-profit users for 2016 and projection for 2017 and 2018 for Croatian Waters, Croatian Roads, Centre for Reconstruction and Sales, Environmental and Energy Efficiency, State Agency for Deposit Insurance and Rehabilitation of Banks, Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, Proposal for Amendments and Supplements to the State Budget and Financial Plans outside of Budgetary Users for 2016 consolidated. Explanation of the draft amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia and of the financial plans of the non-financial users for 2016. 6. Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2016, second reading, P.Z.BR.33, 7th Proposal for a Law on the Power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the part-line of the Croatian Parliament with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.34, 8. Proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the mission to support peace, resolution support in Afghanistan, 9th Proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces in UN peacekeeping operations, 10. Proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in an operation to support KFOR's peace in Kosovo, 11. Proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the EU Peace Support Operation NAVFOR Somalia, Atalanta, 12. Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the Deputy Attorney General. Proposer of Advocate General, 13. Proposal for a Decision appointing the president and eight members of the State Prize for Sports Committee "Franjo Bučar". Proposer of the Central State Sport Office and 25. Proposal for a Law amending the Value Added Tax Act with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.32. Proposer of the SDP representative club. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. I'm asking you to engage to check the quorum. I'm determining that we have a quorum and we can make a valid decision. In accordance with Article 205 of the Financial The Rules of Procedure will be decided on the draft laws for which the Proposer proposes to adopt in an emergency procedure, those are points 7 and 25 of the final draft agenda. 7.The proposal of the Law on the Authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.34. and 25. Proposal for a Law amending the Value Added Tax Act with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.32. Proposer of the SDP representative club. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of these laws? Mr. Bačić, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u17844	Thank you, Mr. President. The HDZ Club opposes the urgent process of amending the Value Added Tax Act. Last week, we discussed full tax reform, as well as amendments to the Value Added Tax Act. Another reading awaits us, I hope next week about the same law where the SDP Club will be able to make amendments to the bill and the government will manifest it, and therefore we do not see why this law, as proposed by just one article, would be implemented in an emergency procedure, which changes only one item of the Law on Value Added Tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u17845	Representative Opacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u17846	So we went on to amend the bill because that part doesn't change in the VAT law and we can't intervene through the amendments, so we went with the amendment of the law. It's about the nannies that are now entering the VAT system and paying the VAT. So the babysitters are one parent service that has slowly started to develop, and since we haven't had any, we now have 46 nannies, somewhere around 100 women are currently in the course of education and should very quickly open their crafts to babysitting and care for children and we believe that they should be freed from VAT payments such as free kindergartens that also take care of children. So if we want to help our parents have care for their children, then we should release the nanny. The law only went because it does not change in the existing VAT law and we cannot intervene with the amendment to what is not changed.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u17847	Thank you, Representative Opacic. I would ask you to approach the vote, who is in favour of the draft law amending the Value Added Tax Act, with the Final Proposal of the Law deciding on an urgent procedure. Please vote. Thank you. It was found that with 70 votes against, 3 abstentions and 41 for refusing the bill to go by emergency procedure and to go into regular procedure. There have been no written objections to the agenda I have proposed with the call for the session, and this agenda shall be in accordance with Article 225(3). The Rules of Procedure shall be deemed to have been established. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure may now be submitted only to those points which did not contain the draft agenda, accompanied by a call for a session. Points 7 and 25 have been declared when voting on urgency. Do any of the MPs and MPs have objections to the inclusion of points 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13 of the final draft agenda that did not include the draft agenda that you received with the invitation to the 2nd session? If there are no objections, I would like to determine that these points are included in the agenda of the 2nd session. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda has been established. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure should now publish the established agenda in an appropriate manner. I suggest that if you agree that I do not read it in full but allow me to announce that the agenda has been established as proposed in the final draft agenda with the exception of point 25, which goes in the regular procedure, rather than the emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u17848	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in accordance with Article 226(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the agenda of the 2nd session with four new points. 1. Proposal for a law on public procurement, with final bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 37, 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Water Economy Financing Act, with the Final Proposal for the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 36, 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act, with the Final Bill, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 35 and 1. Final draft law supplementing the Law on local elections, second reading, P.Z. Number 8. Proposal, Club of the Representatives of the Independent Lists. The proposal to supplement the agenda is divided into benches. Article 227 of the Rules of Procedure lays down, firstly, that a proposal is to be adopted by means of an urgent procedure. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure lay down that, following an urgent procedure, laws are adopted which comply with EU documents, if requested by the applicant, and are not voted on, that is, point 1 of the proposal for a public procurement law, with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 37. Article 206(1) is replaced by the following: I hereby declare that this legislative proposal is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Any of the representatives and advocates have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law under points 2 and 3 of the proposed amendment? These are the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Economy Financing Act with the Final Proposal for the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 36. And three. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act with the Final Bill, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 35. Here's a distinguished representative, Milorad Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u17849	Thank you, Vice President. On behalf of the HNS Club, we object to an emergency procedure under points 2 and 3. The proposal for a supplement, meaning the Water Economy Financing Act, primarily for the reasons that the amendments provided for by this law, I think should certainly be extended and related to a set of tax laws expected next week. There are also certain initiatives to complement this. However, if it is about changes and additions, we can only react through amendments to what is changing. So we're against urgency. Number 3. means the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act, so in this proposal, we oppose the law for a reason, there is no impact assessment. Furthermore, neither the GSV nor the National Council for Retireds gave their opinion and opinion on it. We therefore propose for points 2 and 3 of the regular procedure, a regular procedure and we will be against the urgency of the procedure. And so is the proposal, even if it's P.Z.E. I would like to point out that given the changes we have managed to see, we believe that it would also not be bad for the functionality of the procurement procedures themselves to be conducted in two readings, and I believe that this bill could also be enriched with much more quality proposals than through amendments. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u17850	Thank you very much. So we can only vote on this proposal for Law 2 and 3, this first one has been accepted since P.Z.E. Please, we'll vote now. So who is in order to be the emergency procedure as proposed, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Economy Financing Act with the final proposal for a law. And the draft law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act with the final bill? We'll go to the water economy first. Who's in for an emergency procedure, please? Please score. 64 is present, 63 is for, 1 abstention, we have no quorum. So as far as Law Three is concerned, we don't have a quorum again, so there's no point in voting on it. So about these two laws, so since there's no quorum, we can't vote any further. We'll vote on them on Tuesday. So, ladies and gentlemen, we have complemented the MPs with one item of the agenda, and that will end today's work. The session will continue on Tuesday, November 29th, at 9.30pm and we will begin voting on changes and additions to the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u17851	We are now moving on to the establishment of daily work, or the completion of the day-to-day work of the 2nd session. In accordance with Article 226(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and the Treaty on the Functioning of the 1. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Water Economy Financing Act with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.36, 1. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.35, 1. Final proposal of the Law on administrative cooperation in the field of tax, second reading, P.Z.E.BR.26, 1. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Act, second reading, P.Z.E.BR.27, 1. Final proposal Act amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, second reading, P.Z.E.BR.28., 1. Final proposal Law to administrative fees, second reading, P.Z.E.BR.29, 1. Final proposal Law amending and supplementing the Tax Advisory Act, second reading, P.Z.E.BR.30, 1. Final proposal of the General Tax Code, second reading, P.Z.E.BR.24., 1. Final proposal Law amending and supplementing the Law on profit tax, second reading, P.Z.BR.18., 1. Final proposal Income Tax Act, second reading, P.Z.BR.23., 1. Final proposal Law amending and supplementing the Law on fiscalisation in cash, second reading, P.Z.BR.25, 1. Final proposal to the Tax Administration, second reading, P.ZBR.22., 1. Final proposal Act amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions, second reading, P.Z.B.19., 1. Final proposal Law on Local Taxes, second reading, P.Z.BR.17., 1. Final proposal Law amending and supplementing the Customs Service Act, second reading, P.Z.BR.21, 1. Final proposal Law on Real estate tax, second reading, P.ZBR.16., 1. Final proposal Act amending and supplementing the Act on Special Tax on Motor Vehicles, second reading, P.Z.BR.20, 1. Proposal for a Law to measures to reduce the cost of installing high-speed electronic communications networks with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E.BR.41, 1. Proposal for a Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Measurement, a catalogue of real estate with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E.BR.40., 1. Proposal for a Act amending the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.39. The proposal to supplement the agenda is divided into benches. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Please include the quorum check operation. I find that we have a quorum and that we can make a valid decision. This Regulation shall enter into The Rules of Procedure lay down that, following an urgent procedure, laws are adopted which comply with EU documents if requested by the applicant and are not voted on, those are points 18 and 19 of the proposed amendments, the draft Law to measures to reduce the costs of the deployment of high-speed electronic communications networks with the final proposal of the law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.B.41. And 19. Proposal for a Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Measurement, a catalogue of real estate with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E.BR.40. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I hereby establish that these legal proposals are included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Any of the representatives and representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law under points 1, 2 and 20 of the proposed amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u17852	Thank you, Mr. President. The HNS Club opposes the urgency of passing laws under regular numbers 1, 2 and 20. First of all, we believe that the proposed amendments are not sufficient, and one part of the law that tangs the financing of the water economy is supposed to be brought into line with this set of tax laws that we are going to discuss this week. We therefore propose a regular procedure, there is no reason for urgency, and I believe that this would be a good solution for the law itself, and primarily because it is two categories, it is a water contribution and compensation for water regulation, too, which can be understood as tax revenues and are not in line with the Real estate tax law either. Therefore, we believe that a regular procedure should be introduced. Furthermore, proposal number two of the Amendment Laws and the Completion of the Pension Insurance Act. In fact, given the procedural view of this bill, the Economic Social Council did not discuss it, did not discuss it, no impact assessment was made. And I don't think the Retired National Council has discussed this bill either. So we consider procedural errors to be why you should go into the regular procedure. And bill number 20. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government. We believe that this is an important topic, and those amendments that we have seen in the proposed amendments and amendments to the law simply do not correspond to the facts that the Minister himself said in the first reading of tax laws that this Law on the financing of local self-government units will also address the long-term financing of local self-government units in the way of the second rate of financing based on income tax. So we're looking for a regular procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u17853	Here's Agent Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u17854	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament. As regards the amendment and addition of the Law on the financing of local self-government, this amendment applies and is conditional upon the adoption of the Law on Local Taxes. In fact, we have already discussed the Law on Local Taxes in the first reading as practically the laws that this Law on Local Taxes covers. At the division of the Law on the financing of local self-government if we accept, and I hope that we will discuss this week and this law, then we must automatically amend the Law on Local Self-Government, or on the financing of local self-government, because these laws are just coming out of this law which we are dealing with by the Law on Local Taxes. It is therefore necessary to pass such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u17855	Here's your representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u17856	Well, I announced a simple violation of the Rules of Procedure. My colleague Bacic is having sex with me, and he could also ask for a word to declare the urgency of the procedure. He does not need to give reasons, even though I appreciate his opinion. That argument should have been given to you, Mr. President. Therefore, it is the proposer of existing laws that must explain why the urgency or why the procedure is regular. Don't get me wrong, but procedurally, I would right now, you should give me your word that I will re-answer my colleague, Bačić, why I insist on regular procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u17857	Thank you. I can stick to the stricter Rules of Procedure, not a problem. Next time, I'll explain absolutely all the changes. Thank you. We are now going to vote on urgency for each of these three proposals. The first proposal is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Economy Financing Act with the Final Proposal for the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 36. Would you please state who's in favour? The vote is over. I find that most votes, 82 for, without abstentions and 28 against this bill are included in the emergency procedure on the agenda. The second draft law is the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act with the Final Proposal for the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 35. I'd like you to state who's in order to get into the agenda by emergency procedure? The vote is over. I find that most votes, 81 for, 1 abstention and 28 against this bill are included in the agenda by emergency procedure. I Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 39. I'd like the MPs to vote. Who is it for this bill to be placed on the agenda by emergency procedure? The vote is over. I find that most votes, 83 for, without abstentions and 28 against, and this bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Any of the MPs and MPs have objections to the inclusion of the remaining points in the agenda of the second session. These are points three to seventeen proposed additions? If there are no objections, these points are also included in the session agenda. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the addition of the agenda has been established. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in accordance with Article 226(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the agenda of the 2nd session with 15 new points. 1. Proposal for a law on alternative consumer dispute resolution, with the Final Bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 45, 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Accounting Act, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 51, 1. Proposal for a law on the acquisition and registration of weapons of citizens, with the Final Bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 55, 1. Proposal for a law on explosive substances, and production and transport of weapons, with the Final Bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 54, 1. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Registration, with the Final Proposal for a Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 43, 1. Proposal for a law establishing infrastructure for alternative fuels, with final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 48, 1. Proposal for a law on combined freight transport, with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 53, 1. Proposal for a Law confirming the Protocol on the Accession of the European Community to the International Convention on Cooperation in the Safety of Air Navigation Eurocontrol of 13 December 1960, as amended on several occasions and agreed by Protocol 27 June 1997, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 49, 1. Proposal for a law amending the Law on Police, with the Final Bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 56. Ten. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Payments of Judges and other Judicial Officers with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 47. 11. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Attending Activity with the Final Proposal for the Law, emergency procedures, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 46. 12. Proposal for a law confirming the Framework Agreement between the Swiss Federal Council and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the implementation of the Swiss Croatian Co-operation Programme to reduce economic and social inequalities within the enlarged EU with the Final Bill Proposal, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 52. 13. Proposal for a law on the validation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America on the improvement of the fulfilment of tax obligations at international level and the implementation of the FCA with the Final Bill, is an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 44. 14. Proposal for a law confirming a provisional agreement establishing a framework for an economic partnership agreement between the Member States of East and South Africa on the one hand and the European Community and its Member States on the other hand with the Final Proposal for a Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 50 15. Final draft law on local elections, second reading, P.Z. No. 18, Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. The proposal to supplement the agenda is divided into benches. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Please engage to check the quorum. I'm determining that we have a quorum and that we can make a rightful decision. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure lay down that, following an urgent procedure, laws are adopted which comply with EU documents if requested by the applicant and are not voted on. These are points 1 to 8 of the proposed supplement. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I find that these legal proposals are included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Any of the representatives and representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law under points 9 to 14 of the proposed amendment? Agent Pernar, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u17859	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I don't think there's any rush in this regard to the procedure and that this proposed agenda could go in a regular procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u17860	You didn't point out what agenda points you mean?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u17861	On those grounds, which relate to the Directives of the European Union. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u17862	I must warn you that all the bill proposals that go towards European gains are not discussed, they are certainly going according to an emergency procedure. Thank you. In the absence of any comments, it is considered that a proposal for an emergency procedure has been adopted in accordance with Rule 205 of the Rules of Procedure. Any of the MPs and MPs have any objections to the inclusion of the remaining points in the agenda of the 2nd session, that is, point 15 of the proposed supplement? If there are no objections, this item is also included in the session agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the agenda has been established. We're moving on to the agenda. Before that, a notice. The third session of the Defence Committee scheduled for today at 10:30, will take place immediately after the vote on the completion of the agenda. In accordance with Article 226(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European First, the proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on Foreigners with a final proposal for the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 59. Secondly, the proposal for a Law supplementing the Small Economy Development Act with a final proposal for the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 62. Third, a proposal for a Law amending the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities with a final proposal for the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 61. Fourthly, the proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Protocol to the Convention on the Agreement on the International Transport of Goods by the CBR, with the final proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 63. Fifthly, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Command of the Supreme Allied Commander for Transformation as well as the Supreme Command of Allied Forces in Europe on providing support to the host state for the implementation of NATO military activities with the final proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 60. Sixth, Proposal for a Minimum Payment Act with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 57. Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. Seven, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Obligations and Rights of State officials with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 64. Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. Eight, a proposal for a Decision appointing the Deputy Advocate and Deputy Advocate for Persons with Disabilities. Proposed by the Attorney General for Persons with Disabilities. Ninth, Report on the audit of the effectiveness of the work of the supervisory boards of companies owned by units of local and regional regional self-government. The applicant is the State Audit Office. 10th, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia, first reading, P.Z. Number 42. Proposer of the Club of HNS and HSU Representatives. Eleventh, half-year information on the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy for the first half of 2016. Carrier of the Croatian National Bank. Twelveth, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on areas of special state care, first reading, P.Z. Number 38. Proposer Darinko Dumbovic. Thirteenth, the proposal of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017 and projections for 2018 and 2019 and proposals for financial plans of extra- budget users for 2017 and projection of plans for 2018 and 2019 for Croatian Waters, Croatian Roads, Centre for Reconstruction and Sales, Environment and Energy Efficiency, State Agency for Deposit Insurance and Rehabilitation of Banks, Croatian Institute for Health Insurance. Proposal for a State budget and financial plans of non-financial beneficiaries for 2017 as well as projections for 2018 and 2019 An explanation of the proposal for the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia and the draft financial plans of the non-financial beneficiaries for the year 2017 of the projection for 2018 and 2019. Fourteenth, final proposal of the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017, second read P.Z. Number 58. The proposal to supplement the agenda is divided into benches. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Please engage to check the quorum. I find that the quorum exists, and that we can rightly decide. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure lay down that, following an urgent procedure, laws are adopted which comply with EU documents if requested by the applicant and are not voted on. This is the point of one proposed addition to the Amendments and Supplements Act with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 59. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I hereby declare that this legislative proposal is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Any of the representatives and representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law under points 2 to 7 of the proposed amendment? Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u17864	Thank you, Mr. President. The Croatian Democratic Community Club notes the inclusion of the emergency procedure under points 6 and 7 of the Law on Minimum Payment and the Law amending the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials. As for the amendments to the Minimum Payment Act. I remind you it's a minimum wage bill. I remind you that the Minimum Payment Act was adopted in 2013 on the proposal of the Government of Zoran Milanovic, and this law provides for the government to establish the level of minimum wage by a regulation. Just yesterday the government increased the minimum wage, so there is no, we hold that there is no need at this time to conduct and discuss the emergency procedure of this law and we propose that it go into regular procedure. As far as the proposal for a law amending the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials is concerned, we also ask that this law go into regular procedure for the following reason. Namely, the last amendments to the Income Tax Act, and especially these amendments to the Income Tax Act that we adopted last week, have led to an increase in salaries and in the employment sector of state and public enterprises. As this earlier amendment of the law has led to a disproportion in i-pays between the highest positions of civil servants and individual state officials, for example, ministers' assistants, and as already, with the adoption of this law, further disrupted pay relations in the entire state administration sector, we suggest that we discuss this law and look at the pay policy of the entire sector, so all employees in the state sector, through the first and second readings, and then also determine ourselves according to the salaries of officials, and according to the salaries of state officials. In that sense, I am looking for a vote on both point 6 and point 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u17865	I suggest that the vote be voted first on point 6. Who answered for it? Representative Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u17866	Thank you, Mr. President. The HNS Club opposes the urgency of passing laws, meaning the proposal for a law supplementing the Small Enterprise Development Act, point two. Point 3. Proposal for a membership law to the tourist communities. Proposal for a minimum wage law and point 7. Proposed measure law. We believe that these laws should be discussed although the proposed changes may be minimal, but given the very subject, on the complexity of the topic and how these changes and the existing law will reflect both on the small economy and on the tourist communities, as well as on the minimum wage, we believe that two readings should be carried out. We object to the urgency of the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u17867	Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u17868	Mr. President, the SDP club would ask a 10-minute break to consult on the emergency vote for these laws that are proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u17869	You've been granted a break of 10 minutes. It's 10.40 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.55 HOURS]] We're going back to work. I'd like to ask Mr. Attorney Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u17871	... First of all, we have referred the Minimum Salary Act to the parliamentary procedure. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] 50,000 people in Croatia work for minimum wage, it's 50,000 people, 50,000 families, 50,000 people's fates that have children and whose basic human dignity is threatened by the low wage they receive. And one way to correct this injustice in Croatia is to pass a minimum wage law that will allow these people 286 kunas more in the first year, and already next year a similar amount for 2018 and continue to work in harmony. Today in Croatia, the average wage is 40.3% of the average gross salary. In Germany, that amount is 60%. We want people in Croatia to live off their work, not to work and live. And in Croatia no one should be punished because he is a worker and because he works. Therefore, our goal is good society, a society with equal chances and a society where minimum wage should be greater. The 286 kuna increase of January 1st will allow these people to have better quality food, free activity for their children, but it is also safe. the ability to pay for the directories that most certainly part of the people can barely make ends meet. So what I'm going to say and what I'm going to say again is that we're eligible to limit the salaries of government officials, but support the Minimum Pay Act, support the pay increases for workers. So, we will support a reduction and a pay limit for government officials, but support an increase in salaries for workers from 1.1. Mr. Petrov, President of the Parliament, I have sent you today an open letter calling for a meeting, a joint agreement on cooperation for the future of Croatia in key topics that are important to us, important as a vision of our country's development by 2050, a reform of local self-government that needs to be reformed so that Croatia is better and more successful, so that cities and municipalities can better attract investment and create new jobs and sit around what we can do for all people in Croatia living from their work, and in particular 50,000 people working for minimum wage. I believe that you will find time in the weeks ahead of us, in the days ahead and the opportunities to meet us, to talk and to see what we can do together for our country, to make it better in Croatia, to make people have basic human dignity and to see what development challenges Croatia faces, and especially to continue the interrupted reform of education because education is one of the pillars and should be one of the pillars of Croatian society and it is unacceptable to...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u17872	I'd only ask that if it's possible to just stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u17873	Yes, thank you very much. So I invited you to talk and what I'm going to end up telling you. So as a SDP club, we've sent it to the procedure, I'm going to repeat the Minimum Payment Act and we're ready to support the pay limit of officials but support the increase in salaries for workers and workers in Croatia. Let's at least give them a hint of hope before this Christmas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u17874	Thank you, Agent Bernardic. One notice before continuing work, the first session of the Committee on Regional Development and EU funds to be held today at 11.00 am at the Ante Starcevic Hall will be held immediately after the vote in the same hall. Since observations have been made to the potential emergency procedure referred to in points 2, 3, 6 and 7, they will be voted individually on all of those points whether the parliamentary representatives are in favour of the urgent procedure in these four points. I would ask the MPs to vote on whether the proposal for a law to supplement the Small Economy Development Act is going through an urgent procedure with the Final Proposal of the Law. Please vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes 114 are for, without abstentions and 14 against that bill are going through an urgent procedure. The third item in addition to the agenda is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities, with the Final Proposal of the Law. I ask the MPs to vote whether the said law goes according to an emergency procedure? The vote is over. I find that the majority of the votes are 118 for, without abstentions and 15 against that bill are going through an urgent procedure. 6th Supplement, Proposal for a minimum wage law, with the Final Bill. I would ask the MPs to plead whether those laws go according to an emergency procedure? The vote is over. I find that most votes are 92 against, 2 abstentions and 39 for the above law do not go by emergency procedure. So they're going to go in two readings, so they're going to go in first reading. And the 7th addition: Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.64. Would you ask the MPs to vote on whether the said law goes according to an emergency procedure? The vote is over. I find that most of the votes 81 against, 32 abstentions and 20 for that law go to first reading. Is there anyone I would like to ask you to stick to the order, do any of the MPs and MPs have any objections to the inclusion of the remaining points in the agenda of the 2nd session? If there is no such thing as points 8 to 14 of the proposed supplement. If there are no objections these points are included in the session agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the agenda has been established. There are two amendments so these two laws go according to emergency procedures. If there's no one more than a request for a break, before I approve a break, I'd just like to meet the MPs today to proceed with the 5 points planned. I'll just read them for a while, so here's the plan. So we plan to put into discussion - Final proposal of the Act on Alternative Resolution of Consumer Disputes, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z.E.BR.45, - Final Proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on Small Economy Development, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z.BR.62, - Final Proposal for the Law amending the Law on Police, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z.BR.56, - Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments to the Law on the Food Activity, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z.BR.46. i - Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on memberships in tourist communities, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.61.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18074	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister. I wish I didn't have to ask you this question, and you don't have to tie this current clock to this kind of question, but unfortunately, on behalf of the SDSS club, we have to do it because the recovery and reconstruction of the low voltage network was supposed to be completed by 2008. Today, 2016, this process is not over. The latest funds invested in the government since 2011, unfortunately neither HEP nor the ministry that dealt with it and in the meantime transferred responsibility from one another, have allowed 83 villages and villages in the area of 25 municipalities and 6 counties to finish the job in villages that are the masquerading Serb villages. For this reason, Mr. Prime Minister, we believe that you and your government will find a solution that this already somewhat embarrassing, embarrassing state of affairs is changing and that people who are legally entitled to electricity, who, by law, have the right to be joined by electricity 30 days after the renewal is completed, are not waiting for so many years to have what most people receive under the law or on the basis of the necessary need.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18075	I would like to thank Mr. Pupovac. Answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18076	First of all, a lovely greeting to all representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Parliament, the esteemed colleague of Pupovac. I am familiar with the problem that you have mentioned now, and it is about not quick enough electrification of those areas which were naturally covered by war injuries during the time of the aggression on Croatia. You know that the Croatian state has invested large funds in both reconstruction and housing from the peaceful reintegration process until today. Unfortunately, this process, which is primarily responsible for HEP, has not been completed in accordance with the plans you mentioned. My government is aware of this problem. We will be in charge of the regional development ministry concerned first and foremost by the effort to develop evenly all corners of Croatia, and that all our citizens have equal conditions regarding available infrastructure and electricity infrastructure and especially low voltage networks in return settlements. It seems to me that this process is too slow, that it puts a part of our citizens in an unequal position, and that is the task we will give not only to the Ministry but also to Croatia's electricity companies to fulfil the plan which, according to the information that has been available to me in 2012 but is not realised. And therefore both the Ministry and HEP will, in the time ahead, approach the solution to this problem in order to ensure the normal sustainable life of returnees in those parts of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18077	Thank you. Commissioner Milorad Pupovac's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18078	I thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament, and thank you, Mr. Prime Minister, for your response, and I believe that your answer will be different from the answers we have heard since 2011 from your predecessors who have resulted in the fact that until today we have not solved this problem. I trust that, we at the SDSS Club hope that it will be just as you said in your answer. Because refurbishment of the infrastructure both at the same time and at the same time water, roads are a fundamental assumption for normalisation of life in a wide range of Republics that have been affected by war and which does not seek a great deal of resources, which does not seek something that does not belong to these areas and these people but requires only a slightly greater commitment, somewhat more focus and a slightly greater focus than we have in recent years. Thank you for your direction and commitment that you and your government will have this focus and that the population in these areas will finally get what has been unwarranted and undeservedly held in the position in which it is held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18079	Thank you, Agent Pupovac. The next representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18080	I thank the President of the Parliament. Dear Minister Dobrović, I would like to ask you to clarify the situation and the current problem of promoting renewable energy sources in the Republic of Croatia. Here, I'd like an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18081	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18082	Thank you very much. I welcome President-in-Office of the Parliament, thank you for the matter of Parliament's representative, Grumoja. I warmly welcome you all. So the first thing worth saying is that increasing the share of renewable energy sources in the energy system of the Republic of Croatia is necessary and desirable. So we're practically committed, we have existing obligations, we have those that we're currently ratifying, so with the aim of reducing the dependence on special fuels. However, the problem that we have here is related to the way the issue of the integration of renewable energy sources is regulated because, as you all probably know, there are privileged contracts, i.e. contracts with renewable energy producers, which at privileged prices sell produced energy into the energy system, through our HROTE operator. The problem, therefore, is that it pays relatively high, depending on the date of conclusion of the contract, a high amount so for that electricity. These funds come from two sources, one is the compensation for renewable energy sources and the other is the sale of these energy to our suppliers. What is happening now, especially this year, and the next one will also blow up is the imbalance since the number of contracts reached, or the amount of energy produced, is one big increase. The specific problem is to amend and supplement the Electricity Market Act of September 2015 when it is without a previous valid analysis, since we know the character of renewable energy sources is such that the energy system must be adaptable to such shocks, this can be achieved, however certain changes are needed. So there was no previous analysis, nor an analysis of the economic impact on our consumers. So they created unusually large new obligations. So now we're facing a major imbalance that we need to find solutions for. The Ministry is working hard on it. So we will propose a transitional period, and all stakeholders of the system will have to adapt practically to all of this with a view to making it possible for these contracts to be fulfilled, i.e. the contractual obligations we have, and so that the impact, therefore, on our consumers, would be smaller. So we're going to use all possible mechanisms, and we're going to be working on the development of the stock market, so the electricity that we think can be significantly strengthened and so that can be one segment. Of course, this problem includes an analysis of all these contracts, since there are pretty solid indications that there have been conjectures here. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18083	I thank Minister Dobrovic. Agent Nicole Grmoy's answer? No, I don't. The next representative who, the representative who answered the question, is MP Zeljka Josic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18084	Here's my question for Mr. Minister of Health, Mr. Kujundzic. We've recently witnessed media reports closing down catering facilities for smoking in these facilities themselves. The owners of the catering facilities themselves expressed their dissatisfaction but some of them admitted to breaking the law. My question, Mr. Minister, is as far as the sanitary inspection itself is concerned, has this sanitary inspection acted in accordance with the law, and has the catering facilities really been damaged, or if the sanitary inspection is right, why has this law not been implemented so far? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18085	I thank Representative Josic. Minister Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18086	Dear Madam MPs, ladies and gentlemen, what we will all agree on is that tobacco smoke, or nicotine, is harmful and other, in which we will all agree that the law is the same for everyone and that we should stick to it. So in this particular case, there were four catering facilities where the owners had been warned earlier and went with mild financial, or monetary penalties, but after that they continued to break the law. And then the smallest measures were applied, so the restaurants were closed for 8 days. And I believe that's one thing, so if you want a pedagogical warning to others not to. And I hope that won't happen in the future. So, I think we need to protect ourselves but if we don't protect ourselves then at least we need to respect the health of others and not harm them until we decide here in this House something else that doesn't hurt anyone, and unfortunately it hurts. So I think it was a mild warning measure and that in this sense the system will function better that no one has suffered more serious damage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18087	I thank Minister Kujundzic. The next representative to answer the question is MP Drago Prgomet
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18088	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on other occasions and circumstances of the arrest and indictment of Croatian defenders from Bosnia Posavina would probably be just one cartoon in the efforts of the neighbouring state of BIH to solve war crimes in its premises. However, this event has raised so many questions, comments from the fact that it is the fiasco of our intelligence services, from the fact that it is a message from the BIH not to be a strong promoter of the entry of the BIH into the EU until we return the BIH ourselves by pressing non-selective charges. I am convinced that these comments do not have a serious foothold or credibility and the Republic of Croatia is concerned and must be in the interest of investigating and helping to investigate every crime both in the BIH and in the Republic of Croatia, bearing in mind a number of unexplored crimes committed by Vukovar, Skabrnje, Vočina etc. Before I ask the question, allow me just a few facts, the fact is that over 2,000 people were killed in the 6 months of the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that 200 thousand people were exiled, that today Bosnian Posavina was burned, that 29 children were killed in Slavonski Brod during the war, and as far as I know, no one is ever responsible. Well, he has the right to ask himself a question about the selective approach of the neighbouring states' judiciary. I repeat, the interest of the Republic of Croatia is to investigate, help, in no way prevent the processing of crime and my question is what you will take as Prime Minister and as Government not to be surprised again by new indictments, especially in the context of media appearances that will be conducted against hundreds of Croatian officers who have been in the BiH or participated in its defence. What will the Republic of Croatia do on the way of the BIH as a full EU and NATO alliance, so what will be your actions in terms of assistance.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18089	Representative Prgomet time. You've exceeded half a minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18090	Thank you. Which will be procedures to assist the Croatian defenders of the Bosnian Posavina.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18091	Thank you, Agent Prgomett. Answer the question of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18092	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague Prgomett. You have opened one of the biggest political issues we have faced in the past month and several days since we assumed the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The fact that arrests in Bosnia's Posavina came just two and a half days after my first official visit as Prime Minister and Vice President, Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign and European Affairs Minister Stier showed indicative timing of the move. It's about criminal acts that took place in 92 and 93, so 23 years ago. I am the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia I am convinced and this House of the High is that every crime, every crime should be investigated, prosecuted and properly handled by the courts, and the perpetrators should be held accountable. That's the government's position, we made that clear after these events happened. At the same time, the Republic of Croatia is against orchestrated timing, against selective access to individual indictees and selective access to certain criminal acts. The co-operation between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia in judicial cooperation has taken place in different ways over the past years. It was regulated by agreements between the two states, agreements between the state's attorney and the prosecution. As part of the process, different information and data were exchanged. The fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and not even the service were familiar with the prosecution of these charges and with the decision to detain a number of Croatian officers because the two members of the Croatian Army, the other 10 members of the HVO, of course, are worrying about us. We have responded in the most effective way possible by deciding to provide full consular assistance to our citizens, by deciding to establish a commission headed by Minister Medved, who, together with other resolutions, collects all relevant information to provide legal and financial assistance to the people who are currently in this process, who are holding what defends them from freedom. We also renewed the Council for Co-operation with international criminal courts within the framework of this advice at the highest level, we will define our policy according to those cases that have been delegated from the level of The Hague court to the judiciary of the former SFRY and quality of the analysis of how these processes can also affect the truth about events at the time of the Greater Serbian Milosevic's aggression on Croatia and then on BiH, on the truth about the Homeland War and on the protection of Croatian interests and Croatian officers, members of the Croatian Army. You have also seen another attempt to manipulate and discredit Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister Damir Krstičević these days, we will oppose all counterfeits and all efforts to destabilise the government and upset Croatian defenders. We will lead politics responsibly, and we will insist on BiH's strong, strong and unequivocal support on its path to the EU because it is the only way for BiH's cohesion and sustainability and for the quality protection of Croats as an equal and constitutive people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18093	Thank you. The answer is that you have half a minute less.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18094	Half of three minutes less. Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your response. I'd like to repeat some of the things you said if they're personal to me. First, you downloaded one taboo topic, so the fact is that the Croatian Army was in Bosnia's Posavina, the fact that I was there for one reason, we defended BiH from the same policy and from the same perpetrators who were aggressors to the Republic of Croatia a year before that. We have defended BiH for which I am pleased to see you continue to join NATO, to join the EU because good relations with neighbours are of national interest and this must be the interest of all regardless of ideological and party membership. And third, you issued a clear view of the war crime. I repeat what I said in the introduction, Croatia cannot, must not, and obviously will not prevent any truths about war crimes. It's not just political, it's not just legal, it's a civilized, above all human question. And will not end war at least in our consciousness until the mother finds her son's last grave and the criminal is punished for his crime. But only by law, and not by our understanding of justice and righteousness. I know it's not easy because many of us carry terrible emotions, carry great emotions of suffering in the war, but it's possible that you'll have support and these people, Mr. President. Let me finish my speech today with a statement from a dear colleague of our Parliament who sits several rows behind us, who lost both her father and her mother and the war.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18095	I apologize, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18096	And when asked whether she hated the aggressor, she said, "I don't feel hate for anyone, revenge would identify me with an aggressor who came here to destroy and kidnap others, and it would be a personal defeat."
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18097	Thank you. The next representative to answer the question is MP Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18098	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister. I'm asking a question, and even though this is the beginning of your government's work, there's not even a month left for you and the ministers and ministers to work successfully. I am interested because I come from Slavonia, you have announced in your pre-election program the assistance of Slavonia and Baranja, Podravina and Srijem, your project Slavonia we expect much from him, we have asked for amendments 186 million kuna in the past budget, which unfortunately could not be realized. Here's what I want to know about the dynamics of Project Slavoni? Will it be possible to start all this already in the 2017 budget and what is specifically expected for all five Slavonian counties or for the Eastern Croatian area? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18099	I thank Representative Salapic. Answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18100	Thank you, colleague Salapic. I'll use a few seconds to answer this question to say that this is a colleague Marijana Balic who said this in her interview and who comes from Vukovar, I think it's important that the public knows that. I thank my colleague Salapic for asking. We stressed in the election campaign that for the new Croatian government Slavonia is a priority. And I have said several times that Slavonia does not start for us where these five traditional Slavonian counties are going, but we might as well say that Slavonia begins both in Moslavina and in Banovina and in Podravina and goes further both to Slavonia and to Baranja and West Srijem. I am saying this because we are all aware of the economic difficulties and the demographic very unfavourable trend that we are witnessing in Slavonia. Therefore, it is our idea, and this is reflected in a certain way in the human resources policy of this government, you have seen that both the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Regional Development are young colleagues from Slavonia who have been given the priority to be the main engines of our policy implementation towards our so-called. The Slavonia project is said to provide 2.5 billion euros exclusively for projects in the 5 Slavonian counties. It is about trying to prevent demographic decline, it is about trying to use all the instruments and tools that exist within our agricultural policy to keep our people in Slavonia, to develop a Croatian village, to contribute to rural development, so that young people choose to stay in Slavonia and start their families. Also in the context of regional development, we will approach the creation of a new development index. We believe that in this way, in a more appropriate way, we would be able to see the nuances of how many parts of Croatia are depressed with the development potential that some others have and that we would be sure to prevent poverty and further departure of our people, especially young people from Slavonia. Therefore, we will also direct the policies of individual ministries and budgets in the right way so that Slavonia will not only be a Croatian cereal, not only a combination of green and blue Croatia but also that part of Croatia that will also use the potential of our internal but also those that we receive as an additional value from the EU budget for the balanced regional development of Croatia. We gave the signal on that trail last week when we symbolically held the 4th session of our government in Vukovar on the 25th anniversary of the occupation of Vukovar and the day of remembrance. The fact that we have succeeded in allocating 60 million kuna for various Vukovar projects confirms our strong and firm orientation that Slavonia in the developmental sense in the next few years and by the end of this financial perspective, from which we are currently receiving EU funding, is taking advantage of all the opportunities and that this spirit of the positive that we are trying to bring into Croatian society is also being transferred to the east of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18101	I thank the Prime Minister. Representative Salapic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18102	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, you have announced in your opening speech in the Parliament that there is a profound change in behaviour in Croatian politics, and that is why you have received the support of the HDSSB although our party is not formally part of the ruling coalition, we have specifically followed the Slavonia project, announced 2.5 billion euros in investment and many other projects you have announced. I believe that we will find a common political language when we do a new state budget for 2017, that amendments coming from Slavonia will pass a session of the Government, so let's see what can be done in the first step in 2017. And also this change in the direction of behaviour in Croatian politics regardless of what policy options we come from. If the national interest is the development of the entire Republic of Croatia, then it should be an interest of even development and our unfortunately war-torn areas of 5 Slavonian counties. To all of us and I believe that it will be time and it should show that both ambition and goal and work in the policy of economic progress and social development of the Republic of Croatia, and I especially ask you, Prime Minister, that this announcement for Slavonia and Baranja is not how it was from past prime ministers and we were constructive but we have not seen the results. We expect a lot from you, so you have our full support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18103	I thank Representative Salapic. The representative who also answered the question is Representative Blaženko Boban, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18104	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. My question would be to Minister Kuštević. Dear Minister, we have witnessed last week through a debate on a package of tax laws that most of the remarks were on the proposal to abolish the decision not to pay taxes on first real estate, which mainly refers to young people and young families and related to demographic policy as well. I remember that under the then Act on subsidisation of housing loans that I think was passed during Minister Bačić in just two years, '11. and '12. 2253 requests very favourable for young families. It is to compare that during those two years compared to the POS programme in 11 years where an average 454 apartments were built annually and here I mention in 2253 by this model the buyer was the location and surface and everything was solved in one place and then the SDP unfortunately this law was the one that was done. Mr. Minister, can you tell us on a concrete example for the sake of the great interest of young people how many benefits these were under the still valid SDP law, whether the new law is similar to that of the 2011 model and how much benefits will be at the same equivalent of the value of the apartment proposed by you and this Government, and when this law is expected to go into effect so that young families can do what they expect and how they expect and when. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18105	I would like to thank Agent Boban, Minister Kuscevic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18106	President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Petrov, Croatian Prime Minister Mr Plenkovic, fellow ministers and fellow ministers, parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. Here, I'm glad you raised this question, Mr. Boban. And indeed HDZ announced in the election campaign the adoption of the House Loan Subsidisation Act, and since our slogan was credible, this is what we are going to do right now and to draw up a draft of that law. So, we've already made the bill, in the next, in December we'll refer it to the government's procedure. Here I sincerely hope that the Government will accept it in this or in a slightly altered form, we have the support of the President of the Croatian Government and that we will refer it to the Parliament procedure at the beginning of next year. You pulled the parallel well with the law that existed in 2011, 2012 during Minister Bačić and HDZ's government, and the results were really excellent. Just what we're doing, this bill of law, that's what I'd say is a redefined and improved version of that law. Why would I think that? Because this law allows us to buy the first real estate or replacement property in case of family enlargement. But not only new apartments, in new construction, but also used apartments and houses. Why used apartments, here we think a double effect is achieved. In fact, we think that this will enable our fellow citizens to resolve the housing issue and stay on theirs I would tell the hearths. In Nuštr and my Nerežišće on Bračuneme new apartments on the market, there is no housing and this way we will allow them to buy here at their place of residence to buy a new apartment and stay in it. So again or used real estate. We also think that we will carry out a certain kind of urban regeneration, so there is no need to spend new space on new construction, if there are and there are facilities that need to be renovated, old facilities, re-unites in which people can make their own quality home and quality accommodation. The basic tension of the law is that we will co-finance 50% of credit rates for the first four years. And another new thing about the old law is that if a young family gets a child or adopts a child during that co-financing period, then we will extend that period from one year to two depending on how much we will manage to secure funds in the budget and how the Government will approve it. As for some, say the former SDP government when it abolished the property sales tax to buy the first real estate, it saved 5%. If we take an apartment of 100,000 euros, say, that buyer saved 5 thousand euros. In ours, according to our draft of this law, we can do the next calculation here at the amount of 100,000 euros. The monthly loan war would be 603 euros, of which 50% would be 301.68 euros subsidized by the state. In 4 years, this amount is 14 480 euros. So the real estate tax used to be 5,000 euros, 5% that means 9,000 euros would save citizens by this model. Here is now the new bill of law to reduce real estate tax to 4%, which means that this first-income buyer would pay 4000 euros in real estate tax. In any case, if this House adopts this law then each Croatian citizen who buys his first real estate will save about 7.8 thousand euros depending on the level of annuity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18107	I thank Minister Kuštević. Agent Blaženko Boban's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18108	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Yes, I am pleased, but it is less important how happy I am or all of us colleagues here in the Parliament are, it is very important that I hope that this elaborated issue will satisfy young people and young families within the Republic of Croatia. One small suggestion when making this law might be to categorize the subsidies of young people so that some 60% of loans in 4 years are paid by state subsidies to people, for example, young people in Dalmatia, Slavonia and Lica, because we help families in these rural areas. It is not the same when a man decides to buy an apartment or property in Sinj, Imotski, Vrgorac, Knin, somewhere in Slavonia or Zagreb and Split. I think this small supplement would be good, even if it is at the expense of those of 10%, for example, subsidies in the area of the big cities of Zagreb, Rijeka or Split. In this way, we help the rural area of young families to stay in the area with additional subsidies compared to those that will buy these apartments I say in urban parts of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18109	I thank Representative Boban. Representative Josip Krizanic also answered the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18110	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, I ask Minister Tolusic. Dearly esteemed, regarding the current situation of the flooding of the Croatian market with cheap import products proven to be of poor quality, I ask you the question of the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament asked the former Minister of Roma for urgent adoption of the Law on Fair Croatian Practice, so I ask you at what stage is the law making and why has it not yet been passed? Namely, the trade chains of foreign owners remain uncontrollably importing an enormous amount of food, selling at... prices that I have been talking about in this House for a year. Wineries are desperate, 3 liters 15 kuna, packaging included, VAT, transport and trade margin. We import pre-existing beans, garlic from China, all kinds of fruit without taste or smell. It's only material damage because they've been deceived by consumers because of their poor quality. From foods of animal origin are imported for months old eggs, years old meat without declaration, date of first freezing, or yesterday I listen to a special salami of 4.99 kg. There is an age not only of poor quality, but also of enormously endangered food safety where I think of health care. Therefore, the law must also include an article on the ban on advertising basic life needs such as meat, milk, eggs, bread or vegetables because the poorest layers of people buy exactly such action products without considering the consequences. I'm also afraid to think that the principals of our kindergartens, because of the pressure on the economic price of kindergartens, bought this kind of salami on action, believing it was edible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18111	I thank Representative Križanić. Minister Tolusic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18112	Here, thank you. First of all, welcome to the President of the Parliament, our prime minister, our colleagues and colleagues to ministers and ministers, of course, all the honourable parliamentary deputies. So here I would say at first when we talk about official controls in domestic production, so they've been there absolutely since the first day we started on farms when we're talking about meat, in the slaughterhouse system, distribution and all that, and I think they're very rigorous or very high-quality. When we talk about imports of food products from third countries, we have outside the EU at every border crossing of our veterinary inspection that is also looking at these products. Whether we can be even more rigorous or introduce additional controls by some parameters, we can probably do so in the future. But there is no goods that are outside the EU and that enters the Croatian market that are not veterinary or sanitary if we talk about the work for which the sanitary inspection is responsible. When we talk about goods coming from the EU area that are not considered imports, it is trade between Member States and that Ministry of Agriculture with veterinary inspection for purposes means analysis, let's say randomly by the facilities that supply such goods. Our trade chains or distributors must also act by law and self-control. Some of them are doing it great, some of them I think are less quality, and we're also regulating it now. And what we have today means Malta not everyday appearance in public problems with food health, it's actually the work of veterinary inspections on the ground. And what we've changed and what we're definitely going to do in the future, so that the analyses we find and the things we find to be wrong, especially when we talk about food health failure, we publicly publish. I believe that it is a duty and a ministry, that Croatian citizens must know this, that it must be done by parliamentary representatives and that we must have quality and healthy food on the market. Is this how we prevent imports? Absolutely not, but we want to achieve that on the market we have equal quality Croatia and equal quality import food. Today we have a realistically very messy situation on the market, a lot of goods that are definitely of the same quality, and obviously the health benefits that should be and that's something that the Ministry of Agriculture will solve whether someone likes it or not. Therefore, these are the things that we and I and my associates are here for, and I believe the entire Croatian Parliament and we have to fight for that, and we will fight for it. When we talk about the law on unfair commercial practice, I thank my predecessor, Minister Romic, who started making the law. I am sure that the law will be in the parliamentary procedure by the end of this year, so there is no reason not to enter the procedure and not vote in this honorable House and thus help all those who are in the chain, manufacturers, buyers, processors and traders themselves to actually make fair and quality regulation of the market, from the unsettled market situation actually going a good part of the problem in the agriculture sector. When we talk about the wine sector, we also have large imports from third countries. The new rules on wine control will come into force next week, we made it, which, of course, will not prevent imports from third countries, but increase control to know what we are importing in that segment. For all the other things you've listed, I agree, here's some more time. 25 working days and we can't solve all things, but I really think that health care is essential and that Croatian citizens and the Croatian public must know what they buy and buy and whether it's the quality of the things we buy and what we eat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18113	I thank Minister Tolusic. Answer, MP Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18114	I'm satisfied with the answer, and knowing you, I'm sure that law will be on the benches by the end of this year. However, as my friend Boban said, it does not matter if I am satisfied, it is important what kind of legislation, what effect it will have on Croatian agriculture and the economy. Of course, it is much more important that the winemakers of northwestern Croatia who are devastated by the spring cold, and the increasing monster of phytoplasm that appears in the vineyards, will no longer suffer from the unfair competition of import wines from Montenegro and Macedonia, let's call it wine, in a rinfuze without stamps of five kunas with costs, with VAT as much as it costs us grapes. Various smugglers have hardly welcomed the cold situation in orchards, which has also done great damage in northwestern Croatia, and now we have fruit without taste and smell that we will find in our markets. I won't even talk about the system and the continuing destruction of Croatian livestock production by the import lobby. That's what I've talked about many times. On our shelves comes from the same foreign producer, for example, milk of five kunas in the same chain of commerce, the same owner, the same brand of milk. We've got two and a half kuna, five kunas out there, and the purchase price is three, so I'm asking you, can that liquid be called milk? This law will certainly respond to the advertising of this special salami of half a kilo of 4.99 where, by definition, the inspector should exclude such a sample and exclude the sample and perform the tests. I would be very interested to see the results, not only of the nutritionist but also of the qualitative, but also of the hygienic and medical correctness of such a food. And trust your colleagues and colleagues that during this crisis such foods entered Croatia and were being built into these cheap products.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18115	Thank you. The next representative to answer the question is MP Majda Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18116	I thank the President of the Parliament. Dear Croatian Prime Minister Mr Plenkovicu, respected ministers and ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. I refer my question to Mr Tolusic, Minister of Agriculture, and it is related to the Gorski Kotar where I come from. Let us remember that in the mandate of the SDP government in 2014 28 million kunas were taken from Gorski Kotar by legal changes, making life and work considerably difficult, and the progress of the region almost impossible. In addition, in the last three years, the Gorski kotar has hit two major disasters, the first year of 2014, in the form of icy rain, icy rain, which has caused damage of two billion kuna. After this profession, I think of the forest profession related to the Faculty of Forests and the Institute, they are constantly warning of the possibility that after a natural disaster an ecological disaster will follow, which happened by multiplying the smurk's foothill which is causing damage between 50 and 70 million kuna, which is why, in the 10th month of this year, an elemental disaster has been declared. The question arises, "What does the story make Croatian forests that need to be managed by public good?" Instead of protecting the management of Croatian forests headed by Mr. Pavelic, they share about a thousand and 100 cancellations to increase the company's profits, and provide millions of bonuses, thus protecting their own pocket, not the mountainous and Croatian forests. I therefore ask you, Mr. Minister, and as Minister, but also as the Assembly of the Croatian Forests, how do you feel about the level of functionality of the Croatian Forests, related to the management of the mountain forests, and what you will do to make such a thing never happen again and what you as Minister are doing regarding the rehabilitation of the footers in the Gorski Kotar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18117	I thank MPs Buric, Minister Tolusic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18118	Thank you to the honourable representative for asking. When we talk about the administration of the Croatian forests as you know, we reached an agreement with the administration of the Croatian forests and she submitted last week, she put her mandates at their disposal, i.e. the three-month notice period, of course without paying the bonuses and all those things they had in the contract, although these contracts speak more about who made them and who proposed them, which is the former Minister of Agriculture than about the administration itself. For me, it's immoral, probably illegal, but it'll determine some other services, and that's something I definitely won't sign. Today Croatian forests are a commercial society, chasing profits, they can understand in one segment but if that profit goes to the expense of the development of forests in Gorski Kotar, Slavonia or another part of Croatia, then it is definitely not good, especially when we know that the amount is obtained directly related to the bonus to be obtained by the management of Croatian forests. You don't have to be too smart to be able to add up two and two and what it's about. On the financial side of the Croatian forest, I say to the others well when we talk about the maintenance of the forest, the very way of managing it, we would like to talk about it all. Here I expect that soon we will have a public tender for the new administration of the Croatian Forests, that we will choose a new administration and that this new administration will hopefully act more responsibly towards those parts where actually the vast majority of the wood mass of Gorski Kotar, Slavonia, actually comes from the truth. When we talk about the underpass, it's actually an indicator of good or bad governance, whatever we call it, we knew what was going to happen after these icy rains and the elemental disasters that happened, and here comes the subjugation to its own, we reacted too slowly in all of this. Here we are only two weeks ago and we could have brought in a regulation two years ago where we solve problems and private forests that we don't know the owners about. So far, we've been cleaning the woods only that are state-owned and possibly part of the private ones, and then we clean a kilometer of forests that are state-owned, we don't clean the second kilometer, and there's a sub-inhabitor still living. So we're doing this right now, and hopefully that part will be, the command that we've brought to allow Croatian forests if they hire a cartilage, if they engage the workforce they need to enable this segment to be successfully solved when we talk about the problem of the underpassers. Otherwise, all acts adopted by the current administration of the Croatian Forests are subject to congregation control. Therefore, I believe that in these next three months or less if the new administration is appointed before, there will be no major problems when we talk about the functioning of the Croatian forests themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18119	I thank Minister Tolusic, MP Buric's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18120	Thank you for your response. I'm happy with the answer. And here I can only conclude that I truly believe in the active policy towards the Gorski Kotar, generally according to regional development that will lead to stimulating conditions for life and work, so that full support for Minister Tolusic and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18121	Thank you, Agent Buric. The next representative to answer the question, MP Robert Jankovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18122	Thank you, Mr. President. I ask the question to the President of the Croatian Government, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, and it is related to the completion of the construction of the 5C European Corridor in the part in which he passes through Croatia and the part that is not finished passes through my Baranja. In May 2015, the Croatian highways annulled public procurement, which should have built the highway from Osijek, from the Drava Bridge to the Beli Manastir, because it was estimated that there would be no construction of that section by the end of 2016, and this was the deadline for the withdrawal of funds from the EU operational programme, transport 2007-2013. a period which was the same at the end of 2016. The HAC administration then announced that the repeated procurement process will include the White Manastir section – the Hungarian border and will join the Hungarian side to draw up documentation for financing the entire stock, so the bridge Drava – Beli Manastir – Mohač to which Hungary has made the highway. Given that the mandate of this Parliament and this government as well as the EU's current budget expires in 2020, my question is what are our plans with this unfinished highway section through Baranja, i.e. according to the Hungarian border, which deadlines are foreseen and what is our political position towards it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18123	I'd like to thank Agent Jankovic. The Prime Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18124	Thank you, dear colleague Jankovics, for this issue that is important for Baranja, it is also important for Slavonia, it is also important for the total traffic connection between Osijek-Baranja County in a way that the 5C corridor connects with corridor 10, to connect Hungary, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and to strengthen the entire transport infrastructure. Part of the traffic connection is also part of the project Slavonia, which I was talking about earlier, I am familiar with plans from the Croatian Roads Ministry. I think the project that contains two shares is one from the border of Hungary to the White Manastir, the other from the White Manastir to the Drava Bridge. The total amount of funds is slightly higher than 600 million kuna. I think we'll provide funds for this project in part through the so-called. Connecting Europe Facilitity, so through European funds. It is the authority of this government to implement this project in a phase-based approach. We hope by the end of 2020 if possible. The project is important in order to make the existing highway passable, to become integrated and profitable. On this side, the competent ministry, the sea, transport and infrastructure will have exactly that direction as one of the priority transport infrastructure tasks at this stage. And therefore we want to include Baranja in the entire road system of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18125	Thank you, Prime Minister. Representative Jankovic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18126	Excuse me, we have full confidence further in the government you run. I just wanted to point out that apart from Baranjci and Baranja, of course, since the completion of that part of the highway and the entire area of Slavonia through which the highway passes, it is now gaining not only on increased traffic, but those environments from which people are dramatically evicted, which are given an opportunity for new jobs, as well as business zones that are in most parts of Baranja and Slavonia planned along that future route of highway, so in my Belo Manastir are a mile away, two of those future highways would have great expectations of it. Please keep it a priority of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18127	Thank you, Agent Jankovic. The next representative to answer the question is MP Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18128	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. My question is for the Croatian Defence Minister and members of their families to Mr. Tommy Bear. Mr. Minister, since the work of working groups as we have been informed has been completed and has been brought to an end on the draft of a single law on the rights of Croatian defenders, my question is as follows. When this unique bill of law will see the light of day, when public debate will begin, and when it will be held at the Government and in the Croatian Parliament, and if it foresees any form of protection of Croatian defenders from these latest persecutions of aggressor and defeated structures.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18129	I thank Representative Djakic. Minister Bear's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18130	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative Djakic. The text of the proposal for a single law on Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War is finished. The process is currently in sync with other ministries. The aim of the law is to ensure the full protection of the integrity of the Homeland War, the unification of all the status and material rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families, ensuring the single policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia towards Croatian defenders and victims in order to ensure comprehensive care and the achievement of all the material and status rights of Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War. After harmonising with the Ministry of Resort in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the proposal is also to refer the proposal to the text of the law in December 2016 for a public debate and then to a regular parliamentary procedure. We stress that this content of the single law combines all issues relevant to Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War, which have so far been distributed into a number of other legal solutions and other ministries.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18131	I thank Minister Bear. Representative Djakic's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18132	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, thank you for the comprehensive response you gave me as well as the Croatian defenders as a whole. I believe that in the best faith you will adopt a bill which will be adopted unanimously by this Croatian House, which will stop politicising around Croatian defenders and which I hope and believe, with the support of fellow defenders both on the left and left, as well as the environment and all together, will ultimately bring the Constitutional Law on the rights of Croatian defenders to ensure that they are lasting value protected and sovereign in their rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18133	Thank you, Representative Djakic. Representative Boris Miletic also answered the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18134	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government, the Honorable Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Many times we could hear one by myself a good idea of how to restore credibility, i.e. trust in Croatian politics, and I believe that every MP should support it. Unfortunately, in this House, we often hear party bickering, but there are examples, it is rare when this House unanimously adopts whether the law, whether a strategic document that speaks of reaching general consensus on a question. This is exactly how the Croatian Parliament adopted the Tourism Development Strategy from 2013 to 2020 and I believe that it was unanimously adopted for the reason that the creation of the strategy itself went by bottling up, and... There is respect for the profession, professional associations to produce a quality document on the branch of the economy, which accounts for 18% of Croatia's GDP. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yes, I come from Istria that generates one third of the total Croatian tourism and I think that after three years, the results of increasing investment in tourism, increasing the number of employees and increasing revenues from tourism are visible. I think that's good. And I think it's a good thing that this strategy was adopted unanimously and carried out. People are in charge of believing this House's decision and my question is: What is the use of bringing strategic documents in this highest House of Representatives when we see that we have not reached even halfway through the implementation of this strategy and that the proposal for new laws goes in diametrically opposite from what the strategy provides, I am clearly talking about increasing value added tax in tourism. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18135	Thank you, Agent Miletic. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18136	Thank you, dear fellow Miletic. First of all, I congratulate you as a representative from Istria and other representatives from Istria who certainly contributed to Istria being the champion of Croatian tourism and contributing to the overall economic growth of the Republic of Croatia. You of course refer to one segment of full tax reform presented by the government at the 1st session of your government, which was also here in the first reading in the Croatian Parliament, which contains a series of our deep convictions, quality solutions that will contribute to the achievement of three fundamental goals. The first is, of course, a higher income for most of our citizens, the second is the discharge of our entrepreneurs, and the third is the sustainability of our public finances and the state budget, which is why we look at it as a whole in the package. Of course, this segment you refer to relates partly to tourism, and it cannot be said that this tax reform against Croatian tourism, especially when it is taken into account that the rate of existing VAT and accommodation capacity, half boards, pensions, camps, nautical tourism remained at 13%. The part of the VAT increase to 25% when it comes to catering should be seen together with other aspects of this tax reform and when it comes to income tax cuts, profit taxes, representation costs, reduction of the entire set of imputions relating to the total price formation in the catering sector. On the other hand, comparative analyses made in the ministry show that Croatia is still highly competitive when it comes to tourism compared to other Mediterranean markets and we believe that the whole of this reform will contribute to Croatian tourism, not to it. This would by no means be the intensity of our government, nor of the Minister of Finance, nor of the Minister of Tourism, nor of me, to which a large part of the family if you want to be related to tourism, and I can say that we have the right sensitivity to do so. I agree that the strategy for tourism development was important, it was important, it contributed to development, it contributed partly to these results and independently of global climate, regardless of the security issues in the Mediterranean, we will do everything together with all the relevant actors, I mean both the ministry and the tourist community to prepare another quality season that will have figures, I hope better than this year. And the conversation with all partners in the catering industry in tourism will be a way of working in the future, and therefore I would like to implement this reform as a single package aimed at a passing, simplified, more efficient tax system that will contribute to the stability of Croatian public finances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18137	I thank the Prime Minister. Representative Miletic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18138	I think time will show who was right. We have proposed just approaching the tax burden of tourism towards us close to competitive destinations. If you look at the countries in the Mediterranean Dal Italy, gave Spain, France, Portugal we will see that the rate of tourism taxation around 10% no more than that, today's rate in Croatia is 13%. By proposing to increase VAT in catering to 25% we will cut the VAT rate to about 17% in tourism and I believe that this will mean, under one reduction in quality, under two layoffs of workers, under three we will not achieve the goal of extending the tourist season. I would be the happiest if you were wrong, if you were absolutely right, but tourist employees warn me of that. We will only have two large hotel houses to invest in tourism for over a billion and a half kuna next year, this will certainly help reduce the intensity of investment in tourism. Furthermore, tourism and hospitality have an extremely large multiplier effect on our economy. When we talk about tourism and catering, then we must also think about our food producers, our fishermen, our wine producers, the olive oil that our products through tourism can place directly by exporting to our country. I said in the introduction credibility and return of confidence in politics, I can tell you that Croatian hosts feel deceived because they believed in this House, a strategy that was unanimously adopted. Some have committed themselves to invest in their facilities, and I think for a full reason I can express my disdain because we will hardly regain our confidence in politics if we go through strategic documents that have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18139	Thank you, Agent Miletic. Representative Ivan Anusic answered the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18140	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable President of the Parliament, respected ministers and ministers and, of course, respected Croatian Prime Minister. My question is addressed to you, and I want to tell you which interests all of Slavonia and concerns the project Slavonia, Slavonia and Baranja, Western Srijem, Podravina, which is how the tax law, i.e. The tax reform presented by Minister Maric in this House has a concrete impact on the functioning of Slavonia, which will help segments of Slavonia and Baranja, West Srijem, Podravina and the entire Eastern Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18141	Thank you, Agent Anusic. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18142	Thank you, dear colleague Anusic. We have already discussed the Slavonia project in detail on several issues during this morning's debate, and this was also an important part of your discussions during the first reading of the total tax laws. So, we also said in the campaign that we want to stimulate Croatian farmers and therefore the rate of VAT is 13% and on seedlings, and on seeds, and on fertilisers, on pesticides and on other agrochemical products, and food for animals that is also very important. The contributions they make have been reduced, meaning farmers, especially those engaged in forestry. In this respect, pensioners who carry out their own activity from agriculture and forestry, and on this basis pay income tax in the flat-rate amount, do not pay contributions on that basis. The benefits are similar both in income tax and in profit tax. And there's this particular argument that we've been stressing that this reform is complete, that it's being watched as the government stimulates individual branches with its own measures that we see as a great potential. We know that a huge number of jobs have just disappeared in agriculture since 2011, and that is the area in which we see in the coming years of this government's mandate with the goal of achieving 68% employment in the Republic of Croatia to create new jobs. And this particular tax relief that I just mentioned goes that way. And that is why I believe that through the Slavonia project that has its segments and regional development, rural development, increasing transport infrastructure, demographic policy, concrete support for farmers in terms of costs and, of course, with everything that goes as an incentive, as subsidies from either the state budget, whether from this phase of inclusion in the EU's common agricultural policy, will create a package that will allow our people in Slavonia to live in a more quality way than is the case today. I therefore thank you for your interest as a representative of the Osijek-Baranja County to strongly articulate and advocate the interests of the region from which you come, which I repeat once again the priorities of all ministers in this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18143	I thank the Prime Minister. Representative Anusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18144	Thank you, Mr. President. I am pleased with the answer, of course, and I want to say that in this short time in these months, just over a month as the government is functioning, we finally see concrete moves that concern not only Slavonia but all of Croatia. I am glad that we all understand that there has come awareness and that the moves have begun to be made concretely because Slavonia is important to restore both economically and demographically not only because of Slavonia itself but because of the safety aspect of Croatia as a whole, we are at risk of ours who in this month, for a month and a half we have witnessed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18145	Thank you. The next representative to answer the question is Romana Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18146	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. I will refer my question to the Prime Minister. Mr Plenkovic, in modern and advanced societies, we would like to be both science and education are key drivers of development. These are strategic priorities which he particularly cares about, unfortunately we cannot say that this is also true for Croatia. I don't know if you're aware of that, but the state of science and education seems like it's never been worse. We invest twice as much in research and science as in EU member states. The Croatian Foundation for Science has one 70 million kuna. And do you know how much Slovenia stands out for its national foundation for science? 800 million kuna. So it's even 10 times more than Croatia. Do I need such a bad position as scientists and scientific institutions to add the worse teacher and teacher in schools? I'd like to ask you, Mr. Plenkovic, where did the curricular reform go, what happened to her? Is it possible that you gave up the project of curricular reform that even the European Commission recognized a few days ago as key and necessary for the development of the education system? How do we think with this system of education, education without a thorough reform to be competitive in anything? How are we supposed to keep the young people we educate here for free and then send them out? So my question is very simple and what does it say, what do you intend to do for these resistors? Are science and education of strategic priority for you or not? And if they are what you intend to do? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18147	Thank you. The Prime Minister, Honorable Andrej Plenkovic, will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18148	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Academy Director Reiner, thank you very much, dear colleague Jerkovic. You are also an advocate and politician and a respected member of the academic community and professor, and of course you have a special affinity and interest in topics related to science and education. I think it is quite clear from the programme of the Republic of Croatia that science and education will be our key priority. The reason is simple, he said would be consensual, healthy reasonable, he refers to our future, to our children, to our competitiveness, to our ability to adapt to global trends, to European trends, to build young people who will be able to market work, to present their skills and their skills that they have acquired through the education cycle in the Republic of Croatia. I want to say that the reform of the education system, the curricula or the curricular reform, whatever anyone wants to call it, of course it didn't stop. A week ago, the public consultation process was completed, 712 indications arrived, 13 per document, approximately according to the data available to me. This means that this process is still under way that this government wants us to reach a strategic consensus on our future when it comes to education. The process didn't begin yesterday or the day before yesterday, started more than 10 years ago, and this has been contributed in different ways by both governments and various ministers. There is no dilemma for us that reaching a consensus on reform in an inclusive pluralistic way will be a fundamental goal. And here I expect also a contribution from you fellow opposition and all those who in our society in this process can give pain. Therefore, one of the key tasks for our Minister of Science, education to contribute to the best possible way of achieving these goals, to build young people who, through our primary and secondary and secondary education, will acquire broad knowledge, general culture, know very well who they are and what they are in the identity sense, know Croatian language, Croatian history, but also be ready for further specialisation when they come to the stage of higher education, be willing to critically consider, have both analytical and synthetic abilities and know after they come to the market of all these skills, put all these skills for the benefit above all for themselves and for their family, for society, for Croatia as a whole. This must be one consensual approach, and I expect the expert working groups to be formed within the ministry to include all those who can contribute to it. We are open to this, we will not be selective or exclusive, we believe that many actors in Croatian society can make a quality contribution to this process and I expect, of course, from the Croatian Parliament, the competent Committee on Education, Culture and Science and all of you representatives who have special knowledge and references in this. And the Minister of Science and Education has a permanent task that his door is open to dialogue and cooperation with you and of course with all members of the academic community, with all our teachers, with all our teachers who are important for the development of Croatian children and for the Croatian future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18149	Thank you. Dear representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18150	Thank you very much. Mr. Plenkovic, you knock on the open door. I must admit that your words sound very nice, but how much weight they weigh we'll see very soon when you're in the House representing the budget for next year and when we see how much you've planned to single out for science and education. I'm sorry you missed one good chance already. And that good opportunity was called tax reform. So you had the opportunity to propose with your colleagues as part of tax reform and tax relief for those who would invest in science and education and thus stimulate them to do so. You know, I find it difficult to take away the impression that science and education are very often a priority of government but only at a declarative level. In the name of the system I've been working in for a very long time and I know very well in the end I'll just tell you that I hope it won't be the case with your government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18151	Thank you. The next question will be asked by distinguished MP Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18152	Thank you, Vice President. I refer my question to Minister Butkovic and he referred to the construction of a fast road from Zagreb via Vrbovac to Bjelovar and Virovitica. Namely, it's a fast road built to Gradec, better say to Cugovec. After that, construction continued in the direction of Bjelovar and that direction towards Koprivnica. Today we have a stock built to the Cross. It was also done on the road towards Bjelovar, but the arrival of the government of Mr Milanović stopped these works towards Bjelovar and at this point, according to the Croatian Roads, the value of the stock from Gradec and to Bjelovar is about 520 million kuna. The stock was spent, i.e. already around 300 million and the buildings that were built and the road itself on it are currently growing grass and our buildings are falling apart. The recent visit of our President Bjelovar was just spoken by the Prime Minister, he spoke about the importance of the traffic connection between Bjelovar and the rest of Croatia and Zagreb. So I ask the honourable ministers what your ministry is planning and what it is doing to work towards Bjelovar, i.e. on the section from Gradec to Bjelovar, as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18153	Thank you. The Honorable Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18154	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives. First of all, I would like to thank the representative for this matter. Your question about the construction of the road is on the corridor of the state road D2 which includes a sub-level fast road with the work of the srijem transversal and sub-ravska Y. As you mentioned in your question we opened this part of 12 kilometers towards Gradec in July, the Prama Križevci means the Gradec-Križevci section and the continuation of the construction of this strategic infrastructure project is at the stage of the project documentation of certain studies that should be done to discuss the financing and continuation of the construction of that entire corridor. As regards the construction programme for the next four years, Croatia's roads will produce such a document in 2017 and will definitely share the entire construction of the fast road towards Virovitica, i.e. Teresa's field where the share ends will be in the strategic document. New projects for the Farkaševac-Bjelovar stock are being updated at the moment because it came from the decision of the Minister of Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure to the re-tegorisation, which was supposed to be the highway from Vrbovac towards Bjelovar, according to Virovitica and the Terezija field, there was a re-tegorisation in the state fast road. This means that it will have all the elements of the highway, it will not be in the billing system, but it will be excluded from that stop tape, so it should be done to create or newize the projects. The dynamics of building the entire stock and subdivision depend on the financial possibilities of Croatian roads. At this point what is realistic is that in 2017 you should make these, as many documentation as possible for these sub-divisions. It means studying and completing project documentation and moving towards European funds so that funding can be rounded up. Of course, we are expected to have better times and economic growth, so I believe that both the state budget and the budget of the Croatian Roads will be included in the financing of these shares. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18155	Thank you. Dear Representative Miro Totgergeli, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18156	Thank you for your response, Mr. Minister. Well, of course, all of the Bjelovarcans and Bjelovarska-Bilogorska and other counties in that part would have preferred that you said that tomorrow we are already starting construction. However, this approach of yours and the seriousness with which you have come to this problem gives us the right to hope that we will very soon restart the works especially on this section where a part of the funds has already been invested. I will only mention that it is not only the traffic importance of connecting Bjelovar and the county with the rest of Croatia. Therefore, the economic perspective of transport is also being opened. Many of the zones made in our county are practically waiting for investors who will surely arrive much sooner and faster if Bjelovar and Bjelovar-Bilogor County is connected to Zagreb and the rest of Croatia. And thus, when economic activity is increasing, the number of jobs is increasing, and so we keep young people in those parts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18157	Thank you. The next question will be asked by the distinguished representative Martha Luc-Polanc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18158	Thank you. My question concerns the Minister of Environmental and Energy Protection, Mr. Dobrovic. Minister Dobrovic, what you are doing to address the problem of air pollution in Slavonski Brod and its surroundings, which is the result of the work of the oil refinery in the Bosnian Ship. In fact, you were Minister in the previous government and, as such, you were in Slavonski Brod on 14 June 2016 when the thematic session of the Environment Protection Committee was held and you stated that the fact that an agreement between the Republic of BiH on environmental cooperation makes it easier for you to address this problem. Furthermore, it is the circumstance that Bosnia and Herzegovina is in the process of EU accession and that you also have other legal methods that you will use to address this problem. Until today, nothing has moved from a dead end. And I'm still asking you if given the circumstance that the refinery is Russian-owned, whether the fact that our prime minister, along with the delegation, was staying in Ukraine a few days ago, where he offered the possibility, where he offered assistance in the peaceful reintegration of Ukrainian territory and which was very negatively accepted in Russia. Whether this circumstance will affect the possibility of resolving this issue and directly harm the citizens of Slavonski Brod. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18159	Thank you. The Honorable Minister Slaven Dobrović will respond, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18160	Thank you very much for asking. It is true, therefore, that the Republic of Croatia has signed an Agreement on cooperation in the field of environmental protection with the Federation of BiH and it certainly opens up opportunities for these issues to be resolved as well as many others that we have with our neighbour BiH. Slavonski Brod problem is, of course, known there, the problem is the dominant pollution that arrives in the entire area from the refinery of the Ship. It poses a real threat to the quality of life for citizens of Brod and the entire region, as well as for citizens, so in neighbouring Brod, so in neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina. We are, of course, aware of the gravity of this situation, and what I want to say here is that this problem is being discussed, so at government level, that there are practically solutions because we, in the context of the work of an interstate commission that exists on the problem of pollution from the ship refinery, are not satisfied. So what stands as one firm attitude is the necessity of modernization and opposition to any delay in modernization. Because, as is likely to be known, the environmental license expires very quickly and the owner of the refinery or manager was obliged to modernise the refinery in order to assume that the permit would be achieved and continued. So we insist, so on our part not to allow such a situation. However, I must say that, as for the ministry, this goes beyond the ministry's intelligence, that it is indeed a state issue, therefore, an issue of international relations. But here's what he's worried about right now at a higher instance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18161	Thank you. Dear Representative Martha Luc-Polanc, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18162	Your Honor, I am not pleased with your answer. I have not seen any concrete measures from him, nor have I found out what you're going to do in a specific case. You did not specify whether this international situation, or a visit to Ukraine, would make the situation worse. And I just have to tell you that only this year have our measurement stations in Slavonski Brod measured that the overrun of the sulfur was 222 times, and according to the applicable regulations is allowed 24 times. So, the situation is very bad. And on Thursday, a big protest is being organised in Slavonski Brod. I call on you ministers to come, to address the citizens, to answer those questions they are interested in, and especially because this citizens' initiative has also called for possible civil disobedience, which will certainly be your responsibility if you do nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18163	Thank you. The next question will be asked by distinguished representative Predrag Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18164	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I refer my question to the Prime Minister, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic. An old wisdom says that in life we can choose everything or almost anything, but family members cannot choose and there are rules for all but exceptions as well in this case. In fact, we must return to last week which was very important for Croatia, for Vukovar, and it was also very important for HDZ as it appeared. So you were in Vukovar last week, you held a cabinet session, it was very commendable, and you made some promises that I believe will come true and then you walked 18th through Vukovar. Everything was fine, you promised to protect the defenders, the town of a special pite, which would be people's, you shed a tear for Vukovar, and I welcome that. However, what remains unmarked last week is that two days before that meeting of the Government, as you like to say or how you express yourself, you have also received into a large family a party that is the next and legal heir of the Seselj Radical Party, so the Serbian People's Party led by Seselj were once a werewolf, Tomo Nikolic is a man whose role is in Antino, which is not far from Vukovar, yet still unremarked and unresolved in Croatia, then a volunteer of the Serb Vukic and the Duke according to Mr. Seselj, so the man who made certain statements in Glina again in Croatia, and not to speak those words he said in Sarajevo concerning the Bosniaks and the ratio of 1:100. So, my question, Mr. President, what is the real HDZ? If it wasn't for you that someone said it was a former minister, if it were one of your representatives, I wouldn't ask this question, but here I'm going to ask you because I'm very interested in that answer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18165	Thank you. The Honorable Prime Minister, Mr Plenkovic, will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18166	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Matic, thank you for asking. First, I will refer to the first minute of your presentation relating to the government's meeting in Vukovar and the decision to set up a commission to make Vukovar a special pitet. I think you, as a Croatian defender, are in agreement with this initiative, and I think we need to approach Vukovar in particular with regard to the scales of destruction, the number of deaths, to the number of victims still large numbers of missing persons. And the fact that this government, 25 years after the Vukovar occupation, has access to it in a way that goes both completely and financially and legally, I think is a clear and important message. I am also saying this because of the dignity of the Homeland War and because of Croatian defenders, the dead, the missing, the victims of their families, all those who are forever marked by war aggression in Croatia. The fact that the time of 2016 is now that the European People's Party is the largest political force in Europe, that the Serbian Progressive Party, headed by the current Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic, since 2013, has submitted a request for status within the EPP, has been deliberately speaking to the SNS, and has decided on this for the past few years in a very detailed, precise process within which the special delegations of the European People's Party have gone to Belgrade, discussed their programme, their statutes, their actions and their objectives, was part of that delegation as well as the international secretary of HDZ counterpart Kovac. The HDZ's position on SNS' associated membership under the EPP is very clear. We were restrained in the 5th month when a decision was taken at the level of the working group dealing with the reception of new or members or associated members, and we reiterated that at the meeting of the political assembly of the European People's Party on 15 November. We were the only political force of the entire European People's Party who had such an attitude and we clearly articulated it. This was done by our representative in the European Parliament, Mrs Dubravka Suica, on the basis of instructions from me as party president, where we said that Serbia in the EU accession process in the framework of the negotiations, through Chapter 23, must resolve a number of residual issues from the time of Serbia's large-scale Milosevic's aggression on the Republic of Serbia, and this concerns both the question of the missing and the issue of hybrid law on so-called. A regional jurisdiction for war crimes, a law that has taken over the catalogue of the works of the Hague court statutes, but a law that does not exist anywhere else in comparative international criminal law and which leads to the legal uncertainty of our citizens, which we will clearly oppose. We also pointed out that we must address all bilateral issues relating to both the border and the rights and protection of minorities, of course it includes, above all, the rights of Croats in Serbia who do not have a guaranteed fixed three MPs in the Croatian Parliament, such as that of the Serb minority in Croatia. And also what we have made clear is that the status under the accession negotiations follows the status of candidates within the European People's Party. And we are restrained because we want to be a government that will solve problems with Serbia, which will have a dialogue open, clear, principled, firmly on the Croatian national line, but a dialogue that we can realise better with this attitude than that we were against. So our attitude was clear and principled. Serbia has a long way to the EU and SNS will also have a long way to full membership, and Croatia will be asked in principle to solve all open issues in the process.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18167	Thank you. Dear Representative Predrag Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18168	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. President, of course I'm satisfied with your answer because you haven't said as you have always said, you haven't said anything that isn't true, or that would be incorrect. What I want to do here again in front of the High House, so it's not my place to teach you, but I have to find out, so you could be against it, nothing would change, but the SNS would still be admitted to the regiment, but in September, you managed to borrow that delay from that reception because I suppose it would cost you more in the elections than our handful of misery cost. But here's to the end, maybe you didn't tell some of our distinguished colleagues like Djakic, Culej, Brkić here's the Bear, and even here's General Krstičević, they've been picked up by Seselj, Vukic and Nikolic from the other day, and I can only say the wave.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18169	The next question will be asked by a respected representative, Vesna Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18170	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, my respect for the President of the Croatian Government, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic and all present ministers and ministers. My question, in part, coincides with a question already asked earlier by a respected colleague, Jerkovic, Mr Plenkovic, and I refer my question to the Minister of Science and Education, Prof. Dr. Pavi Barisic, and I therefore want to get a concrete answer regarding the continuation of the curricula reform. I will remind you once again that the HDZ and the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme for the period of office from 2016 to 2020 provides for the implementation of a reform of education in line with best European practice, which, together with the promotion of lifelong education, will allow for the modernisation of the Croatian knowledge-based economy. As one of the specific objectives of the overall reform of education, it is precisely the continuation of the curricula reform, with a broad social agreement through the inclusion and respect of different approaches and different opinions, in order to achieve reform processes based on competent approach to learning and competent approach to education. In this respect, a public consultation was held between 16 June and 15 November this year with the interested public on the proposed curricula documents, preceding and having been held a expert debate. So, Mr. Minister, since the deadline after which the public consultation with the interested public on the proposed curricula documents was completed on 15 November, please answer me what will be the further sequence of curricula reform as part of the overall reform of education and explain what will be the next concrete steps and the next concrete activities that will be related to the continuation of its implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18171	Thank you. The Honorable Minister, Professor, will respond. Paul Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18172	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Government, distinguished esteemed representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much, Mrs. Bedekovic, for asking. As you said a week ago, it concluded public consultation with curriculous documents, and I would also remind you that two weeks before that, the Committee for the Report on the Promotion of Education Reform also submitted its report and, as the Prime Minister has already mentioned here in the indications, has arrived numerous indications of documents, and the largest number of these indications relate to the proposals of the national curricula for gymnasium education and then to the proposal for a framework of national curricula. In particular, after the public consultation was carried out, a thorough analysis of the evidence received and the completion of the documents and, in accordance with the indications, the preparation of the consultation report shall be carried out. The government of the Republic of Croatia has come from the view that education is one of the wheels of human potential development in the Republic of Croatia, as well as a public good that has an unequivocal national priority. Therefore, the improvement of the education and education system remains a matter of strategic importance both for the development of society and for the development of the economy and for the personal development of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I would particularly point out here that there is a full curricula reform but it is only one of the eight main objectives of the strategy adopted by this High Parliament and these objectives relate to early pre-school, primary and secondary education and education but should be noted that the implementation of this reform is related to raising the quality of work and social reputation of teachers. Also by improving the development potential of educational institutions, by developing a complete system of support for students who should be at the heart of this education process, also by equating and raising pedagogical standards and by introducing quality systems. What I would particularly like to point out is that the debate in the curriculous reform so far has shown great public interest in changes in the Croatian education system so that there is, we can say, a certain general social consensus and this shows the results of this expert public debate. So before that, we had over 3,000 contributions in a professional debate and now 712 contributions showing a high degree of awareness and involvement of the profession around curriculous reform. And in this regard, I am specifically finishing up. The Ministry of Science will now develop a new action plan and then seek to complete a public debate, coordinate curricula documents with the public's indications, then prepare for the implementation of curricula in primary and secondary schools, prepare training for educational and curricula staff and prepare a project to support the implementation of full cultural reform within the framework of the operational programme of the European Social Fund and end up harmonising the legislative framework and curricula reforms why we will pray, of course, this High House Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18173	Thank you. Obviously, you've satisfied distinguished MPs with your answer. And the next question will be asked by distinguished representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18174	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Hello to the entire government headed by the prime minister. Mr. Plenkovic, in recent days, we have seen that against the mayor of Zadar, Bozidar Kalmeta, each week the indictment is one. There is a USKOK recently confirmed by the indictment that charges him with his team from the Ministry of Transport, Croatian Roads and Croatian highways, then to HDZ, to himself and to his colleagues, 15 million kuna and 850 thousand euros intended for the maintenance and construction of roads in Croatia. I have spoken of this as a representative in this assembly on many occasions, pointing to double tunnel painting, which is why a kilometer of highway in construction has grown in enormous amount. I've asked your predecessors, Prime Minister Sanader, Kosor, Karamark as well as Calmeti himself, but I've never received any concrete answer. Mr. Plenkovic, these are very difficult accusations. Because of these accusations in the state of high political culture, each defendant would have to leave all his political duties immediately. Given Mr Plenkovic that your slogan is "Reliable", that you are showing a desire to make a distance from both Sanader and Karamark and FIMI MEDIA, and from the HDZ of that time, which is to remind us all still on the defendant's bench for the robbery of the state budget. I wonder if you called your highly positioned HDZ member and asked him to resign as mayor of the city of Zadar and head of the county HDZ. And did you have a chance to look at the production masterpiece of producer Bozidar Kalmeta, the traffic renaissance of Croatia that was rewarded by the USKOK indictment of withdrawing money from FIMI MEDIA and will likely be nominated for the Oscar for corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18175	Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18176	Thank you very much, colleague Jovanovic. I'm just going to briefly refer to the last sentence of my esteemed colleague Matic, who said we were collected and said wave. If you hadn't said that, I wouldn't have reacted, but I will. You remember that at a time when, by order of the Serbian prosecutor's office in BIH, you were arrested by Tihomir Purda as SDP in the same family as Tadic's democratic party. And then you were as much as I remember President Josipovic's advisor, and then you can say that you have your own brothers in this context. We have the largest European political family and SNS status associated and I have said and I stand behind the stance we had in terms of restraint because I think it is politically pragmatic and correct for resolving open issues between Croatia and Serbia in the future. And that's why he's the only one. When it comes to this second issue and to Mr. Bozidar Kalmeti, as you know, he is neither a representative in the Croatian Parliament, nor a member of the HDZ presidency, he is the mayor of Zadar elected 3.5 years ago and is head of the county board. HDZ is a party that operates on the principle of subsidiarity. I expect that in these new circumstances and after Monday and this few days ago when the indictment was confirmed first on this topic, the County Committee will then inform the HDZ presidency and we will hold this regular session in early December and then we will see how we make decisions. What is understood and here you can see from the media inscriptions today is that it is not convenient for Mr. Kalmeta to be a candidate again in the elections that will be held in May 2017. And finally, I would like to say that there is a presumption of innocence in the Croatian legal system, there have been other cases in the past when great pressure has been made on officials, and when the legal process is over some of them have ended with liberating verdicts. I don't want to do anything in advance or put him in a position that would be unfavourable compared to what he's being charged with right now. Therefore, the attitude is clear and principled. The County Committee, then the presidency and finally the conversation with Mr. Calmett. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18177	Thank you. Dear Representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18178	Well, Your Honor, Mr. Plenkovic, I am not pleased with your response because it does not indicate whether Kalmeta has your support to continue to run the HDZ county organisation, to run for mayor of Zadar. And I have to remind you that he's not the only example, so you're not the one who makes spring. These days, the indictment has also been brought against the head of the municipality of Lopar, Mr. Allen Andreskic. So it's a behavioral mode that's obviously going on. And I would ask you, Mr. Plenkovic, who represents the new face of HDZ, how is it that for you and your new HDZ Institute of Presumption of Innocentity, which is being used as you say to Mr. Calmet and which USKOK has been investigating for 3 years has not been valid for your predecessor Tomislav Karamark. If that were the case in his case, you wouldn't be the president of the HDZ today. So double criteria. I will remind you of what your now hated predecessor said about Mr. Calmett, and I will quote, he said that Mr. Calmeta would have to resign at all duties in HDZ, to all political functions if USKOK brought charges against him. I quote, "I never judge," says Tomislav Karamarko, "before the courts bring justice". But if Kalmeta is indicted by Kalmeta, he is expected to resign to all political functions and functions in the party. That's what the old HDZ face of Karamarko said, and you're showing the HDZ as a new face in fact, and we have an example now that Andreškić's story about the new HDZ face is just another fairy tale that shows for naive citizens that we really have a Croatian example of Orvell's animal farm in Croatia. They are all equal, but HDZ are a little bit more equal to what we see and thanks to HDZ donors for removing the taxpayers and returning a smile to the face of various Croatian bosses.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18179	Thank you. The next question will be asked by Honorable Representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18180	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My question is to honor the Minister of Regional Development, Mrs. Gralac. To be familiar with the development index adopted by the Government, the SDP Government in 2014 and which is unfair towards the extremes of the Dalmatian Zagorje, Like, Gorski Kotar and other areas that are more often mentioned in Slavonia and Zagorje. Literally burned ground. Those ends are dying. It has been considered to be specific groups, cities with an index of development. The minister who is now the minister of agriculture at the beginning of last government said there would be a new development index to be implemented in 2018. As a thunderstorm from the clear sky a few days ago, my fellow parliamentary representative said that in 2018 there was no new development index for those areas that were forgotten, those areas that were unfairly declared rich as my Dalmatian Zagora and the highest price paid by my city of Sinj, Vrgorac, and other areas. And if this is the trend of unbelief, then I, like most of them, have no perspective and we have deceived those people. We have some promises about compensation measures from the finance minister, but this isn't going to work. These parts do not have free textbooks, as Zagreb has, which is centralized. These parts don't even have free transportation, these parts don't have water supply, the whole villages are falling apart. Madam Minister, what will happen with the Index of Development and how these end up being implemented in the Croatian system both legal and economic. Because this is the way the former governments behave worse than during the Turkish Empire, the consequences are worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18181	Thank you. The Honorable Minister Gabriela Žalac will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18182	Vice-President, Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Honorable Minister, Ministers, Honorable Representatives, Mr Bulj. Here, let me try to answer your question in short lines. What you were saying at the outset is that it's unworthy. I must tell you that my predecessor, my colleague Tolusic, who is now the Minister of Agriculture has announced, so a new development index to be implemented since 2018. So what was said is that it may be implemented since 2017. However, this is not possible because we are in the context of tax reform and everything relating to units of local, regional self-government in agreement with the Ministry of Finance, that we are going to make and change the full legislation on regional development in the first six months of 2017, and with the full application of the development index we are starting from 1.1.2018. And I would call it some continuation of tax reform in the form of a law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government where it will come out to meet everything we have been saying and doing for years. But, uh, let me come back then a little bit in a year you said 2014 so here's what we can say. As far as the legislation on regional development is concerned, we return unfortunately in 2010 not only to the development index but also to the Regional Development Act and all that we need in order to manage development at the country level on time and on time. And for this reason, I also announce to you the amendments to the Law on Regional Development and the new Law on Supported Areas that we will do because the Working Group was already established long ago in 2011 and after that, nothing was done after the Government. The development index is also a sublegal act of the Regional Development Act and we will work intensively on it with units of local and regional self-government and counties. Since you mentioned your Zagora, I agree with you that the development index has been damaged primarily for the ones who are lagging behind in development, as well as for my Slavonia and other areas. And that's what we're going to do, that's something I'm going to insist on, and something that we're going to fix anyway. What I also want to tell you is that we are testing a model of the development index that, with economic indicators, has now also stopped the part that refers to demographic indicators. We believe that this is very important precisely because of emigration and in order to prevent the development index from measuring in some ways other ways what would be competent to happen in areas that are lagging behind in development. For this reason, it would be best if we could measure GDP per capita in a particular municipality and city, however, this is currently impossible. But here, we're going through this demographic model and we're going to fix some things as well. And let me just finally tell you that my colleague, Šipic, was here the other day with me a representative about the exact area, so the Dalmatian Burns, and he begged me as a minister, so all the municipalities and cities, and as far as your projects are concerned, that we are truly credible in that part and that we see what and how we can go on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18183	Thank you. Dear Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18184	Dear Minister, this is a cry, cry for the people I represent literally from the dying Dalmatian Zagora, Lika and other areas. Come to Vrgorac, come to Sinj and see the villages that are moving, which are gone, no more of these hearths. The only thing we serve as an exploiting field of the centralized state is all kinds of questions. Of course, I am glad that there has been a political debate in Istria and that it is developing, I am glad other parts, I am glad that Zagreb is developing, but this end is dying down there. We have a national disaster. We have to include here, enough of the Minister of Transport's promises, you'll have fast roads you and the predecessor, you'll have literally connected highways. Politically, even highways were built, in certain environments where they were strong, not strategically changing things. This is my cry. Even in sports, so those kids can't deal with sports, they don't have the opportunity because they've been building some kind of halls that the state will pay for years, which is a waste of centuries for sport, the development of sports. Young people don't have kindergartens. The only thing we have left where you come from is my Blue Alka, all the political elites where they promise before the election, and that's not enough. We're left with Hajduk, and the sport doesn't respect the law, but Hajduk will live forever, and you have to fulfill this because of these areas, and this is the cry of that people, not mine, but that people. And I'm saying this now from the position of the majority to be credible these ends must survive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18185	Thank you. The next question will be asked by distinguished representative Kresho Beljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18186	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. I haven't made a deal with my colleague Bull, but I have a similar question on the trail of what he said. I would ask the Honorable Prime Minister, and then all the ministers, do you have any information on how many residents have moved out of Croatia in the last year? Are there any data available to you on the structure of these new Croatian emigrants, above all on the age and the educational ones? Do you intend to do something to stop not only the eviction that has recently taken dramatic proportions, and are you aware that this trend will be continued soon so that the age structure of the population will be irrevocably disrupted, and in the near future we will unfortunately have to import the population so that pension and other funds can function at all? In other words, if the Government of the Republic of Croatia fails to do something and there will be no immediate need for an active population who pays taxes from which wages and pensions are paid indirectly. And that means that the state system will be found before the collapse and irretrievably destroyed. Please appoint a crisis demographic headquarters as soon as possible to gather leading demographics and other experts to help you see, when you have not already seen all the former governments of Croatia in the past many years. If you don't do it urgently, maybe the next government won't have anything to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18187	Thank you. The Honorable Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18188	Thank you, dear colleague Beljak, for this question which is on the trail of the ambitions of this Croatian government to put the issue of demographicism, emigration in the focus of our work. We have therefore extended the powers of the ministry involved in social policy on demographics, youth and family. One of the first questions I have asked as Prime Minister, do we really have reliable data on how many Croatian people have left Croatia in recent years? These data vary, no one has at this point precise data, but in a very recent period we will do everything to get to know him thoroughly. We have put a great emphasis on the programme we worked on in the election campaign on making Croatia grow and grow in the next four years. According to us, it is the only key prerequisite with the creation of new jobs with a perspective for young people who will provide preconditions for the stay of our people, not for the use of one of the EU's fundamental freedoms, and that is the freedom of movement of people to leave Croatia, that is our goal. We are open borders, we are for mobility, we are for the possibility that our people are looking for better jobs and on a large market of 500 million people, but we are also for our people to have living conditions here. Such is the policy of all other EU members. Therefore, the new ministry headed by counterpart Murganic will have the priority to deal with the topic, to demography, to keep our people in rural areas from which we see the most visible trend of leaving because there are few people there and quickly feel whether someone has prepared their suitcases and gone to Austria, Germany or another Western European country. This trend will try to stop the measures that will primarily have an economic character, which will have its character for better quality and better job-finding of the future, and I think that this cooperation with all parties, and you come from the HSS which I believe is particularly interested in keeping people in the Croatian village, that we can cooperate with your colleagues at the county and local level. I would say only at the end of the answer to this question to Mr Jovanovic, who was talking about double criteria, let him take a look at the SDP and in his yard. You also have your members, your mayors who are convicted of abuse of office, who have stayed in their seats, even sometimes in reelection. Therefore, you first resolve the issues of double criteria in your own backyard, and then you tell them to someone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18189	Thank you. Honorable representative Kresho Beljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18190	Thank you very much for your answer. You speak nicely, like a real politician but I beg you, because I'm a politician but I'm also a geographer and I know something about it and I know people who know something about it. Please move your policy out of the question. This isn't a matter of politics, it's a matter of profession. The Croatian people survived a thousand years under aliens, we survived the tatars, we survived the Saracens, we survived the ground torture, the Turkish torture, the Hungarian torture, so if you want the Serbian torture. Do not let the Croatian people not survive their own government, unfortunately to the greatest extent in the last 25 years of the HDZ government. You're new to it, I'm appealing to you, to your colleagues and your party friends, professors, university professors, not to mention them here now, you know who it's about, Professor. Stertsu, o prof. Akrapu, o prof. Gelu, make a crisis station to get your politics out of. Politics cannot bring good to this issue, that is, the question of the survival of the Croatian people, because if it could have already done so. It's just like that. So this is an appeal to create a crisis center and to do something about it. I'll tell you just one example from history. After the Turkish rule, Slavonia remained empty. No one wanted to move there because some policy said it should be, but professional people in the then Austrian-Hungarian monarchy gave benefits for 30 years, the release of all taxes and all that was possible to attract people from the entire Austrian-Hungarian monarchy, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Germany, so Bavaria, and even our BiH population that remained under the Turks to allow them to live in Slavonia. Slavonia has already had major problems, unfortunately Lika, the Dalmatian Zagora was in similar problems 30 years ago. And I'm afraid we lost our population irrevocably in our Croatian provinces. So please respect this appeal, not politics, but professions, and actively include the profession in solving this perhaps the biggest problem that the Croatian people have had in all history.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18191	Thank you. The next question is the esteemed representative of Mark Vesligai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18192	Here's a question for the Minister of Health and concerns the Regulation on Amendments and Supplements to the Regulation on the specialist training of doctors of medicine. Since it entered into force on 16 July 2016, however, its application has produced extremely harmful consequences both in relation to the operations of health institutions and in the quality provided to patients because it gives the possibility to drain specialists without financial compensation for the costs of specialisation at the institution which referred them to the specialisation. Namely, the amount of specialist training of a doctor for an institution is between 750 to million kuna and in Krapina-Zagorje County, which I refer to in my question, specialists can do about 6 months of their professional specialist training and the rest work in Zagreb hospitals, and throughout the course of the hospital in Krapina-Zagorje County finance their salary and expenses. That is why the administrative board of hospitals in the area of this county have also decided which directors are required... change of contract. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, in view of all these above but also other numerous observations, a procedure has been initiated for the adoption of a new regulation which regulates the conclusion of a contract with specialists in a slightly more favourable way, so it is predicted that if a resident leaves the institution that sent him to the specialisation facility, he is obliged to return the costs of specialisation in the amount of 35,000 kuna for each unsettled month, the costs of the mentor and the other costs of the specialisation. However, this still stands far less than the actual costs of specialisation and remains the problem of professional draining of specialist staff. So my question is whether you think of ministers and within which time period to solve this specialisation problem because this actually brings harmful consequences for the entire health system, for the Zagorje health care institutions, and I also think of the health system throughout Croatia especially in smaller environments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18193	Thank you. The Honorable Professor will respond. Milan Kujundzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18194	Thank you very much, Mr. High Representative. It's true, you've defined it well, it's one of the problems that has arisen. Here we must respect the need of young people and practice as it is in Europe and America, we must have freedom relatively and on the other hand we must respect the fact that what you have led to so-called. With the absolute freedom of young specialists who have no obligation to the houses that funded them during specialization, the system can seriously be compromised. And we're aware that it's a matter of urgency that needs to be resolved, and the rulebook is likely to be in place next week. So since I am by nature not a man who promises much and even less big words, it will be a rule that will, in a certain way, compromise the problem, not nearly be able to satisfy the hospitals that have invested in people, not only monetaryally but also the expectation that these people will return, and also young people will not be able to satisfy that they have absolute freedom. And somewhere we found ourselves consulting with many and with both sides, so both directors and patients, so mostly with the Croatian people, but also with young doctors because we will not keep forcing them, we found a compromise solution that would be on the trail of the next. So for the total specialization, 5 years of specialization would be the bond of a doctor who specializes in a particular house to return about 250,000 kuna, so 3,500 of what you mentioned monthly. Both sides will be somewhat dissatisfied, but I am sure that the Croatian people will be pleased because we must safeguard the health of the Croats and we must safeguard the system. And then if it turns out that it's not ideal and it's not ideally safe, then someone's going to change it in 6, 16 months, but the specials are going to start next week. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18195	Thank you. The Honorable Representative, Marko Vedligaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18196	Well, I must say, I am not completely satisfied with your answer. The rest means trouble, you said 250 thousand kuna, I mentioned that actually the amount that the institution invests in one resident from 750 thousand to million kuna. So there's going to be a big hole here again. Of course, we need to keep our country's specialist doctors, but you have to understand, and you have to sort of separate health institutions in smaller areas, in smaller counties that don't have large health centers. It's a serious threat here, and I'm asking you to take that into account anyway when making the rulebook itself. And another real threat that exists here is that of the Croatian Medical Chamber suit against the directors of health institutions who did not sign these disputed institutions, so I ask that it also, which did not sign these disputed contracts or the addition of contracts with specialists. I also ask that this be taken into account when making the new rule itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18197	Thank you. The next question will be asked by the distinguished representative Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18198	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister, Minister and Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I will refer my question to Minister Dobrovic, and it is related to the waste. Surely we can all agree together that this century at EU or all countries' level that we will be dealing with waste, waste water and climate change. There is a series of commitments that the Republic of Croatia has undertaken. So I'm going to refer a little bit to the waste management plan of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. waste management of the Republic of Croatia 2016-2022, which was in public debate and was withdrawn, is now back in public debate. We can all see whether we are coming to our jobs, to the house or to this assembly that on the way to the City of Zagreb. In which waste is not transported in a way that is to be driven, where bins are packed with waste, and what is even more, they are so-called. green islands where we leave cardboard, glass and other kinds of waste where last night I looked in my immediate vicinity where I live was all crowded, which means it's not driving. But this is one part that you would plan to have a way to work, so each of us produces at the level of 370 kilograms of waste a year and the idea is and the plan is that we have to reduce it to 50%. But when we do it with one system, we also do it when units of local self-government where we live are equally concerned about waste management. There's always one part to ask the question of what and how. So in the plan that you had in the last public debate you were talking about junk that wasn't garbage, I agree with that. Waste can also be energetic. So on the energy use of waste. Now what's in the public debate, which is an opportunity to see on the Ministry's website is said very modestly, so I'd say almost maybe in one sentence. So I want to know where it went along the way and what is therefore with the topic of waste as energy, since some countries that have much more experience than the Croatian type of Sweden or Scandinavian do, do, even export product to America. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18199	Thank you. The Honorable Minister Slaven Doborovic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18200	Thank you very much. Thanks for asking. Indeed, waste is a key problem that we will have to deal with seriously. In fact, I must immediately say that the problem of waste has been approached in a fairly wrong way so through here for the last fifteen years, it's either ignored or it's gone to one centralised globular system where here it's been counting on the conversion of garbage, so mixed waste into energy, and in part into the inert residue. We are here today, we have an access contract, we have a transposed waste directive, so that's where it says we have to recycle 50% by 2020. We have new policies that come under the name of a circular economy. They are very touching precisely the management of waste because waste is the best media to increase the degree of sustainability of our societies, we are talking about European society, a society that imports practically all minerals, so polymers etc. So, there's no bullshit about recycling, and here, I need to draw attention to you for a little bit to chase some concepts here, so the energy from the waste can also be achieved by recycling and much more because the conversion of waste can, of course, only the fuel part of the waste can go heat in one combustion plant, there to be converted into some useful form of energy that you have to transport. ETA is very low, so the use is low and we have a series of problems with environmental emissions. And that's why you're talking about European countries and their practice, that it's a long-standing practice, but we need to know that many of these countries have turned exactly to recycling because it has a greater effect than waste management. We don't have to go through these steps, build burners because many countries are now faced with the practical knowledge that this is the wrong way, but we're going to build a system in a way that participates in local, regional and state level, to create recycling centres, and that practically 180 thousand tons of recycling that we're substituting last year with material that we're going to produce in our economy that we're entering just separately collected plastics. That's possible because otherwise, if it wasn't possible then we wouldn't be able to introduce exactly that kind of material from Austria or Germany. Therefore, the direction goes in this direction, it is positive for the Republic of Croatia and what is important is that waste management policies are guided in such a way as to establish dialogue and co-operation between local, regional and state levels. Here I have in the last two days visited three Dalmatian cities where I've just had such conversations. And solutions must be such that there are answers to all questions. Practical implementation because you have touched the city of Zagreb are finally in the jurisdiction of the unit of local self-government, the city that will find something, some method, so whether these are vessels of such or such bags, which is the mode of transport. Therefore, it must certainly worry about meeting the objectives because, of course, meeting the objectives will be their obligation. Here's hoping I've answered your question. If not, I'll be very happy to meet you or anyone or discuss this with you in more detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18201	Thank you. Honorable representative Anka Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18202	Thank you very much. I'm partially satisfied with your answer. I deliberately did not tie my question to today's article in Free Dalmatia, where the Split-Dalmatia County is very referenced to the problem. In fact, no matter how the ministers change, life never starts with one of us when we sit on that chair, or at that place, but we need to see everything that was before. So you found 13 projects of the Waste Management Center in your vault. Of these two, they were in the great stage of completion. One is if the truth is given a valid license, and the other is working. These 11 were in different stages. And today I read here in Free Dalmatia a great dissatisfaction of the Split-Dalmatia County with the project and the way it is. However, my question was really focused on the city of Zagreb, and it was really related to the thermal treatment of these more which is another topic which is the subject of mud, a wastewater treatment device. You are absolutely aware that this is a problem we have not solved. The most pronounced problem is in the city of Zagreb where this mud has been delayed for many years without further action, so that regarding municipal waste and all the problems we have will certainly have the problem of mud. However, we will all be visible together whether someone at the head of a unit of local self - administration, regional self - government, or elsewhere is dealing with serious waste because on the 31.12.2018 and the obligations related there are relative to waste management and what I need to do tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18203	Thank you. The next question will be asked by distinguished representative Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18204	Thank you very much, Vice-President, the Honorable Prime Minister of Croatia, ministers and ministers. I will ask my question to the Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Mr. Oleg Butkovic. Dear Minister, the story of the famous Istrian Ipsion is a story that lasts longer than two decades. A number of initiatives, numerous decisions, constant aspirations, political conflicts marked the time in the story of the Istrian Ipsion. Otherwise, ipislon consists of two legs that connect in Kanfanar and end in Pula, starting on two sides from the Matulji road node and the Umag road node. Many viaducts, underpasses, overpasses, bridges, resorts and tunnels make up this demanding highway system in Istria. The last shares of the Istrian Ipsilon were placed on the market in 2011 when the full profile of Kanfanar-Rogovići and Kanfanar-Umag shares was released. Nothing since then. It's all stopped. The SDP, while in power, halted further construction of missing full-profile shares due to its selfish political interests on the Istrian peninsula. For few authorities and selfish reasons, the SDP is a few years behind in the construction of the traffic direction that the Republic of Croatia, which brings to the Republic of Croatia the largest number of tourists. Dear Minister, I know you've been working intensively on this project for several months now, so I'm asking you what is the current stage of the Istrian Ipsilon project, when you can expect to start working on missing shares and what effects we expect from the possible construction of missing shares. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18205	Thank you. The Honorable Minister Oleg Butkovic will respond, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18206	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. Thank you very much for this question. As far as the construction and completion of the Istrian Ipsilon is concerned, two more stages need to be built in order for it to be complete. The first is from Pazin to Ucko tunnel from the Istrian side of the so-called. two B1 phases and that second part from Matulja to including Učka tunnel. It's phase two B2. As for the construction of the second B1 phase for which all building permits were established, all installations were moved and 90% of property-legislative relations were resolved. A few months ago, and already before the talks with the concessionaire BINA Istria d.d. and beneficiaries of concessions from the other side of the Government of the Republic of Croatia through the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. In the context of the negotiations on the relationship between concessionors and concessionors, it remains to determine the price of the implementation of the second B1 phase and the content of the provisions to comply with the market practice on state aid in the field of EU concessions, with the formal consent of the European Commission. In other words, we've had two things to solve with a concessionary in the past few months. The first is that those risks that were on the Republic of Croatia and the public were repeatedly stressed that the Republic of Croatia in the 1990s when it entered the story of the construction of the Istrian Ipsilon was in an unfavourable position, to improve in these negotiations and transfer some of the risks to concessionaries in this area we succeeded in most of it. And, of course, we're a little stuck around the cost of building the second B1 phase. It is now coming to an end and after that it will all be presented at the Government of the Republic of Croatia. If that part is acceptable, we will sign a memorandum of understanding since there are all building permits in 2017 after the signing and addition and the fifth amendment of the concession contract with BINA Istria that construction can begin. I believe in the successful conclusion of these negotiations and in the successful realization of this large infrastructure project, as you have pointed out whose share comes about 60% of tourism traffic in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18207	Thank you. Dear Representative Josipi Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18208	Thank you very much. I am pleased with your response from the Minister. I think we need to build new shares, not just Istrian ipsilon. We heard today and in Slavonia, each building is looking for new employees in the construction sector. The newly employed also certainly contributes to the budgets from local, regional to state budgets, which contributes to growth and GDP, and we believe that this is a good way to build a better and more successful country to which we seek. On the contrary, we have an alternative that we had today, we look at their ranks as if they were destroyed by a subjugator, we have one destruction and dealing with individual personal problems. I think this time, which we have chosen only to work for the benefit of Croatian citizens is the path to which we should go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18209	Thank you. The next question will be asked by distinguished representative Ivan Vilibor Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18210	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Fellow representatives, members of the government. I refer my question to Mr. Maric, Minister of Finance. It's a question I've asked three or four times during the debate on a package of tax laws, so on. tax reform, it's about forgiveness of debts. Therefore, my question is Minister, I ask you to explain to whom and according to the criteria of your reform the plasmas will be written off, so we are talking about 40 billion kunas, and what will happen to the collaterals, will they also wipe out the debtors or will they stay? I want this to finally be clarified because if this issue is not clarified, there is a strong space for manipulation to the detriment of the Croatian economy and society. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18211	Thank you. We will now hear the answer of the distinguished Minister Zdravko Marić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18212	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. Your Honor, I thank you very much for asking. So you said yourself last week in the debate in the first reading on the tax regulations package we also discussed this topic, I think that the debate itself received certain suggestions and suggestions and comments that we will include among other things and in the course of the next few days, or I guess next week when we discuss the second reading, I am sure that all these issues will be resolved. I will only briefly refer at the beginning of the response to the EU Council's recommendation to clarify once again and to the Croatian public, so the recommendations of the EU Council which in many ways requires, but also recommends that as regards credit institutions, their ability to credit the economic recovery, the deleveraging of citizens and entrepreneurs, as well as the reduction of total hard-to-charge and completely non-refundable loans and claims. The past government whose member I was also personally in the national programme, the reform envisioned this measure, and now in this package of tax regulations, we have made one pain in the tax section, or done it, and we propose as a one-time measure that gives credit institutions the opportunity to write it down. But which one did you write down, and what does that apply to? It refers to credit ratings for which credit institutions have already implemented value corrections in accordance with CNB regulations, reducing the value by searching and showing reservations. These are elements which have already been shown as the cost side of their profits and losses mostly relate to the period between 2009 and 2015, which means that, with these activities or measures, the tax base of the profit tax has already been reduced during that period. However, I also want to and should point out that these proposed amendments are a key element of giving credit institutions the possibility of a one-time and what is a key term in this whole problem in full write-off of their claims, and also what we consider to be a government is very important that this ultimately means final discharge and not only write-off but also the discharge of the debts of Croatian citizens and entrepreneurs. At the same time in that case, it would also mean the release of natural collateral and everything that is related to these debts. But, of course, at this point, it is very difficult to assess in which volume credit institutions will use this option in the proposed amendments and additions to the Tax on Profits Act. In any case, our intention is not only from the perspective of the EU Council's recommendation in terms of facilitating credit institutions, but mainly towards citizens and entrepreneurs again, how many credit institutions or banks have in their balance sheets or profit and loss accounts, as well as Croatian citizens or entrepreneurs. In this way, once again, if this provision were consumed from the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Profit Taxation, I repeat, it would be a final write-off, which means permanently erasing both claims and debts. So Croatian entrepreneurs could finally settle this debt and continue and do those economic, investment and other activities they planned, and also Croatian citizens would permanently write off their debts to credit institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18213	Thank you. Now the distinguished representative Ivan Vilibor Sincic will say that he liked the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18214	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Maric, I'm not happy with your answer. You just repeated what was already written in the bill, which we heard at the debate. Croatian entrepreneurs, that's a very broad term. Is that someone who's a magnet or is that someone who's just a beginner? Therefore, we leave here a vast space of 40 billion kuna that banks do what they want, and according to the Law on Mandatory Relations, both sides will have to agree to such an agreement. And I'm afraid that's what's going to happen in advance and who's going to be forgiven, and I'm afraid there's another case of pre-price settlements ahead of us, so I guess every five to ten years we have to forgive someone for this kind of debt that the economy doesn't collapse, I guess. Therefore, I fear that without clear criteria, this will not be of benefit but to harm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18215	Thank you. The next question will be asked by a respected representative, Miroslav Simic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18216	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister, Minister and Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. My question was addressed to the interior minister, Mr Vlaha Orepic, and it is related to the current refugee crisis. One challenge presented in front of Croatia but also in front of Europe. Recently, you all know that you have visited our border with the Republic of Serbia, the border along the Croatian Slavonia, which is the entrance for refugees and Slavonia is unfortunately the first to strike in this case. What I am interested in is what is the situation in your view at the state border with the Republic of Serbia, how is it reflected in the security situation in the Republic of Croatia and what are the answers of the Croatian Government to the potential challenges that await us in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18217	Thank you. The Honorable Minister Vlaho Orepic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18218	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies of the Parliament's attorneys and gentlemen of the Parliament's attorneys, Your Honor. I will immediately say that the situation at the border between Serbia and Croatia is stable and secure. Now I'm going to explain it through some clean data. So it's a border of 122.5 km where we have at any moment in the Serb-side reception centres, the number of migrants moving about to 2,000 maximum, so I'm talking about some direct contact to our border. On our part, the Ministry of Interior forces deployed through border patrols, through thermovisions, through fictitious cameras, fixed cameras and a whole series of more technical solutions successfully and fully oversee the border of the Republic of Serbia. How popular we like to call it the green border. I would like to stress that the MUP with Ericsson recently concluded an agreement on the development of a technological solution, i.e. technical reinforcement, improving the technical control solution of the same border at the level of 50 million kuna, and it is about the thermovisions and radar systems that have been halted and thus we will fully meet all of our border control needs. Keyly, I would like to emphasise that the illegal crossing of both men and goods in that section has been completely prevented. This solution, I can be free and say at this point completely removes the possibility of any involvement of any other potential of the Republic of Croatia in terms of protection of the border. And perhaps to conclude that we have more serious inherited problems than the migrant crisis at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18219	Dear Representative Miroslav Simic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18220	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, for your reply. What I would like to stress in this expression of satisfaction with your response is the view that Croatia has so far made good access to the refugee crisis problem, that it has made a good approach in this government, in the past government and in the previous government. I think that the way in which the Croatian border is protected on the one hand and on the other hand humanely approach people in a difficult situation should continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18221	Thank you. The next question will be asked by distinguished representative Mato Frankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18222	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honored Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to ask the Minister a question. Dear Minister, you are aware that the former Kukuriku Government has adopted amendments to the Law on the restoration of Dubrovnik's monumental unit and other immovable cultural goods in the Dubrovnik area, which deprives the Dubrovnik Institute of Reconstruction at an annual level of more than 6 million kunas of budget funds. Furthermore, the law that remained in force is incomplete because part of the law has been suspended. So I ask you the following question, will you and when you start to change that law to return the active role of Dubrovnik's Institute of Reconstruction in the restoration of the monumental heritage, thereby opening up the possibility of a new contract between the city of Dubrovnik and the Society of Friends of the Dubrovnik Ages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18223	Thank you. The Honorable Minister Nina Obuljen-Kožinek will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18224	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Representative, as you know, this law was passed in the '80s after the earthquake to place a special emphasis on the reconstruction of Dubrovnik, however, the Dubrovnik Rehabilitation Office which was founded by this law played a major role in the postwar reconstruction. The truth, unfortunately in 2014, despite the warning of experts, was passed amendments and additions to the law and was expected since it entered into the derrogation of contractual relations between the city and the Association of Friends of the Dubrovnik Antiquity, the Constitutional Court abolished certain provisions of the law and thus remained in some way incomplete and incomplete. What is important, the Republic of Croatia continued to finance wages and material costs through the Ministry of Culture, but there is indeed a problem with funding the programme before these changes in 2014 these programmes were financed regularly. Today, the Institute for the Reconstruction of Dubrovnik or other cultural goods owners on which the works are carried out by society, the Institute for the Reconstruction of Dubrovnik may report for tenders but it is certain that it is necessary to return this law to the frameworks for it to be truly functional, for certain provisions to be harmonised and for all founders to have clearly defined their obligations. In that sense, at the beginning of next year, we'll do a detailed analysis. As I said, it is a law dating back to 1980, and it needs special attention to work on changes and additions, which has been changed several times, and I suppose in the second half of the following year, it could be approached by amendments and additions so that for 2017 everything is actually harmonised and completed.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18225	Thank you. Dear Representative Mato Frankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18226	I thank the minister. I'm happy with your answer. I would also like to say that the reason for the urgent changes to the law is that, under the amended law, the City of Dubrovnik is now the majority owner of Dubrovnik's Institute for Reconstruction, and the institution is founded under the law. This situation is, as you know, unconstitutional. If the institution is established by a decision or by law, the Government decision or by law, then the State must be the majority owner and manage it. to have a majority in the board of directors, to appoint a director and so on. In a particular situation, this means that such an institution with the majority share of the city should be established by the City Council of Dubrovnik. So this situation is contrary to the Law on Local Self-Government, the Law on Institutions, etc. Therefore, it sounds absolutely incredible that someone was willing to satisfy the mayor's wishes and adopt a constitutional law, and this is also related to how Mr Jovanovic said they were all equal but HDZ's are more equal. We see here that there are equal ones on the other side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18227	Thank you. The next question will be asked by distinguished representative Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18228	I will ask my question to the Prime Minister, Mr Plenkovic. Mr Plenkovic, I would like to know what your position, or position of your government, is about to pay or pay 1000 euros for each newborn child. We hear it won't be anything and it was just a wish and a promise from your predecessor, Mr. Karamark. So I ask you if Mr. Karamarko is part of the HDZ, if you deny everything he said and worked as president of the Croatian government and of your side, vice president and most importantly whether you will fulfill your party's promise because it was another con from you of citizens and citizens directed by HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18229	Thank you. The Honorable Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18230	Thank you very much, dear colleague Habek. When it comes to the extent that you are talking about the debate and the last election campaign for the Croatian Parliament in 2015, it was mentioned as one of the topics in this campaign. We try to find solutions at the government level and for the measure we consider to be encouraging for young families, for all those who want to have children. Of course, this measure according to the calculations that we now have costs about 300 million kuna. In talks between the Minister for Demography, the family, youth and social policy and the finance minister and all other government ministers, we seek to find a framework so that the measure can be applied. However, what is our main goal is to have sustainable permanent measures that would go to allow, above all, the sharing of maternity and parental benefits. In this way, we believe that better quality and more systematic support would be provided to young families and help demographic recovery. Therefore, the government will make the most of the promise. Whether it will be in this financial year or next we will see it in terms of overall movements, but in any case we remain in the position of demographic intelligence policy, along with all the other measures that we have listed to be one of our key priorities, with the financial sustainability of the Croatian budget of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18231	Thank you. Honorable representative Mario Habek.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18232	Mr. Plenkovic didn't surprise me with your answer. I'm sorry that this time you built not only the built but also the children. And is that the credibility you were talking about in the campaign? Since you haven't completely answered the question I asked you, I'm asking you a written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18233	The next question will be asked by distinguished representative Ivan Vrdoljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18234	Thank you very much, Vice President. I am referring the question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, and I am aware of the fact that several questions have already been raised regarding curriculative reform, but I will not give up my question for two reasons. First, let us stress the importance that I will probably ask you a few questions on each of the participants about one of the essential reforms that Croatia needs to implement. On the other hand, there are a number of concrete information we want to hear, which have missed the last question. To begin with, and when we have commented on tax changes, I am sorry that there has been no mention of a lack of tax relief for education, science, development, research, innovation, but I expect that in another round it will certainly pay attention to some other strategic documents or laws. However, you said a public debate was concluded last week, a number of remarks were collected, 100 days needed for answers. It's slightly less than what it took for an expert task force to make its own content. If half of February we just get the final proposal, that means that the school year 2018 and 2019 is missed, that only lost another year because we will not start with the start of the implementation of the curricula reform. I don't understand why it takes 100 or 120 days to make the whole content, and then 100 days to make it, to essentially comment on all the comments that came into the public debate. So I ask you to cut back on your time, so that you don't miss the chance that, in 2018, 2019, we don't start with the curricula reform because it's crucial that we don't lose that year. On the other hand, I ask you not to miss the opportunity to respect the strategic documents of the Republic of Croatia, the Education Strategy, the National Pedagogue Standard, the transparency and modernisation of the network of primary school institutions and the question of teacher licensing. This was missed in the debates, the correct response to the start of the curricular reform and respect for the strategic documents already adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18235	Thank you. Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic will respond, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18236	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleague Vrdoljak. Here you are, and I think you are already the third representative to look back on education, science, educational reform. I think I've made it quite clear that I don't want any of the current government, the last government, to have passed, those before taking all credit for the most qualitative thinking and thinking about educational reform. I think it's a process that we all need to find a political consensus about together. And I oppose the notion that someone is contesting something, stopping, blocking, trying to prevent a quality framework for a new educational cycle both in primary and secondary education. My goal is for our young people to achieve the best results on... tests. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] My goal is for our young people in rock areas to be so competitive that they are desirable in the context of global employment. My goal is for all of these usefully to believe the inputs given in this public consultation to be quality analyzed by experts who, which the ministry has hired and who will engage, will produce a quality document for the future. All these documents are references that you mentioned at the end of your presentation and must be respected and will be respected. And therefore, I want the Minister of Science and Education with his associates to make a priority point in this particular business, to make this procedure inclusive, open and finally bring in documents in the context of the debate in the Croatian Parliament that we will really stand behind. Because the point of our future and our children, our education, our competitiveness, I think it's the priority of all programmes. As I recall, it was your number one priority in your program for this election. I think I'm right. I think it was number one. Number two re-industrialization. Therefore, if there is anything we can and must agree on in the Croatian Parliament, then that is the subject. I repeat once again the government is open, the minister is here, ready to do everything possible to make the documents and inputs that we have received highly respected and to recognize the priorities that I believe will come upon the support of both our teachers and teachers and in the broadest sense speaking of the academic community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18237	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18238	So it's hard to say after this kind of answer that I disagree with what's said. Well, of course, we can all agree with that, but I still didn't get an answer to the question, so maybe it's not the time, maybe someone after some consultations with the minister or the expert working group when we can expect to start implementing the curricula reform. Is that in 2019 and the 20th and get then and we from the opposition will certainly give you our contribution in a decent debate where we want to give a broader consensus to some final content that will come, but we need to hear when it will take place in the implementation of the curricula reform. And the answer to the question of what will be crucial. It's not what kind of education we have, it's what education we need. When we respond to what education we need, then I believe that people from the field of science, education, will quite well agree on the content of the entire curricular reform. And I expect it to be done as soon as possible, because it's one of the priorities that we don't lose more years and years as we've lost so far. And support in perhaps faster concreteization of the final content you will surely have in us. I just think 100 days is too much, 'cause we're losing another school year.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18239	Thank you. The next question will be asked by distinguished representative Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18240	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister, the Honorable Minister and the Honorable Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. I ask my question to the Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic. Mr. President, ten days ago you were visiting, on a working visit to Dubrovnik-Neretva County and Dubrovnik where you had a meeting with both the mayor and Mr. Mayor Dobroslavic, at whose meeting Mr. Dobroslavić, the mayor of Dubrovnik-Neretvanski expressed capital projects of importance for Dubrovnik-Neretva County and for the far south of the Republic of Croatia. Among these projects, I would single out three capital infrastructure projects that include the extraction of Croatia's far south from transport isolation. These are the construction of the Pelješki bridge, it is building a full profile of the highway to Dubrovnik through the Dubrovnik coast or through Croatian territory. And the third capital infrastructure project that has long been discussed is the construction of a fast road from the airport of Cilipi to the port of Gruz. At the moment, the most important project for Dubrovnik-Neretva County is the building of the Pelješko Bridge, which is the territorial discontinuity of the Republic of Croatia, which is crucial in transport terms for further development of the southern Croatia and in transport, but which is not less important both in economic terms and in the Pelješac peninsula, the islands of Korčula and Mljet, but also in the Dubrovnik coast, Župu and Konavle. My question to ask you is what is the government doing at this time with the construction of the Peles Bridge? When can we expect the start of its construction? And as you know, the ranks on that bridge were suspended just before 2012 when the government of Zoran Milanovic stopped the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18241	The answer will be given by the Prime Minister, Honorable Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18242	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A esteemed colleague of Bacic's. It was a pleasure to talk to you and Mayor Dobroslavic as well as Mayor Vlahusic on the occasion of a visit to Dubrovnik-Neretva County and the town of Dubrovnik a few days ago and to be thoroughly familiar with the expectations of our fellow citizens living in Dubrovnik-Neretva County and we can freely tell one of those counties that, in the most plastic sense, feels its kind of traffic isolation. So not only because we don't have a highway to Dubrovnik at this time built, so away from Ploč but also because of the fact that Croatia in that part of its territory is in some way divided into two parts, we have BiH territory. And building Peljek money for Croatia for the government of the Republic of Croatia is not only connecting our territory, it is one key in which we should also look through the prism of the Schengen system to connect EU territory with EU territory i.e. with the Croatian route of the Pelješki bridge. As a result of all this and a series of discussions held in this House, because of the dialogue that we have and with the European Commission, with the European Investment Bank, with international financial institutions, the competent ministry, the Croatian Roads take the necessary steps to make it all seem that not only the Pelješki bridge but also the combined roads come at a high stage of certainty to suit the European Commission, resulting in the approval and the appropriate funding for it. We expect that the final decision through Jarspers will take place in December which, in my deep conviction, would be extremely important for further dynamics. The EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds plays an important role in supporting this project and, together with the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure in dialogue with the Commission services, is working on its realisation. I believe that very soon after this positive decision we will be able to access the concrete start of the work on this strategic infrastructure project for Croatia that will enable long-term viewing of all our people in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, especially in the summer months when there are extremely great crowds at the border crossings, simpler and more quality communication modes and a merger towards the rest of Croatia. It is one task that is not only a priority for MPs, such as you from Dubrovnik-Neretva County, but for all of us to show the appropriate solidarity and the intention to help better connect Croatia and implement a project that we did not have a consensus on several years ago, where there were different political parties' views in the Croatian Parliament, but I think today it has matured the time and assessment that through consensus and funding from the EU, the European Investment Bank, the Structural Funds we try to address this issue that is of capital importance and the quality of the link between islands that are within the Dubrovnik-Neretva County. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18243	Thank you. Dear Representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18244	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am pleased Mr. President with your response and congratulations to the Government on the activities that have been done in the past tense. I must say that I also commend Minister Butkovic and Minister Tolusic, and now my colleague Žalac for these activities that contribute to the fact that by June and by summer, we may have a performer on the construction of the Peljega Bridge. I talk very often about this project here in this House because I feel a responsibility as a representative from the county I come from. I believe that the construction of the Pelješko Bridge of citizens of Dubrovnik-Neretva County in constitutional terms is not equal with the other citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The fact that citizens of Dubrovnik-Neretva County who live in the area of Neretva when they go to work daily in Dubrovnik, Dubrovnik coast or vice versa, when citizens of Dubrovnik-Neretva County go to work in the Neretva area four times cross the border and indeed create discomfort, a problem and a significant increase in the cost of living both citizens and entrepreneurs in the area of Dubrovnik-Neretva County. So I appeal to all of these deadlines that you mentioned earlier, which I think we are assigned and that they are accessible to be really solved next year in order to start building the Pelje Bridge after the summer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18245	Thank you very much. The next question will be referred to by a respected representative, Franco Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18246	Thank you, dear Vice President. Prime Minister, members of the government. My question goes to Mr. Goran Maric, Minister of State Property. Therefore, in Sibenik there is a TEF land of about 300 thousand square meters, which is burdened with a long and series of mortgages worth about 150 million kunas. Believers are mostly the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Finance, the Energy Efficiency and Environmental Protection Fund, so this is about the principle of state institutions. It is also a property of crucial importance for the further development of the city of Sibenik since it is located in contact with the historical core. A month ago, two over TEF d.d. A bankruptcy has been launched due to a long-term blockade of accounts, so the blockade is longer than five thousand days and the case is currently under process. How much information I have in the first degree was rejected by the court, but FINA complained about it. Since the mayor of Sibenik has, on several occasions, publicly expressed great hopes for you in terms of resolving the debt and land of the TEF, please answer my next question. Number one, does this land belong to either ownership or any other foundation of debt or similar to that of your vault? And number two, if it really does belong, then I'd ask you to tell me what time and how do you think to solve this problem because it is truly crucial to the city of Sibenik? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18247	Thank you. The respected Minister Goran Maric will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18248	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Representative Vidic, thank you for asking. I am familiar with this problem because it is an electrodes and ferolegure factory in Sibenik and the difficulties are still dating back to 1993 when due to the war circumstances, the factories were brought to a halt in production and in a very unpleasant situation. The factory is located, you said yourself at about 300 thousand square meters, in particular 28 hectares of land, by the sea and very close to the center of the town of Sibenik. And it's still bordering 20 acres of land owned by the city of Sibenik itself. It's a huge potential for the development of Sibenik, but that potential has been dead for more than 20 years. It was tried to resolve this in 1998 so that the share of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the TEF was transferred to the city of Sibenik, which was also done 62.13% was transferred to the city of Sibenik under the obligation of the city of Sibenik to pay off the debts of the Republic of Sibenik by selling real estate. This resolution model failed and proved today that it was actually even bigger than it was. The town of Sibenik has made a request to the ministry to redefine relations between the government and the city of Sibenik because it is now a debt even greater than it was. The kind of proposal we've received from the ministry is just as inconclusive. But the Ministry of State Assets will have a thorough insight into the existing situation and will find an optimal and lasting model with all interested parties to solve this problem because the resolution of this problem does not suffer a delay and we will not delay in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18249	Thank you. Dear Representative Franco Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18250	I would like to thank the Vice President, thank the Minister for his reply. I have to say, I'm not quite happy, I see you're trying to bring the whole problem out the way it is, but you're forgetting one important thing. We all know what the Croatian judiciary is like. This company is in bankruptcy at this point, and it will happen to us that the bankruptcy manager practically manages the entire TEF land or that there is a sale to settle the debt and the debt is in principle much less than the value of the land itself. You know that yourself. So here I would ask you in front of the entire Croatian public to really take steps and do it urgently in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18251	Thank you. The next question will be addressed by the distinguished representative Marijana Balic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18252	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government, Vice-Presidents and Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. I will refer my question to the Minister of Regional Development and the EU funds to Mrs. Žalac. It is indisputable that the division of Croatia into two statistical regions that were justified by 300m euros in the EU's larger money location has damaged our most vulnerable region in eastern Croatia. This division of 2013 affected, deposited and impoverished Slavonia is classified in continental Croatia along with the Croatian metropolis Zagreb, the centre of economic power. How is it even possible to achieve the goals of reducing regional differences if the poorest are grouped with the richest? And if, according to the map of regional support, investment in for example in Tovarnik, Rovinj or Zagreb is encouraged in the same way, what do you intend to do about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18253	Thank you. The Honorable Minister Gabriela Zhalac will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18254	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Representative Balic, thank you for asking and allow me to answer your question in short lines. As for the division of the statistical region, which is therefore 30.8. overnight. In 2012, in the morning list on which we all at regional level had to admit we were extremely shocked because in Pannonian Croatia, where I also participated in my previous work as a development coordinator and regional development projects, we remained quite shocked. So afterwards, we also had a meeting at the Ministry of Regional Development with then Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Greek, where actually the Croatian mayors gathered for the first time and asked the same question because no one knew it. In fact, the State Statistics Institute has divided Croatia into two regions overnight instead of three under the exception that the 300m euros you mention will be greater allocation from EU funds. I must admit, upon taking over the minister's duties, no valid document has been found to justify such a thing, namely that's not true. I must also point out that the city of Zagreb, since our capital has over 800 thousand, about 800 so thousands of inhabitants, there are models in which we can separate it into a separate whole. Nowhere in EU member states there is such a situation as currently in the Republic of Croatia, that we are not talking about that GDP per capita, all 8 of the then-run counties of Pannonian Croatia, by joining the other 6 from central Croatia exclusively because of the city of Zagreb, has increased the level of GDP per capita from 39% to more than 60% and the estimates were up to 2027 on that paper, I remember it well today, that it will be below 60% of GDP per capita in Continental Croatia. However, by calculating what the Croatian public does not know, 61% says that we regional support for entrepreneurs in Slavonia for asking Tovarnik, Rovinj, Zagreb, however, 25% of the maximum aid intensity for entrepreneurs in eastern Slavonia, Rovinj, Zagreb, Dubrovnik. We're changing the statisticals, just to answer you, we've run a sign of a change in the statistical region, of course we need bases for that. I'm going to insist on that, and that's what I said in my first shows. And what is most important is regional support for our EU fund entrepreneurs because this is inadmissible. 25% instead of 35 for a non-founded calculation, it's inadmissible, simply inadmissible. By amending legislation as I said in the previous issue, we will allow poor Slavonia through EU funds up to 100% funding through the Slavonia project through existing rural development programmes, operational cohesion competitiveness programme, operational programme for human potential development and also rural development programme. And I have to admit that we've already opened a table to measure these effects, and then in 2020, we'll go out with that kind of investment. In which sectors, in which way, specifically so that there are no irregularities. And as for the NUC2 region in any case in the following year, we will begin the process and what is the tendency of our ministry is that we are preparing for a new perspective in 2021-2027 in a way that decentralises the management of EU funds so that we have regional operational programmes for our counties, cities and municipalities with resources and then strategic governance and everything else we have heard so far will be absolutely no problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18255	Thank you. Dear representative Marijana Balic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18256	... and I appeal to you and your ministry to correct this injustice that has been done to us as soon as possible and, of course, in accordance with the legislation. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18257	Thank you. The next question will be asked by a respected representative, Zeljko Lackovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18258	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Prime Minister, members of the government, esteemed Minister Murganic, this question I have raised, and I will refer to the demographic renewal to you. I think you're acting like one of the most sensitive and complex resistors in this government. This comes from the very title, so demographics, families, youth and social policies. So my question before I ask you will have one introduction and it will refer to the financial data that we have here on the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament have had the opportunity to hear because it always gets stuck on the money. So in order for your answer not to be immediately no money, I'm going to tell you that, from 2014 to 2015, the tax revenues that amounted to 68 billion kuna recorded a 7.8% growth or approximately 5 billion kuna. The tax on income, profit tax, VAT has grown, so obviously from 2014 to 2015, a certain amount of money has been created and will be determined, it is expected to be in 2016. So I'm asking you, are there any simulations done? Is it possible to recognize the status of nurse mother for all those families that have 3 and more children? Did you do those simulations, did you study the example introduced by the City of Zagreb, and do you have any other model that would go exactly in the direction of enhanced demographic restoration? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18259	Thank you. The respected minister, Nada Murganic, will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18260	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, Prime Minister and Minister, honourable MPs, I am very grateful to you for the issue and for this opening statement. Namely, demographic restoration and revitalisation is one of the most frequently asked questions after the formation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia we have the Ministry of Demography and all of this other thing you said was really about a complex and sensitive resort. The government of the Republic of Croatia has outlined demographic revitalisation as one with the economy and an increase in employment as the most important issue of this society in its repeated four-year period. Since we have a ministry and we have right for demography and is recently appointed to the head of the administration of the State Secretary, Doctor of Science Demography student, that is, student Professor Akrap. So, I believe that, not only do I believe, but I do know, and it will be a task for him, together with a team of both young and older experts, to bring together documents that will bind the government in this assembly during his four-year period, but I believe those other governments with strategies for young people who, both in government and in this House, will reach consensus for reasons that there are no measures and measures that will result in the duration of a government. So all these measures should have one scientific basis and just like you said they should have both financial and other simulations. The public is most sensitive to those measures that are related to motherhood, with the birth rate, and these days questions are often asked to share maternity and parental benefits, as well as to compensation for newborn babies. These measures already exist, however, are clearly insufficient and have not obtained results and have not proved to be demographic policy measures and will therefore be revised. Also, there are many measures, I will just throw them in because of what we said will be done by experts, measures that will harmonize family business life, therefore social services, kindergarten services, school stays at school, measures that will also be related to the Labour Act, measures that will be related to the incentives of young people in employment, equal and rural and regional development, we will include in this and our immigration, will also take care of planned immigration and many things. I repeat these are all documents that will require legal procedures, and in this House and the public, I certainly expect no matter how many these measures may have been in the first moments seemed insufficient in both the financial amount and the volume, that we have a positive view of them because only in a positive atmosphere will we be able to talk about demographic policy. I would also like to say, if you had already seen and in tax reform, some measures are announced that have a demographic sign. A colleague, Kusevic, also spoke of subsidising loans and many others. Some will already be recognised in budget 2017. The dynamics of introducing these measures will clearly depend on economic growth, but they will not be introduced all in the first year but will have to be spent years behind us.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18261	Thank you. Dear Representative Željko Lackovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18262	I thank you for the response that has actually been presented on the measures that are yet to be introduced. What I was actually asking was whether this Zagreb model tried to scan and apply and see how it would reflect on such a measure if it was introduced in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia. Since you're not, I'll be free, so I'll tell you about it. So, within three months, the duration of the measure in the city of Zagreb has filed 1966 requests from 17203 families who had the right to do so, which means that it is about 11% of the demands. In Croatia, you have 112830 families from 2011 and if you take the same percentage 11%, you would have approximately 12411 requests. If these requirements were to be processed by, or admitted to, the mother’s compensation for education, it would be approximately, they could make an income of 4521 kuna, and it would cost you an additional 847 pension stake. The second pillar wouldn't have to pay them. Don't forget that all those who work to free the job, so out of those 12 and a half thousand if you do half of them, you have 6000 jobs right now. And on the other hand, if she's a socialist, she's the same as your ministry, then that socialist state is costing something. Because a family with three kids on welfare has only guaranteed a minimum income of 2,000 kuna. And they have health insurance, so they're insured. So here you're going to have the same reduced cost not as much as that cash would be. You have less pressure on kindergartens. So you have a disbursement of local self-government in the part of co-financing of kindergartens. And that's why I was interested in whether you made a simulation, because that simulation would tell you that it takes 800 million kunas with the equivalent of savings. Or maybe it's a measure to encourage parents to have two children, because you've had them since '91. For years, the statistics look like this. 433 thousand families in '91 In 2001, please a second, 372,000 and 2011. 319. 115 thousand families can be encouraged to go to another child with a concrete direct measure. [[Intruder Reiner: Time.]] I'm asking you to accept some of this.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18263	Thank you. The next question will be asked by distinguished representative Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18264	Thank you, dear Vice President. My question will be asked to honor the Minister of Finance, Mr. Maric. Well, Mr. Maric, we've talked about this subject a few times. I've asked you this question both publicly and unofficially. I haven't got an answer yet, so I'm setting it up again today. So, from the analysis of the conversion of CHF credit published on the Ministry of Finance's pages, it appears that the state of capital and interest before the conversion was 20.9 billion kuna. After the conversion, the state of capital and interest is 15.4 billion kuna. The 15.4 billion kuna also includes converted loans and those that will be converted, as well as those loans that will not be converted at all. So that's the overall state of the capital after the conversion is fully implemented, 15.4 billion kuna. The difference is five and a half billion kuna. When added to this, the effect of the surplus payment is added because CHF debtors have overpaid by a billion and 100 million loans in relation to the euro loans of the same type. When added to five and a half billion kuna, $1.1 billion total is 6.6 billion. So, according to the calculation that comes from the Ministry of Finance's analysis, we come up with the cost of conversion of 6.6 billion kuna and suddenly there's a figure of 7.6 billion kuna of conversion costs. So I'm asking you again what makes these billions of kunas that you can't see from the difference between the principals to which you add a surplus over payment. That's my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18265	The Honorable Minister Zdravko Maric will respond, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18266	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, I thank you very much for asking. Here's as you pointed out yourself we've already had that communication before, and I can only repeat what I've been saying in some way so far. Therefore, the 2015 Act amending and supplementing the Consumer Credit Act is defined and prescribed in Article 19(4) that the creditor is, therefore, the individual credit institution is obliged to the Ministry of Finance within six months of the entry into force of the law to submit a report on the results of the conversion of credits containing data on the number of consumers who have accepted or did not accept conversion as a credit situation and, of course, together with all the effects of the conversion. These data are in accordance with the legal obligation delivered to the Ministry of Finance by the end of March. The Ministry of Finance, in accordance with its obligation, and after receiving all the data received, united them and published them on its websites, and also directed all interested parties, of course, to the ‘Franak Association’. What I have to say is, of course in terms of numbers, these are already known that 93.9% of total users have accepted the conversion of the loan from a total of 58367 contracts. However, I must also point out, therefore, as regards the accuracy of the data which you, among other things, question or dispute. Therefore, the Ministry of Finance does not have that jurisdiction as it does not otherwise have the jurisdiction of any type of credit institution in terms of supervisory supervision. We know well that these supervisory powers, supervisory powers, are actually in the hands of the CNB, and only it, as a supervisor, could determine the accuracy of the data that was delivered. The only authority of the Ministry of Finance was prescribed by the Consumer Credit Act on their changes and additions in terms of infringement provisions if one of the creditors would, therefore, deafen the credit institutions or banks and not provide that information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18267	Thank you. Dear Representative Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18268	Dear Minister Maric, I am absolutely dissatisfied with your answer. You as finance minister should know that the cost of conversion makes tax relief for banks. Since you still don't know what... these billions of kunas should have asked around and you should have given the task to your people at the Ministry of Finance to examine what... these billions of kunas mean to 200 million kuna less in the budget of the Republic of Croatia. So it seems to you as Minister of Finance that it doesn't matter. I appeal to you to do everything in your power to find out what makes these billions of kunas because, in my opinion, there is no cost. In my opinion, there is an assumption that it may have escaped the profits of banks that banks want to make as a cost. Winning a profit can't be the cost of conversion. So I appeal to the Ministry of Finance to find these billions of kunas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18269	Thank you. The next question will be asked by distinguished representative Damir Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18270	Thank you, Vice President. I will ask my question to the Prime Minister, Mr Plenkovic. At the presentation of your government, we have warned that one of your ministers is carrying a serious burden disqualifying him for the management of a very important portfolio, which is a portfolio of education and science. We have indicated that there are serious doubts about his honesty both scientifically and publicly available, given the tails that remained in the period when he performed some other public functions in the ministry and the institute. But especially inadmissible is what applies to plagiarism charges. But in the end, it wasn't everything else on the charges. A few weeks ago, the minister admitted to plagiarizing someone else's work. Mr Plenkovic, when are you going to ask your plagiarist minister to resign or are you going to resolve it yourself because it is a disgrace to the entire academic community, the Croatian Government, and you yourself? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18271	Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18272	Dear fellow Tomic, I think that we have already discussed this topic on the occasion of the government's presentation of a series of attacks that took place in the first weeks of the government's work on Minister Barisic, he answered in his interviews and in public appearances, and a number of people from the university and academic circles who supported him is much greater than that circle that attacks him and insinuates his inadequacy to act as Minister of Science and Education. I think Minister Barisic has made it very clear with his arguments that all these claims are unfounded, and some of them even by different ethical committees have been removed or, otherwise, even by judicial means, a clear explanation. Thus, Minister Barisic normally behaves his duty. His mission is the Croatian future, science, education, education, education reform, not topics that distract him from what he was appointed to do as Minister of Science and Education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18273	Thank you. Dear Representative Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18274	An expected answer that shows you're all just untrustworthy and absolutely don't trust you. Today you showed it to two examples in answer to two questions to my colleagues when you had an ex-post mind. Namely, you attacked your colleague Jovanovic for cleaning in your own ranks. I don't need to remind you that we cleaned up in our own ranks on much less charges and much less serious accusations than those concerning Mr Barisic. The second, amazing and unworthy statement you made was in your later mind the response to Mr. Fred Matic when you called him for a relationship with a democratic leader in Serbia and thus you sent a message that all Serbs were Chetniks. Are you aware of that? I must remind you that your friend, your role model Mr. Vukic was standing over the surrounded Sarajevo in a Chetnik uniform while that city was being destroyed, that Mr. Vukic was panicking and hating in Croatian cities. Now he's part of your family. Perhaps it would be better if you'd looked up to one of your other role models, and that's Mrs. Merkel, who, I'll remind you, has resolved two ministers in her government and this education minister for the plagiarization of doctorate as well as the defence minister for the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18275	The next question will be that of the distinguished representatives of Goddess Macar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18276	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Prime Minister. According to signed agreements to build schools, the state owes Koprivnica-Kristevci County, Varazdin County and the town of Koprivnica an amount of 15 million kuna. So far, many memos have been sent to the Ministry of Science and Education and the Ministry of Finance, but the answers have not arrived. Many calls have been made to pay these bills, but without any feedback. The state regularly settled its obligations during 2015, however, in 2016, payment ceased. So I ask you, Prime Minister, is it possible not to implement agreements signed by the Ministers of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18277	Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18278	Thank you, dear colleague Macar. It is an obligation for the state to stand behind all the agreements the ministers have mentioned. I must admit that this exa-brupto I do not know exactly what contracts it is and what kind of obligations we have towards schools in Koprivnica-križevci County, Varazdin County and I think the Bjelovar-Biogorska you mentioned, I will check it out with the competent minister and we will give you a written answer because such a kind of detail in such a short time is not only me but I believe that no one else would be able to answer it. However, I will use this for Agent Tomic's comment. Well, of course I'm going to answer you because you insinuated something, I didn't say something, but something that, in my court, took a lot of creativity so that in your logical conclusion, you could make this claim. ... You're being creative a little bit, insulting other peoples, it's obviously some kind of style that's developing in your party, remember a little bit of what we've been listening to in the election campaign. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Therefore, what I have stressed is to insinuate to us that the party that has been joined by the European People's Party following the opening of accession negotiations with the EU, which is a logical sequence of the statutes of the European People's Army, you are talking about role models, pick-ups, cousins, you are a little out of line. And you fellow Matic are arguing a kind of debate that I am rebelling against, a kind of demagogy and pulsism that I will fight throughout my mandate on all possible topics, and especially on this topic and try to do, what, upset the relations between Croats and the Serb minority in Croatia? Disturbing the relationship between Croatia and Serbia? You might want to contribute to them this way? I don't think you're going to contribute, and you're not going to influence government policy, and you're not going to affect the responsible policy that builds relationships and that's there to solve the problems that have accumulated over the past 25 years, and we're doing it responsibly, and we're not doing it cheaply so that we're making these conclusions that have nothing to do with what I've said or what this government is doing. Therefore, my colleague Tomic, I think that you have indeed missed the absolute conclusion and your comments and I do not have to admit that I expected such a thing, I expected a higher degree of political responsibility and understanding of the processes in which we are in. If you don't understand them, it's okay, you have time to learn a little bit about international relations, I can say that I know a lot more about it than you do, and I'm going to run such a policy and act responsibly.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18279	I see there's been an outbreak of the Rules of Procedure's injuries, so here you are, firstly respected... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18280	Dear Vice President, Articles 137 and 138 have been injured, the Prime Minister may know more about foreign policy, international relations, but he has no idea about the Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure. He can't answer to a representative's later brains. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18281	My friend, you don't have a lot of insight into the Rules of Procedure either, because you've talked about not the subject, and you've left the topic. Dear Representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18282	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm not late anywhere, I called in time for my colleague Milinovic. Therefore, Articles 135 to 138 were injured because Mr. Prime Minister, in a desire to answer his later use of his time and to answer his previous questions and thus does not allow MPs to answer him to what he was saying. It is located in the Croatian Parliament and in the Croatian Parliament should respect the rules prescribed by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18283	It's true, I agree with that, but then we must respect it. MPs who did the same. Here's your distinguished representative, Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18284	In addition, Articles 132, 133, 134, 135, 136 means all articles that speak about the question of oral representation. So this is abuse of the Rules of Procedure and what you allow the Prime Minister to do is abuse your function. So the prime minister can't answer with a delay of two or three questions. Why? Because then the representative to whom he answers has no right to comment. The point of asking parliamentary questions is to answer the question and that the MP can later express his position on the matter. This is how it gets thrown out, and you allow it. And you know that you are violating the Rules of Procedure and instead of warning the Prime Minister who may not have to know, that he no longer does it, when he did it once, you persistently allow such a violation of the Rules of Procedure in the interest of your political party. Don't do that, spoil the impression of both yourself and the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18285	Comrade Stazic, don't worry about my impression, take care of the impression of yourself. And the impression of you is familiar. But what I'm trying to tell you is that if we'd strictly stick to the fact that everyone has to stick to those topics then I can assure you that I would have to interrupt every other MP, because every so many, every so many people walk away from the topic and we have one tolerance, there's tolerance and my predecessor to one limit, of course, now that she's really crossed over then of course we always warn the one who talks but that tolerance exists and you know that it exists so let's not pretend that we don't know. We here in this House are still quite tolerated when we talk about topics, when we strictly hold the topic in session, I unfortunately assure you that I would have to interrupt almost everyone or every other one of them, I suppose. Here it is. My colleague Bauk, do you also think that the Rules of Procedure have been injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18286	Not to think, Mr President, I am sure that Article 100, paragraph 1, at least, is injured, which says that a member of the Government to whom the question has been asked is immediately required to answer his question or to state the reasons why he cannot answer but cannot answer the previous question. We had namely one case in our parliamentary practice when Mr. Ivo Sanader tried to make it his last [[I'm sorry, I'm sorry, colleague Bauk.]] On the current morning, and it didn't work out. [[Invader Reiner: Comrade Bauk, I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18287	I'm sorry, you're the one who hurt the Rules of Procedure when I was saying, "You're the one who hurt the Rules of Procedure." What did I hurt the Rules of Procedure in?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18288	You have been injured in the excessive tolerance of breach of Article 137(1), which in itself is a violation of Article 137(1) if we will now be outsmarted and dribbled.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18289	We're not going to outsmart ourselves, there's going to be damage to the Rules of Procedure when someone who hurt him speaks. You showed up later and raised the Rules of Procedure and started talking about something that happened earlier. But good.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18290	I saw what happened, and I did my duty as a representative. So, the topic is is it the last prime minister or is it the last representative? In the current hour, the last MPs and this is not changed in 2008, and this practice should not be changed now. So look at the 2008 phonograms when it comes to hurting the Rules of Procedure, changing the Rules of Procedure that the prime minister will be able to respond to the MP's reply. This story is over eight years ago and don't open it again, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18291	I agree with you fellow Bauk absolutely, but you yourself have said there is one space that is common and that we constantly use away from a strict topic. If you want to apply it strictly I can promise you now that every time I chair I will strictly apply it. So we'll see what things look like. I don't think that's good, I think you should allow one freedom, even when people wander away from a strict topic a little to contribute actually to parliamentaryism. But we can do it differently. Let's just say you've just hurt the Rules of Procedure, and I won't take that as an evil. Here you go, fellow Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18292	The Honorable Vice-President of the Assembly has been injured by the article of Rules of Procedure from 135 to 137.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18293	You picked up on me, too?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18294	To you, Mr. Vice President, because you did not clearly point out to the esteemed representative Bauku and remind him of when we could attend the current morning when Mr. Zoran Milanovic interpreted the Rules of Procedure and kidnapped him from his hands to explain him and in his answers he interpreted things just not what he was wondering. He talked about all the possible topics I didn't talk about the topics that man asked him about and you could never get an adequate answer. Not only that, but you've been waiting one year for the answers to the MPs we've been putting to the government, Mr. Vice President. That's what you should have told Mr. Bauk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18295	My fellow Mesic, thank you for your instruction, but we couldn't figure it out as a violation of the Rules of Procedure. And I suggest that we stop these violations of the Rules of Procedure. Here are some who yearn for it, then go ahead, counterpart Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18296	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. We are, in violation of the Rules of Procedure of Article 137, at what counterpart Mesic said. Because we agreed to do everything in this conference so that Parliament has dignity. Therefore, there is a parliamentary representative of the Holy Council in the House, and he cannot be offended by the Croatian prime minister. So today, Mr Plenkovic, on several occasions after three questions had passed, answered the MPs the previous three questions. And by doing so, he made it impossible for the representative to point out what he was saying. Let's just say, in my case, he told a lie. And I couldn't react to it. That is why I believe that this cannot be allowed in the Croatian Parliament precisely because we want to restore the dignity of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18297	I estimate he hasn't been injured by the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18298	... and the president of the SDP club and agree on a solution to this situation. [[Specially enabled.]] How about that? A colleague from the SDP, can you do that? ... Club presidents, club presidents have special powers, they're always here, and it would be best if they agreed. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18299	Okay. I suggest we get back to work. So the next question will ask... Sure, well, I was just about to say, but good. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Fortunately, nothing happened. Dear representative of the Goddess Macar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18300	That since all this has been delayed, perhaps the prime minister has already forgotten what I asked him, so I'm going to do it one more time. It is about a debt of 15 million kuna of Koprivnica-Kristevci County, Varazdin County and the town of Koprivnica for the construction of schools under the signed agreement. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff of the European Parliament and of the Council in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. And since the prime minister didn't answer me because he was busy with this previous debate, I'm asking for a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18301	Thank you. From what I understand, he just answered you, but good. The next question will be asked by distinguished representative Dragica Roscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18302	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Prime Minister, honourable ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I refer my question to the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Economy Dr. Dalic. In fact, citizens have been concerned about the tax reform justifiably because we know it means tax reform and in itself it will not give effect to the economy as it should. There is also a need for cooperation and to implement other measures to get the expected growth in the economy and those measures that are expected and to simplify both procedures and remove administrative barriers are at the Ministry of Economy. How successful these measures will be will be assessed by the World Bank in its annual report on the ease of business Doing Business for 2018. I am personally and publicly interested in the fact that you are briefly at your post Croatia simply needs quick and concrete measures, which are the measures you have prepared so far, which are the first moves and here, please tell me more about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18303	Dear Minister Martina Dalic, vice president.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18304	Thank you very much. Well, tax reform, as we know, has brought a series of reliefs for the citizens themselves as well as a number of redundancies for the economy. The effects of tax reform are therefore the realisation of what we have often talked about and much about between the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Parliament, that the Croatian economy needs tax redundancies to increase its competitiveness, as well as for Croatian citizens to improve their standard of living. And that's finally what this Assembly meeting will have the opportunity to decide in the coming weeks. But just to achieve as high as possible and as widely as possible the impact of tax reform on the competitiveness of the economy is clear that reforms and changes concerning, in particular, the business climate and the improvement of the business climate should continue. And these are the reforms and changes in focus and at the heart of the economy ministry. What I am taking this opportunity to announce will be one of the most important projects of the Ministry of Economy next year is so-called. regulatory guillotine, i.e. a comprehensive simplification of legislation in terms of simplification and improvement of business conditions. It's a project we're preparing. What we are currently doing and what I expect to implement in the next few weeks is a series of measures to reduce the administrative burden on the economy and reduce parafiscal burdens. The Ministry of Economy will act as a co-ordination body, with a number of resolutions in which different regulations are laid down by different parafiscal burdens on the economy. And tomorrow, there will be a proposal for a law on public procurement which also brings discharge and which you will be able to decide on, I hope, during this year. For example, this concrete measure of the Public Procurement Act for which I clearly do not, I do not want to reduce it here is to the greatest extent prepared during the previous period. Unfortunately, however, it has not been discussed in the parliamentary procedure will ensure a direct reduction of costs for the economy of 42 million kuna, and will bring of course and significantly expect an improvement in the value of public procurement carried out by public contracting authorities, and then, indirectly, a reduction in the costs of the state budget. Of course, it should be pointed out that reforms concerning business climates, improving business conditions, reducing regulatory and administrative burdens are in fact measures of lasting character. So something that needs to be done over and over again. Therefore, one of the results of the efforts of the Ministry of Economy in the coming year will be the establishment of a permanent and stable system through which entrepreneurs will be able to report and point to those legislative and administrative provisions where different obstacles are found. So, apart from the regulatory guillotine itself, we want to create systemic and structured solutions that will be open to entrepreneurs permanently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18305	Thank you. Honourable representative Dragica Roscic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18306	Here I am pleased to hear... Tax reform and our ministries are working, we have synergy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is very important that you note that entrepreneurs are involved in this decision-making process. And here I would point out that we are among the most successful in international trade on the World Bank's list of ease of business, as well as in praise and in the media, we can see the statements by Minister and Tolusic that despite our desire to be among the best, as far as international trade is concerned, we will not allow garbage on our shelves. I also commend the work of the Ministry of Construction which is working on legal-immuvine, solving legal property problems, so I believe it will all result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18307	Thank you. The next question will be asked by the distinguished representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18308	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Croatian Government, Minister and Minister. I will refer my question to Mr Goran Maric, Minister of the newly formed Ministry of State Property. Mr. Minister, how do you see your role in this ministry, how do you plan to manage state property? And one more question. Is this ministry really set up for you like the media were saying?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18309	The Honorable Minister Goran Maric will respond, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18310	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Representative Hrg, thank you for asking. I think first of all, it's a good indication that the Ministry of State Property was founded even now after a quarter of a century. And there is a question of what are the basic criteria, which were the crucial criteria for this ministry's long absence, which were the reasons why we had no state property ministry for 25 years. There are many reasons, but I can only say that they were not happy either. Because the foundation of the ministry is an unequivocal indicator to both the people and the public that the time of improvisation has passed in relation to such a huge issue as state property. And not only improvisation, but relativeizing such an important problem. The ministry is a fundamental institutional place where politics is run on something. If there is a need for authority and policy force somewhere, then it is precisely necessary in such an important place as state property, and it is mostly because of the requirement of the general good that state property is no longer managed but also the masters, and there is a huge difference between the management and the management of state property because the management is significantly wider and more complex term. And state property management opens up opportunities for market development, many capital markets, this is a first-class instrument for the development of the real estate market, the lease markets, the concessions, but it is also an important instrument for a balanced regional policy. It's a rare country that has a balanced rare policy that has left state property. It's just one major instrument. And as far as these speculations are concerned, I'm reluctant to comment on speculation, and so is that speculation that the ministry founded it because of me. As a political official, I am responsible no matter where I am, and in such a relationship, it is unthinkable to ask for something, to demand it because it is not how I function. And we all know, even the opposition representatives stressed that the Ministry of State Property is very much needed by Croatia. People and property are the main reasons for the existence of a state, it has long been known and this is a message from the government of the Republic of Croatia to its people by the foundation of the Ministry of State Property that yet Croatia exists and that the state exists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18311	Dear Representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18312	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. I personally supported the establishment of this ministry and I am absolutely pleased with your response. I am aware that it was no one's individual decision but it was the decision of the entire government, a policy that really wants to approach the business of managing the property of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, whether it's material or not, in a very different way. I will say as you have said, finally, and I am convinced that you will do well and that the government will very well manage our assets at last. I will take this opportunity because I personally have some experience in converting the state property of those military facilities for civilian use, here I will invite you to visit your Križevci to visit the space that we have re-scheduled state property to civil needs, you may find it helpful in some experiences while collecting them throughout Croatia. Anyway, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18313	Thank you. The next question will be asked by distinguished representative Darko Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18314	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My question goes to the Deputy Prime Minister and Mr Krstičević. So it is generally known that this government did not win, and it did not even ask for an understanding of the economic situation in Croatia the 100 days that have been addressed whenever the new government is formed, and this may be the best fact that we have already passed laws at the constitutive session. Perhaps it is best to mention a package of tax laws which are also a mirror of the economic policy of this government. Likewise, Mr. Vice President, you have also been in the election campaign, but before that, you have talked about new security challenges for our country, probably considering the globalising processes that take place in Europe and the world. That's why we've already seen these days that the government has taken steps to do so. I think that's one of the important issues today in the Republic of Croatia, of course, along with these economic situations in the country, our country's economic policy, but I would like to hear from you, did something be done under the new National Security and Homeland Security Strategy, and when will we have these proposals in the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18315	The Honorable Minister and Vice-President Damir Krsticevic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18316	Dear Representative Milinovic, thank you very much for asking. Honorable MPs, MPs, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister. This government of Plenkovic's Government what you said to the system of national security, we want to deal with it systematically. It is clear that the quality of life in Croatia, that this is a priority, but it is very important that our people in our Croatia always feel safe. And in this part of the system, we have already established the coordination of the home security system and Croatian defenders through the Rules of Procedure of the Government, so we want to import institutionally all the institutions that deal with security. Another very important thing we also brought to the second cabinet session, as you said, we formed two committees. One is the National Security Strategy Committee, the other is related to the creation of the National Security System Act. Beyond that, what's very important, I as vice-president minister am to form a team, you know, quality people, you know that I've also taken counselors, so these are the people of General Gotovina, General Repinco, Brigadier Kozul, Brigadier of the Slashlebrke, these are the people of the Homeland War who have great knowledge, abilities. They were building a system of our national security, and we need them today to make our security system good. And the next very important thing, this commission has already begun its work. On Monday we had a session at the Croatian Military School, that session was very good, we included very many people. We included our predecessors who dealt with the issue, so there was Mr. Klisovic, Mr. Pierre, and we also invited the chairman of the Assembly Committee on Defence of Mr. Dragovan, president of the National Security Committee, and we invited many professors, people who do the job. For us, national security must be superseded. I believe that we need a consensus on this issue, I think it is a question of both positions and opposition and I believe that, through one process by spring, by 6 months, we will make this document, a national security strategy, a law on the home security system needed by Croatia at this time. And I believe that the Croatian Parliament will be in a position to discuss and hope to adopt it in the 6th, 7th month of 2017. What is important, so our fundamental goal is to redefine the system of national security right through the National Security Strategy, through the Law on the Homeland Security System that we can deal with as we see these complex security threats, risks in one systematic, modern way, that is our responsibility, that is the responsibility of this government and I believe that through that part that our people in our Croatia will certainly feel safe and we need a safe society and all of this is in some way a strong, strong, proud, proud Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18317	Thank you. Dear Representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18318	Thank you very much, I am pleased that the Government takes care of national security in this way, it should not be forgotten that we are a tourist country and that national or homeland security is important for us as a tourist country and, of course, it is important for the development of the investment climate in the Republic of Croatia. So the new one, in fact, is a migrant crisis that is clearly affecting foreign political entities, within political entities. It should also not be forgotten that we are a country in an environment of countries that also have certain within political instability. And I am pleased with your response, and I am pleased that the new National Security Strategy will see almost the light of day in this House. And this is another one, so besides those laws that we passed at the constitutional session, and this is another proof that this government is ready for the helm of the Croatian state and that it does not need any 100 days and that in the first days of its vote here it is ready to pass those laws that are important for the national security of this country but also essential for the investment climate and economic investment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18319	Thank you. The next question will be asked by distinguished MP Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18320	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister, members and members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and colleagues. The lot has decreed that today's final question be asked by me and I will refer it to the Minister of Culture, Mrs. Nina Obulen. Dear Madam Minister, in a report by the OSCE on hate crimes in the Republic of Croatia for 2015, in addition to the reported increase in hate crime cases compared to the previous year with a wave against LGBT persons and members of the Roma national minority, it is recommended that, I quote: "... for the Republic of Croatia, it is useful to encourage victims to report hate crimes and to consider strengthening cooperation with civil society in this context." A rise in threats and violence against journalists in the Republic of Croatia has also been reported, which is why the SDP Representatives' Club has recently requested to hold a thematic session of the Media Committee, it will now be held on Friday. The common denominator of all these events is hate speech. For the past few years, we have seen the rise and spread of hate speech through social networks, commentary below articles on media web portals and shows such as Bujica on Z1 TV and on HRT. We have also witnessed attacks on institutions that enforce laws and measures to suppress hate speech as well as those who lead them. At the beginning of this year, the presidents of the Council for Electronic Media Mirjana Rakic, the leader of the recently mentioned show followed by the then-president of the Parliament and several thousand people who cried "For the House Ready" were handed a spoon with a coke. My question to you is, given your authority, what are you planning to do to suppress hate speech in the media and public communication, and how do you plan to contribute to reducing the number of hate crimes primarily against journalists, national minorities and LGBT persons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18321	The Honorable Minister Nina Obuljen Koržinek will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18322	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear sir, I thank you for your question, of course I can answer in the part where your question concerns the regulation in which the Ministry of Culture has jurisdiction and your question goes much wider than that and I think we are all aware of that. So, as far as media legislation itself is concerned, as you know in the Republic of Croatia, we have decided to introduce such a system that we have a regulatory body, therefore an independent regulator that controls the primary electronic media. You are also likely to know that at the moment of the revision, the debate on the revision of the Audiovisual Media Services Directive is under way, and among other things, one of the topics discussed is precisely a question and hate speech but also not at all appropriate comments that become a dominant way of expressing themselves especially on social media, which escape the classical concept of editorial responsibility. We also face this problem in Croatia. The Council for Electronic Media, as far as I know in many situations, has reacted to this. The second issue is supervision of such concepts in the printed media. As you know during 2010, 2011 was an initiative, even established by the Media Council, which, as only a regulatory body, should have monitored such phenomena in media that are not electronic media coming out of the electronic media law, however, as far as I am aware, that media council has never lived. Anyway, it's a serious problem, it's a big problem, it's not just a Croatian problem. I have already announced several times that, as part of the debate on amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Media or the adoption of a new law, we will certainly open this issue because it will be subject to harmonisation with the Directive. As far as I know tomorrow, a thematic session will be held in the Croatian Parliament on the subject and issues of hate speech, but at all the conditions related to freedom of expression with the position of journalists. We will also be there as representatives of the Ministry of Culture, we will listen carefully to proposals that will be presented and it is certainly a great responsibility on all of us who act in public space, regardless of whether we are representatives of the Government, parliamentary representatives, journalists and others who perform in public space to make sure that all of us do not encourage such expression and that we all react together in a spot and principled manner regardless of who and on which side they come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18323	Thank you. Dear Representative Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18324	Thank you. I thank you for your response, Madam Minister. I'm pleased with your answer for now. I see you recognize the importance of public communication free of hate response. I also see that you recognize that all public communication actors really all public communication actors have and share one responsibility so that they can be free from hate speech. Because ultimately, such free from hatred of public communication is actually a guarantee of democracy. Also, here I would only eventually want to apostrophe that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia and then especially minority groups like I said national minorities, or LGBT persons look at you all, according to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and she in this work in one piece and you as culture ministers to be their protectors in the work for which you are individually responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18325	Thank you very much. A colleague and fellow MPs have thus been currently completed in the morning. I thank the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, all the ministers and you, of course, for your participation. I'm setting a break until 3:00 p.m. when we keep working on the agenda how you got it. Thank you very much. It's a 13,50 o'clock meeting. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] There's a few of us here, but hopefully the rest of us will come orni, and we're going to the first point as we announced, which is one. Final draft law confirming the Protocol under the North Atlantic Accession Treaty of Montenegro, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 31. The proposed act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to you in boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Foreign Policy. You received their reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign and European Affairs Minister Ivo Stier, Davo Ivo Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18327	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. The Republic of Croatia has continuously supported Montenegro's aspirations to join NATO. That aspirations was shown by Montenegro in 2006 when it launched an action plan for membership. Two key moments on the road were on December 2nd 2015 when the North Atlantic Alliance decided to call on Montenegro to join NATO. This is a decision, of course, taken by consensus, which Croatia also gave its consent to, and on 19 May 2016, when the Protocol on Montenegro's accession to NATO was signed. So, those positions were also supported by the Government of the Left Centre, later the Government of the right-wing government of Tihomir Oreshkovic had also made a decision to refer this bill to confirm Montenegro's accession to the North Atlantic Alliance and was intended to make Croatia one of the first member states to ratify Montenegro's accession to NATO. However, due to the disbanding of the parliament, this did not happen before summer, so the new government has made a decision and today you have before you this bill or ratification if you want Montenegro to join NATO. This continued support is also in the national interest of the Republic of Croatia. The continuation of NATO enlargement is of paramount importance for the long-term political security stabilisation of Southeast Europe, which is, of course, in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. In addition, if we look at the geostrategic situation, I must point out here that by entering Montenegro into NATO, then the Adriatic Sea becomes fully protected by the coasts of NATO allies, or if you want to look at the Adriatic in a different way, there will be no doubt either possible nor potentially a polygon for measuring the forces of some other forces. Furthermore, as we know the process of joining NATO, although it is formally and legally separate from European integration, there are, however, many points of contact here. The fact is that most of the countries that joined the NATO alliance after the fall of the Berlin Wall also set off through the EU. It's not the case for all the countries. Even in Southeast Europe, not all countries that have aspirations or are candidates for the EU are also aspirants for NATO. However, there is one coincidence that must also be highlighted, given that both organisations insist on respecting democratic standards and the rule of law, which is something that the Republic of Croatia wants to promote especially in Southeast Europe. In addition, Montenegro's NATO entry is seen as a chance for further development of our and economic relations, bilateral. Montenegro is one of the countries with which the Republic of Croatia is achieving a surplus and wants to further deepen economic co-operation. It also understands cooperation on the security plan, including on the defence plan. I must point out here that 17 soldiers of Montenegro are currently in Afghanistan in the Croatian contingent, so under Croatian command. NATO enlargement through Montenegro's entry into one also confirms the open door policy of NATO's alliances and something that we want to point out on this occasion that it is extremely important, especially for other aspirants, here I think primarily of the perspective of joining NATO BiH, which we have repeatedly pointed out to be one of the priorities of our foreign and security policy, as is of course Macedonia's aspirations. NATO's enlargement to Montenegro also shows that NATO remains a relevant factor especially in these areas, and Croatia wants to contribute by ratifying Montenegro's entry into NATO. For all these reasons, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is proposing to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of Protocols under the North Atlantic Accession Treaty of Montenegro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18328	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. President of the Committee on Foreign Policy, Honorable Representative Miro Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18329	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll be brief. Dear colleagues and colleagues. So the Committee on Foreign Policy has had a meeting, has its own opinions that we have given to you, and the Republic of Croatia strongly supports the further expansion of NATO's alliance, because it directly strengthens and strengthens its own security. In this respect, Croatia also supports Montenegro's membership in NATO, which directly contributes to strengthening the security and stability of its neighbourhood, I mean the Southeast Europe area. Therefore, the Committee on Foreign Policy proposes to the Croatian Parliament to pass a Protocol Confirmation Act under the North Atlantic Accession Treaty of Montenegro. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18330	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. For the first debate on behalf of the Living Wall's Club, the esteemed representative Ivan Vilibor Sincic appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18331	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. I would like to start by saying, I had the chance to be in Montenegro recently, it was a symbolic date as they say on October 5th when Milosevic was brought down in Serbia a 15-year-old ago. At the same time, it was the last week before the October 16th parliamentary elections. I went there to help Montenegro, to support Montenegro, here as the minister says, but I did not go to support those who were supported by the minister. Namely, let us remember, a brief look at history, who has ruled Montenegro for the past 27 years, whether directly as prime minister, whether from behind as the ruling DPS party's president, the Democratic Party of Socialists, it is fellows and colleagues Milosevic's student, small Milosevic Milo Djukanovic and his assistant, Brano Micunovic, in fact we Montenegrins don't even know who the government is there, whether it's Djukanovic from both power or it's Micunovic from the shadows. I would like to point out that the situation in Montenegro, what democratic standards are in Montenegro, and I would like to remind you that it is extremely insidious that a referendum on NATO entry, various legal machinations, has not been held in Croatia either, has been avoided. In the end, everything comes down to this Assembly, which is more or less composed of parties to the same system, especially at that time which thinks of such issues alike or the same. The same thing happened, colleagues and fellow MPs in Montenegro. Djukanovic, in his long-standing rule of law, has turned out to be the end of the people's will, not to be a referendum. We don't know what the results will be in the referendum. They tell me from different parties while I was a citizen mostly against joining NATO, but what we certainly know is that 84% of the people in Montenegro are in favour of a referendum. So... the peoples are 84% and in the referendum we'll see what the will of the people is. The same thing that was done here in Croatia, the same thing is now being done in Montenegro and then those who are calling for democracy, the rule of law, strengthening institutions etc., etc. agree to such a harsh violation of the will of the people. Let us remember the Lisbon Agreement that was removed from the referendum domain when it was seen to be losing there, to remember Croatia's campaign for the EU that actually didn't exist, it was a simple propaganda of the public discourse, almost there was none. But to continue with that pattern specifically in Montenegro. Milo Djukanovic is Montenegro's seven-time prime minister, he captured the country, he is essentially ladies and gentlemen of organised crime leader, that is man, and Croatia supports him by which the Italian court in 2004 characterised him as a dangerous international criminal for whom the arrest was sought. Croatia supports a man whose name was first among the 15 suspects of a mafia association. Croatia supports a politician for whom the longtime head of the Italian Mafia agency Ottaviano Del Turco said without Djukanovic there would be no Prudence, the most powerful, the richest and most dangerous smuggler in the Mediterranean. On the other hand...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18332	Comrade Sincic, I must interrupt you, I ask you to choose your words because you are violating the Rules of Procedure Namely article 240, whatever you think of someone, or I think of someone [[Intruder Sincic: Dear...]] Article 240 makes it very clear that foreign countries and their representatives cannot be offended [[Intruder Sincic: This is a quote by the esteemed Vice President.]] So no matter what you think you might be right, you may be wrong, whatever I think, whatever the court thinks of some kind of, etc., you can't say that, so I have to warn you about that. [[Intruder Sincic: That is the opinion of the court.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18333	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament. I was just quoting the opinion of the Italian boss for the fight against the mob. Maybe we can't even use the word mob, but if it's part of the institution's name, it doesn't matter, I'm moving on. Croatia also hereby supports the man and the furniture that has kidnapped institutions in which several families have been controlled by the country's first man. Our government supports the man who led the country to be there in Montenegro in the last few months on the streets of cities in criminal executions killing dozens of people and far the most difficult situation in the port of Bar where the citizens of Montenegro are suffering in mob deals. I remind Montenegro only has 650 thousand inhabitants. So the situation there today is worse than when the accounts started here at the time of Sanader, when Ivana Hodak was killed, when Ivo Pukanic was killed. Now, Ivo Pukanić, who does ladies and gentlemen connect to this murder? It's just organized crime from Montenegro, just mentioned Bran Mycinovic. Furthermore, we support a man whose most loyal friend, mentioned Brano Micinovic in front of 10 people, who knows the whole of Montenegro, killed a man and no one dared testify, no institution responded, filed charges, something else, the basic foundation of a democratic society, there is no such thing. Djukanovic and his clicks are held by institutions and there is simply no reaction. We support the man who built the most monstrous machine to build elections in Europe. There, thousands and thousands of deaths vote, people are being blackmailed and employees of the public administration and must vote for the ruling party according to the directive. We support a leader who on election day ladies and gentlemen on October 16th modeled North Korea shut down the viber app, shut down what's up app to intimidate the people and prevent the eruption of dissatisfaction by modeling North Korea. These should be among some of the high standards of NATO, the European Union, which we need in such clubs. We support a man who pushes the country into NATO despite 84% of citizens wanting a referendum. I remind you once again, it is now a delicate situation in Montenegro, it is forming power, it is likely to again, because we have a mandater the same click to inherit power in Montenegro which is a tragedy. And right now, at this point, we are giving such a policy of trickery even more support by voting this kind of document. Namely, the opposition has won which mandate more than the authorities, Djukanovic won 36 seats with the DPS, opposition 39 but minorities rule, and Djukanovic is likely to form power again, always somehow buy them, promise them something. I would like to appeal this way to the Croatian citizens' initiative representing the Croats in Montenegro, which won one mandate not to support Milo Djukanovic and his regime, after all I have said I think it is clear why, not to support him and thus not to contribute to the rest of this deep political crisis, the deep absence of the rule of law in Montenegro that lasts for nearly 3 decades. When I was on a trip to Montenegro, I had the opportunity to be at the presentation of a book by my friend and civil activist Mark Milačić who wrote the book "Why Milo is not important", he and such young people who have known nothing more than Mile Djukanovic and his regime, 30 years older and the government, the team and such people I went there to support both the team and such people, and such people should give support to Montenegro and not to those who bombed Dubrovnik and who have changed their opinions so many times as when they were fit to stay in power. Milo Djukanovic was once the right hand of Milosevic when it was to survive, today when it is due to survive he goes to NATO, he is suddenly for the European Union. And that's not the only thing, you want the issue of home policy? Whatever you want. He changed his mind so many times that it was better for him at some point. An unworthy man, a man who himself admitted to taking part, or that his authority was involved in the smuggling of cigarettes to Italy and to Europe to the north, etc. I call once again on Croatia's citizens' initiative not to participate in this kind of government, to all stand together for a referendum, which is a minimum of civil standard. Make it an initiative against NATO defeated in a referendum, that's the will of the people, that's legitimate. However, insidious to avoid and distort the will of the people is not like one European country. And I can't support it at all, and I'm not going to support this initiative with everything else I think about NATO that I'm not going to talk about here right now because I've said it so many times. Therefore, my conscience does not allow me colleagues and colleagues to support this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18334	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused several replicas, but I'm just going to use something to refer to myself this morning. You see, if we were to strictly stick to the subject then half of what you said, I shouldn't be the one to tell you here. And that's why I'm going back to what we said in the morning that in this House we have quite one width in terms of freedom of speech. I don't think that's too bad until we insult others. But the first one came to the line, the esteemed representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18335	Comrade Sincic, I agree that the referendum is the form on which people should decide and, of course, before entering the EU itself and in the referendum itself that a precedent has really been made in Croatia that has been taken off from 50% of the date plus one vote that has returned that one man can come out and that would be appreciated. However, also around NATO, but indeed the Homeland War, when the Croatian state took place, meant new democratic processes and thus had a declaration of the Homeland War in which this Parliament said in 2000 during Racan's government, where all parliamentary representatives in this House together voted in a declaration saying that the Homeland War is a free and fair war and the right of the Croatian people to self-determination. Indeed they did not deserve Croatian defenders to walk the countries of the neighbouring former Republic of Yugoslavia and to muddle the Homeland War, the victim of Vukovar, the Storm that it meant... criminally, not who we say but that it was an ethical cleansing. So these aren't nice things and don't blame anyone for the right to democracy, but that's how Croatian interests are threatened. So with this first piece I agree with but with this second one where the mud is the Croatian soldier who's in honorable and legitimate operations and that came from your party, I'm sorry, I'm humiliated by what we have to say. It is not good in other countries in front of the extreme right-wing leaders of the Serbian occupation in these areas, large-serb policies to lower the Homeland War to the level and the Croatian state to the bottom. In the first part, I agree, there is little to be seen in the second and to preserve the dignity and survival of the Croatian state, which was created and based on community and forces... Ustasha in the 91st year, and we need this unity today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18336	Thank you. The esteemed Ivan Willibor Sincic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18337	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Bulj, I have never said anything against a Croatian soldier. My father was a Croatian soldier in the Homeland War. The storm was a legitimate military operation that made Croatia territorial sovereignty. I've fenced myself from the statements you're referring to and the party's fenced. Therefore, we must in the context of this topic, you mentioned the democratisation of Montenegro, Montenegro did not democratisation it remained in the Stone Age, Milosevic, even before the Milosevic era. I didn't know that NATO and the EU can go dictatorships. And I certainly won't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18338	The next replica is the esteemed representative Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18339	Thank you, Mr. President. In your presentation, you said that by adopting this law, Croatia would support Milosevic's students, Mr Djukanovic and a whole series of other politicians in Montenegro. But I want to tell you that by ratifying this law, Montenegro will join NATO rather than Mr Djukanovic. Also, I want to tell you that if we interfered with internal political relations and gave unprincipled support to one of the politicians in the post-election period so that we could be accused of interfering as a state in our neighbour's internal affairs, which is certainly not the goal. What we will do by ratifying this law as a Parliament will give support not to Djukanovic as a politician but to the Montenegrin state and to the Montenegrin people and to its aspirations to ensure a maximum level of security and a framework for further democratic development. At the same time, we will ensure an external political Croatian goal, which is to expand the area of stability in which the alliance, the NATO Alliance, operates from our borders further. Montenegro has been called on to join NATO as soon as NATO has assessed it has met all the necessary criteria and is able to act as members and contribute to the fundamental goal of the alliance, which is the security of Euro-Atlantic space. I believe that by joining NATO, Montenegro will be under even greater pressure to bring various social deviations as you mentioned corruption or organised crime to order. These deviations are present in all Western societies and throughout the world. They are neither exclusive nor Montenegro nor any other state. That is why I see your exposure more as just pressure for Montenegro to bring its functioning to the standard we want, so developed democracy as soon as possible and less as it condemns individual politicians.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18340	Thank you. The esteemed representative Ivan Vilibor Sincic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18341	Thank you, Vice President. My friend here, you were talking about democratisation. I repeat, Montenegro did not go that way. Milo Djukanovic is holding in the hands of the entire country, holding all the institutions there through his family, through families with which he is connected interestingly. He knows if he loses power tomorrow he'll have a sponge waiting for him. You know what a sponge is? The sponge is the Montenegrin equivalent to our Remetic. Therefore, if Milo Djukanovic, with his click, forced the public for so long, let us now not force them again without a referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18342	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branimir Bunjc, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18343	Thank you, Chairman, colleague Sincic. You're absolutely right. Therefore, Croatia should not support joining NATO an alliance of countries that have failed to meet high democratic standards, especially those of authentic furniture, which, for example, took part in the bombing of Dubrovnik. Now we have a NATO alliance coming here as our friend, and in fact it's the same NATO alliance of nine hundred ninety-nine and some threatened Croatia that Croatia's military will bomb if Banja Luka won, and if Croatia won Banja Luka and took further action in Bosnia and Herzegovina there would be no Dayton Bosnia, neither would this demographic disaster of the Croatian people in BiH. Therefore, the US and NATO do not protect the interests of the Croatian people. They now want to simply put us all under their control that we serve their interests, not the interests of the authentic survival of the Croatian people, sovereignty and independence. Therefore, even if by any chance the regime in Montenegro is democratic and that it meets some high standards is not in the interest of us, and we believe it is not wise to recommend that anyone else enter the NATO alliance. We must lead the policy, namely independence, i.e. equality towards the United States and Russia and other powers of China in the same way. Croatia must be positioned as a permanent neutral country which therefore implements certain protectionism in the sense that the people could, the Croatian people, survive in the long term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18344	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Ivan Vilibor Sincic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18345	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, I support your debate. This was about the entry of Montenegro into NATO now starting some democratisation, and there will not be any democratisation in Croatia after entering NATO, nor have there been any significant shifts in the functioning of institutions after entering the EU, although there has been promised no significant or any changes in the judiciary, state property management, the functioning of the financial system and all these other deviations that I listen to in agriculture, human rights and all these committees that I attend. Therefore, to promise someone that coming in and going in somewhere that something will not improve. The people of Montenegro must deal alone with crime in their country, corruption in their institutions, such as the Croatian people must deal alone with non-functioning, nepotism, clientelism in their institutions. No Europe or NATO will solve it for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18346	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed representative Steve Cule. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18347	Dear President, ah, young esteemed colleague, what shall I ask you. I see you're talking from NATO, I see you're talking about Montenegro, the endangered people of Montenegro by Mile Djukanovic. I guess that people are known for their humanity and heroism, able to choose for themselves a leader who will represent them and who will lead them both to Europe and NATO. There's only one thing that bothers me. I'm familiar with their... The attack on Dubrovnik, their participation in the Homeland War as they destroyed the Old Town and everything else and Moruna and the rest of the sites of our Croatian defenders where they were in their playmates. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it is also known the influence of the Yugoslav army in that Montenegro through the type of JNA officer, the Serbs who led the main game there. But again, I'm drawn to another thing by you, too, so I don't know how to prevent Montenegro from entering NATO and favoring the Russian, Putin and others. Where does that lead? It's in some way of your interest. After all, you are a Croatian representative in our Parliament, not Montenegrin, nor your colleague who goes there to Putin's listeners. So answer it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18348	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Ivan Vilibor Sincic will answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18349	Thank you, Vice President. We, as individuals, do not represent pro-American politics, nor do we represent pro-American politics. I didn't visit anyone who propagated Russian politics. You're usually accused when someone isn't for NATO that he's a Russian spy. How many times have our citizens been accused if they're not for something or for someone that they're spies from the other. Thus, such statements are not correct. I'm afraid you fell under the influence of Djukanovic's propaganda. Here I tell you anyone I would cooperate with must be a man who's okay, who looks first and foremost patriotic on his country, on his people and on the interests of that population in that space as we look at it and try to expand that idea. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18350	Thank you very much. Next, on behalf of Cuba, SDP MP Josko Klisovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18351	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I welcome the Minister of Foreign and European Affairs of Mr Davor Ivo Stier who is here and came himself to the Croatian Parliament to present this law, which is a nice practice when the minister actually appears. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The SDP club will support ratification of Montenegro's NATO accession protocol. The reasons for this were contained in the SDP's continued policy of supporting NATO and EU enlargement to Southeast Europe, following the requirements of membership candidates. Milanovic's coalition government has actively contributed to this foreign policy goal, establishing the concept of a Euro-Atlantic partnership with the Southeast European countries. Through this partnership, we have offered political, technical and development assistance to this region on the path of reform and meeting the conditions for membership in Euro-Atlantic associations, and we have established a legal framework and cooperation through Euro-Atlantic partnership with each of the countries of South-Eastern Europe. The deal is yet to be concluded with BiH for its internal political reasons, and the country was first proposed. Until there is a sincere agreement in that country on the country's Euro-Atlantic future among the three constituent nations, the Euro-Atlantic Partnership Agreement with Croatia will remain only a proposal and a dead letter on paper. The SDP and its government have joined the region in Euro-Atlantic issues with positions of partnership we have offered forms and concrete cooperation measures and have left partners to choose what they are interested in and what kind of assistance they offer. We weren't setting ourselves up as mentors, as tutors or protectors, we weren't trying to impose ourselves as leaders, we were already seeking partner status. We have built Croatia's reputation as a constructive and reliable partner in both the Balkans and the EU and NATO. We were aware that any attempt to impose leadership would result in resistance and would be interpreted as an attempt to dominate the rest of this region, and historical experience taught us how all attempts to dominate one nation or state over another end in this space. There are indications that the HDZ government continues our path and the SDP club welcomes it. This is a good way to strengthen the country's international influence and position, and our country's reputation. We only hope that this HDZ government will resist the temptations of micro-management of political processes in some neighbouring countries. Ladies and gentlemen, Montenegro's accession to NATO contributes to the realization of one of the goals of Croatian foreign policy, which is to expand stability space in Southeast Europe, as well as to strengthen the Euro-Atlantic values of freedom, respect for human rights and the rule of law, and the peaceful resolution of conflict. Croatia is becoming safer by joining every new member of Southeast Europe to NATO and the EU. We heard from the minister said the Adriatic will become a de facto Allied sea by joining Montenegro. The assumptions for the overall democratic and economic development of this region are becoming stronger by joining the EU and NATO. Our country's bilateral relations are being given added incentive, while resolving open issues is an additional value framework within which it needs to be addressed. Croatia has always given active support to Montenegro for joining NATO and the EU. We designed a whole series of concrete programmes and assistance measures for Montenegro on its Euro-Atlantic path and implemented them jointly. Such a policy in its results that will culminate in receiving Montenegro into NATO, and then we believe in the EU soon, we consider a good role in mutual trust and good intentions without which there is no quality resolution of open bilateral issues. And on open bilateral issues, the government must take special care. With Montenegro we have worked well together in NATO's context so far, we have worked intensively in the framework of the US-Adriatic Charter, and Montenegro has joined the Croatian contingent in NATO on a determined support mission in Afghanistan. We heard from the minister also 17 Montenegrin soldiers, together with members of the Croatian army, successfully carry out their tasks in training and consulting Afghan security forces. We hope for just as good co-operation as when Montenegro formally joins NATO. And I want to repeat once again that Montenegro's support for NATO's entry is not to support any social deviation that may exist in that country or any other politician of the country, but rather the aspirations of the people to live in a more secure and stable state than it currently is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18352	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. The first is the distinguished representative Branimir Bunjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18353	So I'm disgusted by Mr. Klisovic's advance, I don't know whose interest you work in, Mr. Klisovic, but you certainly don't work in the interest of the Croatian people. You have been talking for the past two years that the TTIP contract is the most transparent contract everyone has ever seen, and even small children know it's the biggest conspiracy ever created in the history of bargaining and cooperation. So no one saw what it says in the TTIP, not even those who negotiate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18354	Comrade Bunjac, now you've really gone a little too far on the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18355	So the same way that you represented the American interests of the TTIP contract, so now you're salting our minds about how we should join NATO because we're little children who need to take hands and lead to be safe here, they're going to hold my hand, Donald Trump, and then I'm going to feel safe because I wouldn't know how to live without him. Therefore, I want to expose these lobbyist services to the Croatian people because they are not in the interest of the Croatian people. Because they are not in the interest of the Croatian people and I'm just waiting for you to come forward next time because otherwise you never say that you support the occupation of this country again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18356	Comrade Bunjac, I just need to draw your attention to that Croatia is a member of NATO. Here's my colleague Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18357	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You took the word out of my hand, so I do not assure anyone that Croatia should join NATO because Croatia is a NATO member. And unfortunately, my colleague, you slept through it as well as obviously many other debates in which I participated. TTIP is not a topic here, but if you had any interest in TTIP, you could see all relevant information on the European Commission's website. If you really have an interest, you could go to the American Embassy and take a look at the TTIP material in one room. So this kind of demagogy that you're presenting here and the insult that you're making in this case and in my account, I think they're completely immaterial and below the level of debate in this House. Neither am I a lobbyist of America, and I am a representative of the Croatian people, at least of those citizens who, if nothing else preferentially voted for me, can honor that. And to make some accusations without any evidence, you know it's a felony yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18358	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18359	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we all know who is the man who runs Montenegro, his name is Milo Djukanovic, a man who has collaborated with Slobodan Milosevic in aggression against our country. This policy of aggression is well known to Cavtat and Konaval residents who lived under the occupation of the County of Dubrovnik and the inhabitants of Dubrovnik. After one aggression, aggression on our homeland, Milo Djukanovic continues his bloody brew and now, unlike the great Serbian idea, supports NATO's idea, an idea that comes from Washington, which, unlike the great Serbian idea, does not want to rule only parts of BiH and Croatia, but wants to rule the whole world by calling this plan and the programme a plan for peace and stability. The SDP gentleman actually turns the public's mind-set from the notorious fact that he can't fight for peace and that those who work so-called. preventative wars, or war to establish peace, actually use all possible propaganda against humans to convince them that war is peace, that evil is good, that truth is a lie, etc. So it's a bloody parade that, unfortunately, NATO is working all over the world and we see soon, and Montenegro is joining that bloody brew again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18360	Thank you very much. The next one will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the esteemed representative Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18361	Honorable Vice President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We have before us this proposal for a bill to confirm the protocol in the North Atlantic Treaty on Montenegro's accession. First of all, I would say one problem that I have with this and these similar points of the agenda where there is a bill that goes according to the first and second readings with amendments, that is to say, they are adopted by an urgent procedure with a message that amendments can be made and we know that they cannot be given amendments to these things because they are either taken or left. I mean, this is not by the nature of things, these are not laws, these are decisions on ratification of contracts or protocols. Ratification already as a legal act means an indication that the signed international contract is accepted as a state binding. Therefore, it should be considered that this desire for the amount of legislation we absorb during our term of office should simply be reduced. As for only this North Atlantic Treaty, however, it should be recalled that it was signed by 28 members, that Montenegro would be the 29th member. When... All 28 members have accepted, and of these 28, 22 EU member states and 4 are not from Europe from Albania, Iceland, Norway and Turkey, and are outside members, or outside Europe, Canada and the United States. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The role, in order to understand why these discussions here and perhaps some shifts in which NATO's emphasis is on, has been changing through the role of NATO during the '50s when it was formed at least three times. In the '50s it was formed as a military alliance of the West as a countermeasure, as a pandan of the Warsaw Treaty, so the emphasis was primarily on the military alliance. In the 1990s, with the collapse of the Warsaw Pact and the communist system in Europe, NATO defines a new strategy as grand collective security and extends its sphere of influence on post-communist space. And after 9.11. that concept changes to collective defence without borders, that is, NATO is beginning to deal with other risks that threaten international order and security. Thus, the role of NATO is changing, and NATO is becoming more and more a political organisation, gaining this political dimension, and the NATO Parliamentary Assembly plays a very important role in this. The NATO Parliamentary Assembly also gathers non-NATO members so that observers and supporters of NATO's accession are from countries such as Armenia, Azerbaijan, BIH, Macedonia, Serbia, Israel, Palestinian organisations. I listed only these precisely to show that all these countries have unresolved problems with each other and that they are even very difficult to communicate with each other. The Croatian Parliament's delegation to the parliamentary assembly came back yesterday from this annual assembly, the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Istanbul, which was held there, and we saw how much tension there was between Armenia and Azerbaijan, Armenia and Turkey, among some other countries, but also the effort to reach political solutions, not to go into military conflicts and from the platform to respect the fundamental values of democracy, human rights, rule of law, etc. Here is an illustrative example of what happened these days and at the parliamentary assembly in relation to NATO members, and these associated NATO members towards Turkey, and Turkish politics. Most of the countries, i.e. NATO as an institution, have condemned the violent collapse, i.e. the military coup that was attempted, or failed on 15 June 2016, but also most of the countries have condemned the current Turkish government's reactions to the purses, i.e. dealing with members or employees of state institutions, faculty teachers, scientists, media etc., MPs in Parliament. Thus, in such a relationship with Turkey, it was said that they would still have to consider and respect these remarks coming from NATO member states at this forum. As far as Montenegro's NATO accession is concerned, it is a clear matter that we will support it precisely for these security reasons and for what the minister has exhibited here. But perhaps we could object to one thing, which is that in the past 10 years since Montenegro's international recognition since 2006, it has not been resolved in that period to definitely fix the border between Croatia and Montenegro because, in my opinion, this should be dealt with earlier so that Montenegro's admission to NATO, with this reception that Croatia and Montenegro do not have this bilateral, this bilateral problem. Perhaps it should also be taken as a lesson so that in this aspiration the BIH does not now enter into when it will be and with what effects to try these problems of Croatia and the BIH or agreement on a permanent solution, a constitutional solution to the stability of the BIH to do so before we discuss the entry of the BIH into NATO. Perhaps there is one more thing to say, today we live in a time when there is some power, when hybrid operations, information work, impact operations are in some way far more dangerous than military threats. This information of influence, information warfare threatens not only companies or political parties, or individuals, but simply raises the question of the individual countries and their order and we must be aware that the structure or organisation of NATO simply has no response to such threats. And in this sense, this concept of NATO that one umbrella that ensures security and peace in the international order or at least part of the international order is nevertheless limited range and influence, and therefore we must also take care of these other components of security that I hope we will define in this Homeland Security Strategy and recognise where they come from and the mechanisms that should be opposed. In short, the HDZ Club will support this ratification of this agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18362	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the distinguished representative John Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18363	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Reiner. Dear Representative Mr. Tudjman, we finally came to the conclusion that in your words from the protegory to the Warsaw Pact, NATO eventually changed its role and turned into a military alliance that essentially claimed that certain countries pose a threat to him or collective security attack them. And how does NATO do that? So in Afghanistan, the Taliban was backed by Americans, for 10 years they were brought to power. And once they've been brought to power then they say there's terrorists, let's bomb them, let's invade them. The same thing is done in Syria. So the West supports terrorists that by some case terrorists have overthrown the Syrian government and came to power, then NATO would bomb Syria and say the same thing if they were fighting terrorism. And see how NATO fights in Libya? So in Libya we had a stable government of Muammar al-Gaddafi. So what? NATO is coming, supporting terrorists, terrorists are taking over the entire country, killing US Ambassador Mr. Tudjman, the American ambassador. So what? You assure us that NATO's role is peaceful. So if you look at the war in Iraq that was built without the mandate of the UN Security Council, it means where America committed aggression. It is clear that it is America who holds the main word in NATO. If you look at what NATO has done in Libya, if you look at the monsters in Afghanistan, in fact, America as the main player in NATO has brought to power how you can have shame and tell us that NATO is spreading peace and security or I don't know that it is waging wars for peace, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18364	Thank you. The honourable representative Miroslav Tudjman will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18365	Comrade Pernar, the world is far more complex than you show it. First, I did not say that the military component of NATO is stronger than the opposite to strengthening NATO's political component. Secondly, the schedule, all of these conflicts that are happening in the world, were not necessarily with NATO forces but were also part of those operations mentioned by the UN operations. Some are EU operations, the third are NATO operations and the fourth are individual operations. It's a clear thing that we live in a world where we have from democratic to dictatorial regimes and merits for these dictatorial regimes you can't only attribute to one side especially factors outside. That these different political interests and conflicts of these political interests are present in the world is how far I've known since history it has been that way and will probably be so. This is about what methods humanity can agree to oppose such non-democratic regimes, or military forces, and military interventions. In this sense, NATO's principles are not principles that we can reject, but NATO is the EU or the UN, but are principles that we have to abide by otherwise we are outside the framework of a democratic world and democratic values.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18366	Thank you. And next on behalf of the HNS Club, HSU speak to the distinguished representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18367	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Montenegro wants to join NATO, so it started the project in 2006 and went through a whole series of reforms, through a whole series of changes meeting one possible number of conditions and requirements set before it for reforms by NATO members. Among other reforms, two of the last things requested by Montenegro is security service reform and strengthening public support. And precisely because of this additional requirement at the last NATO summit where it was decided that no invitation would be sent to her, but it was also decided that I must say, among other things, with the great engagement of Croatia, that the next NATO summit will not wait with a decision whether Montenegro has met the conditions or not, but will wait for the end of the year and hence, between the two NATO summits and there will be an assessment of the situation in Montenegro primarily in view of public support and the reform of security services, the security system. And if it is estimated to have met those conditions set out outside the regular NATO summit, it will decide to send an invitation. And since it's in that I'd say more demanding procedure, of course there are some cases that were and were still more complicated and demanding. It is Macedonia and I will return to it one such example. Given that in that I would say further to the demanding procedure, Montenegro has been assessed to meet the requirements of an invitation for NATO membership. It is true that Croatia has been pushing for Montenegro to go through all these reforms and transformations from the start and that when it meets the requirements, it will also receive an invitation for NATO membership. I would say that one of the reasons is precisely the experience of the 1990s, precisely that we try to organize one area of stability around the Adriatic, and if anything then it is a sign of progress that the two countries that were at war where one was part of the aggression on the other or in the first order of Dubrovnik and the Dubrovnik coast, that we have come from that stage today to the degree in which we can be part or part of the same security political alliance. If that's not a measure of progress, then I don't know what it is because I think that's what progress is, that's what Lincoln would say, "I beat my enemies, I turned them into my allies." So the possibility of making progress and getting out of hostilities to one stage where you can be part of the same security military alliance, I think it's really a shift. Croatia was among the founders of the Adriatic-Ionian region, so by establishing a European macro-region just as a project of cooperation in the Adriatic area, cooperation between states located on the Adriatic coasts, including Greece, therefore the Ionian component, because we believe that cooperation is what is a prerequisite for stability and lasting peace. By entering Montenegro into NATO, all states with the exception of BiH, which I hope will succeed in unblocking its path towards NATO membership and going through this transformation process that is needed to become a member, so all the states that go to the Adriatic coast become members of NATO. In this context, Montenegro is small but geopolitical in view of its position extremely important for peace and stability and preventing the conflict of major forces across the back of countries in this part of Europe. From that point of view, we believe that in the club HNS and HSU it is good for the stability and security of Montenegro, but certainly it is good for the stability of the entire Adriatic-Ionian region and the security of the entire Adriatic-Ionian region. I'd like to remind you of one fact that seems to be either not known or ignored here, which is that NATO has two key rules. One is the defence in case one of the members is attacked, and the other is that in any other NATO action, each member decides again for himself whether he wants to participate. Therefore, there is no one who can force any country to participate in any action if it assesses that it does not wish to participate for any reason other than the defence of another member as it has been attacked. Isolating is certainly worse than membership and if we want openness, democratisation, transparency then it is certainly important for any country, especially for a country that is in our immediate and direct neighborhood, to be a member of various international organisations based on values that we share, not to push it into isolation. I think it is one example that confirms the example of Macedonia. Macedonia was absolutely ready for NATO membership in 2008 and was expecting an invitation. For various bilateral reasons, this has not happened in much of the moment, and Macedonia has been deteriorating, including democratic standards, including its readiness for membership and including in maintaining those reforms that made it able and ready for membership in 2008. I think it's a big injustice for Macedonia but it's also an educational example because it shows that if one country is headed one way, you say these are the criteria, when you meet those criteria, you'll reach the goal, and then when the country meets those criteria, you say forgive us, but we've only been joking there are some other difficult circumstances, so now we won't accept you, it might be more dangerous than anything else in international relations. And for that reason, it would be devastating in this case to stop Montenegro on this road when it turned out that all the conditions set before it had been met. Croatia has open bilateral issues with Montenegro, absolutely, like almost all neighbouring countries and practically all neighbouring countries. But bilateral issues will be settled bilaterally. And they need to be dealt with bilaterally. Remember how we rebelled and felt injustice when our EU membership tried to address bilateral issues. So bilateral issues are important, they need to be addressed, not just the border and energy is, so there are a lot of important issues but these issues need to be addressed bilaterally. Both good and quality relations, I think I can only contribute to making these bilateral issues easier to resolve. Let me say two words about a referendum and a referendum on Montenegro's or Croatia's entry as far as this is concerned or any other country into NATO. NATO is absolutely, NATO membership is an absolute security issue. Security issue, security issues are direct, government and parliament's responsibility. That's why there's a representative democracy. From James Madison to Alexis de Tocqueville to modern democratic theorists, one of the biggest problems facing them is that in democratic frameworks, avoid terror or, as Tocqueville says, terror to the majority. In other words, in such situations, avoiding any populist leader getting up, making a major emotional campaign and ruining the long-term and no responsibility for the country's safety. The country's security is something that exists, among other things, not only of course but among other things why there is representative democracy. And the difference between representative and direct democracy is enormous, some believe that direct democracy is not democracy at all. And that's why the situations and topics that are put on the referendum are limited. As a result, the anarchistic concepts of the state, very popular in the 19th century, did not survive because they led to different types of terror, dictatorship and chaos. Therefore, when it comes to security issues it is yours, namely ours as members of parliament's responsibility. It is our task, it is the task of the executive authority and the task of representative authority. We too must bear responsibility for this, and we cannot, both in Croatia and Montenegro, and this responsibility cannot be transferred to anyone else, this responsibility must be borne by parliament. So then the Montenegrin parliament will vote against or vote for, however decided, so it is practically divided between the position and the opposition, we will see how they will vote but the responsibility is theirs. And that's why we're going to the election. I would say that by meeting the conditions, Montenegro has certainly not reached ideal levels of democracy and ideal levels of functioning of institutions, neither have we but moved. And we moved. As angry as we can be, as critical as we can be, we are also entering the European Union and all the transformations of the institutions that we have passed. Are we on an ideal level? We're a long way from that, and probably none of us will even live to be on the ideal level, but that doesn't mean we should stop. This does not mean that efforts should not be stopped, going towards a single orientation of functioning institutions, well-known standards and some of the fundamental values that these institutions advocate. For these or at least part of these reasons, the HNS and HSU club will certainly support confirming Montenegro's NATO entry protocol. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18368	Thank you very much. And your discussion has caused several replicas. He is the first to be respected representative of Zeljko Lackovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18369	Thank you, Vice President. So I'd like to replicate to an esteemed colleague in a few details, so we've been dealing completely, waiting for two big blocks with benefits that Montenegro will get and we haven't looked back at at all, we haven't said what an advantage it is and what a benefit they are to us except for security because we're going to be in the same military alliance. So, among other things, you said that Macedonia is a bad example, and I think that you have sinned in good neighbourly relations because Macedonia has an extraordinary economic growth and I think that a country from which we could learn very much in the reform of society and the political scene. So, what is the interest of the Republic of Croatia to support Montenegro? I'm interested in the issue of Prevlaka, 25 years is quite enough for bilateral agreements. The president says we have to deal with this deal, not the court. And now we should give Bianca support to Montenegro for joining NATO alliance. And I don't think so because there are a lot of questions from those situations that we're still pulling out of the Homeland War, that's a question of missing and responsible for war crimes. And the fact that they did as you said reforming the security services to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia means absolutely nothing. So when Trump won his opening speech, he said I'd represent American interests and we'd take care of the others. And don't forget that the political scene in Montenegro is divided, that Serbia does not support NATO to this end, that it is more prone to Russia to make tensions between America and Russia and that you can create with Montenegro in NATO a divided political scene that will be your political focus of new problems in the immediate neighbourhood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18370	Thank you. The distinguished representative Vesna Pusic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18371	... So, colleague, what are the advantages for Croatia? [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] I said clearly in my presentation, I am a great opponent, as I was in the case of Croatia myself and in principle, it was not only because of us, but also in principle that membership in organisations such as the EU or NATO is taking advantage of, or the fact that someone wants to become a member and that you are already a member of a member to resolve bilateral issues. I believe that we must have the strength, the ability and the capacity to deal with bilateral issues with our neighbours bilaterally. And as I thought it wasn't fair to us when we were entering the EU, I don't mean it in principle, so it's not fair to anyone else. I think we have the strength to deal with this bilaterally and we'll deal with it. We're not giving any Bianca support. Since practically 10 years, transformation has been followed, and we as a member, since we are a NATO member, so 10 years since Montenegro has expressed its wish, and since we are a member, we have been following closely what happens with meeting the conditions in Montenegro for NATO membership. Reforming security services there for Croatia means nothing, I get, let... disagree with you. On the contrary, I think that the fact that Croatian security and stability concern a country with which we border on land and sea is extremely interesting and important and relevant. And as far as Macedonia is concerned, everyone in Macedonia will tell you what I said, absolutely everyone. That they were unjustly stopped on that road and that most of their difficulties began with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18372	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branimir Bunjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18373	Thank you, Chairman. I'm sad to hear these pro-American speeches. I am sorry that Commissioner Pusic has succumbed, therefore, to her propaganda. We are talking about conversion here, so we have the case of Mile Djukanovic who was NATO's biggest opponent, and today he is the biggest supporter. I am sorry that one party bearing the name of the Croatian People's Party, which in the 19th century was a symbol of the fight against foreign influences today, is actually the main supporter of these foreign influences. Please tell us, Mrs Pusic, what are the security threats to Croatia to find out if they are Hungarians, Russians or spacers. So tell us why you doubt the vitality of the Croatian people that without NATO, the pact cannot secure itself because you did not at least study history so much that you learned that the Croatian people defeated the Turks, and the Hungarians, and the Germans, and the Italians, and it was not that long ago. Sam Napoleon Bonaparte said give me 100,000 Croatian soldiers and I will conquer the whole world. Look, that's not what I said. That's what the greatest warlord of all time said. And you insist on saying that the Croatian army is unable to defend itself and must therefore hand over its resources to NATO's alliance instead of itself strengthening its own military capacity, because without its own army and ultimately the famous book of Sun Cua does not have an independent and sovereign state. And Croatia must therefore create its own aviation, its own navy, its own machinery and all that is needed and not serve and leave it in the hands of some people who are not our friends, Mrs Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18374	Thank you. The distinguished representative Vesna Pusic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18375	I am surprised that you consider my speech to be pro-American, given that President Trump's newly elected voiced some doubts about US support for NATO, and that is one of the topics that is still coming and coming as a debate on security in Europe especially in Eastern Europe, this is not over and the question is what will happen in this respect. I'm certainly a representative of the idea that first you have to help yourself so someone else can help you. Therefore, with the giving of power of its own, even when excessively high opinion of its own forces, but one thing is certain as much as we invest in the military and defence of Croatia of 4.2 million people cannot have the effect of preventing, that is, preventing a military conflict that can have a NATO-like umbrella. So I would say that our ambition must be not to have wars, so we will win in them, but to prevent wars from ever coming again. And for that, a security umbrella like NATO is useful to us, usable and simply has that function. As far as the People's Party is concerned in history, let me remind you that its main feature was that in Croatia it was the first Enlightenment Party and a symbol of Enlightenment in Croatia. And by that tradition, we certainly admire each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18376	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18377	Thank you very much. Mrs. Pusic, you as former minister of known relations between Croatia and Montenegro and the problems Mr. Lackovic cited, so there is a problem of the border in that part that has not been solved and we do not know whether it will be solved. Surely you know better, they certainly have a tendency towards Croatian territory, because I know it down there, i.e. I was in the Homeland War down there, and I know how they wanted to alienate that area. And surely Croatia in all negotiations, whether about integration, whether by joining the EU or under NATO's hat should insist on protecting every inch of its country. Because it bled down there while, unfortunately, Milosevic's forces, along with the Chetniks at that time and unfortunately and with the Montenegrin forces, occupied the area together, and we know that they have committed major crimes. Of course, I would agree with you that democracy and Parliament have a part of what decisions should be made and responsibility. Because the referendum is also very important. I'm curious right now, you've been here a long time in politics, when you join the EU, we know that before that the number of percentages needed to come out means that at least half the voters plus one voter, 50 plus 1 come out. However, it was then reduced. For a simple change or decision at local level on a local board where a pillar of electricity or some minor municipal object should be placed 50 plus 1 voter. And this is a very important issue of EU accession either. And do you think that this was the country's decision by political elites who unanimously supported what the people did not support was the fact that 50% of voters did not come out, that somewhere below 30% of Croatian voters at that time supported EU accession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18378	Thank you. The distinguished representative Vesna Pusic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18379	Thank you very much. So, I've already said that Montenegro and I have more open issues than borders. We also have energy which is a very important issue. We have a lot of things in terms of what I know about food production, the issue of economic cooperation. However, it is my opinion that if we establish equal or very similar conditions, criteria, rules, laws, that we will handle this more easily than if we go in opposite directions. The more we differ according to the rules and legislation that we adhere to, the harder it will be to resolve open issues. The more we are alike, the more chance we have to solve it, and in my opinion, it's one argument precisely because if we want to settle it peacefully, and of course we want to resolve it peacefully that it is in our interest to function and that they operate by the rules that are more similar to those by which we function as members of these two major international organisations or alliances if you will. And as for the referendum, I said it was a very controversial issue in all the discussions on democracy. The change in the majority needed to go to the referendum even though we eventually carried out a referendum, but it did not change our government but changed HDZ's government that I may not have agreed with. But in this wheel, I think they were right. I think they were right about the topic most Croatian citizens thought was already over. We were on the subject for 12 years, and everyone thought it was almost just, and that was not why it was not a high motivation to go out, and in the end 66% of those who went out voted for it as in the election. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18380	Thank you very much. Now we'll move on to an individual debate. And the first one will be spoken by the esteemed representative Miro Kovac. Here you go. ... I didn't see it, but go ahead. [[You can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18381	Thank you. Well, I would like to say Mrs Pusic spoke about Montenegro wanting to join NATO, but Milo Djukanovic is the one who wants to join NATO. Most Montenegrin citizens, as many as 84% of all public opinion polls want the issue of NATO entry to be decided at the referendum, and 57% of the total number means people who would go to the referendum, or who are interested in the issue, 57% is against joining NATO and only 35% is for joining NATO. The thesis that Montenegro wants to join NATO, and it is obvious that the people are against it, and that is why Milo Djukanovic does not want to hold a referendum, in fact, leads us to the conclusion that in Montenegro, the people are not the ones who bear the authority but Milo Djukanovic. And even that Djukanovic has actually received fewer votes than the opposition, but with some cats through some minority representatives, some of whom have been elected by 0.35% of the votes, I say, to come to power. And the notion that by joining NATO, Montenegro will be protected from war or I don't know any dangers, so it is NATO that is seeking Montenegro's participation in military operations, it is NATO that is pushing the countries into an accident to prescribe war and that is actually imposing a state of despair, instability and unrest. I think only an uninformed person can represent the the thesis that NATO is spreading peace around the world and that Montenegro will be protected by every kind of NATO entry to say war when war is what NATO is really serving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18382	Thank you. Here will be answered by distinguished representative Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18383	Thank you very much. So I don't agree with NATO wanting war, but it doesn't even matter if I agree or you disagree or vice versa, the rules that rule in NATO are important, and if we want to talk about it, we need to know something about people, we can't really know anything. So Montenegro never has to participate in any NATO military operation unless a foreign force attacks a NATO member because each country re-determins every NATO operation whether it will participate or not. So that's what Montenegro will do when it becomes a member, as we do. Secondly, does he want or does he not want Montenegro to join NATO? First, the question is how will the government in Montenegro agree, but parliament will decide there is both the position and the opposition, so everyone will have to agree on it. And as for the citizens who want and don't want, we can't call in to tell me people I've heard from friends. NATO has set the condition, the requirement of formal support for more than 50% of Montenegrin citizens so that they could get an invitation at all, and they have questioned the support. So support has been examined, they paid agencies that were investigating the support... plus what I know is what are called all the agencies that have investigated and investigated support in Montenegro and on the basis of this, the basis of the results of these studies is then decided that Montenegro will be given an invitation including, of course, security services reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18384	Thank you very much. Here is finally an individual debate and distinguished representative Miro Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18385	... Just four thoughts, so I'll be concise. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] First thought, ratification, yes. Why? Well, that's what the foreign minister was talking about, it's in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. We are in the NATO Alliance and we are in the interest of a neighbouring country in this case of Montenegro entering the NATO alliance. Therefore, it makes sense for Croatia to join Montenegro NATO. We have open issues, we also have campers, which is why we also have a criterion in Montenegro's EU negotiations where the issue must be resolved because the issue of civilian war victims must be resolved, it is one of the transitional criteria. As far as the border is concerned, who will decide the border? The Croatian Parliament decides. So we sitting here or someone after us will eventually decide on the border between Croatia and Montenegro. So let's not mysteriously. Another important thought, concerning fellow SDP Klisovic, look, we had a chance and there was Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament now, and he was President of the Parliament, we had a chance to send a signal as a country and ratify that protocol in the previous assembly of the Croatian Parliament. Slovenians did it as others, they sent a signal, they made Hungarians, they used to be Iceland. So far I think it seems to me 13 countries have so ratified so before us Lithuania two weeks ago I think, so let's miss a chance on one issue that's important for us to show unity. I am sorry, Mr. Klisovic, that you were not mature enough to ratify this protocol before the Parliament was dissolved here in this Croatian Parliament. The third thought, a warning for us all together in Montenegro and a chance to think about it all together, means south of Sava we have an area of instability in BiH, and in Montenegro, as well as part of Serbia, Macedonia, Kosovo, and we need to take advantage of the accession of Montenegro to the NATO alliance in order to stabilise this area south of Croatia for a long, long term period of time. In that space if you compare a little bit of the influence that exists in the Middle East and in that space it's similar. You have the influence of Russia, you have the influence of the West of America, of the EU, of Turkey, of the Arab countries, it's very similar. So we must also take this loan to bring Montenegro closer to NATO as a kind of chance to engage in this long-term stabilisation, and clearly we are very dependent here and are directed to sort things out in neighbouring BiH where Croats are constitutional and must be equal. And the fourth thought concerns this Croatian Parliament, which is that Mr. Minister has already said on several occasions that he is ready as minister to come to the Croatian Parliament, as the Prime Minister said, we welcome it. The current model of cooperation between the Government and the Parliament that we have is not effective enough, we have a law on cooperation and in the field of European affairs where we get in some way served what has been done. We need to change that, and we need to be more active. The Croatian Parliament must participate in the formation of a position means that we are getting proposals from ministers, Prime Ministers and that in the end here in the Croatian Parliament where there is no debate on European politics, foreign policy and we have the Government and Minister and Prime Minister who want us to enable them to give our opinions, our ideas when it comes to Croatian foreign policy and what I think Mrs Pusic, the security policy. Here are four thoughts, thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18386	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas, of course. He's the first of his distinguished MPs, Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18387	Mr Kovac, you said we will address open issues of campers and other issues when joining the European Union of Montenegro or something like that. However, I, for example, see Serbia in the opening of Chapter 22, 23, that they have not changed their legislation to Croatian defenders, they still have jurisdiction where they want to arrest, arrest Croatian defenders without question, regardless of what people who were Shesseljo's men today, the main, key, right hand of the Chetnik Duke, have at the head of Serbia. Therefore, we have allowed them to do so because we are not allowed to cross over into the European Union. We, when we entered the European Union, absolutely did not protect the national interests of either the economic belt or the protection of the heroes of the Homeland War who have been arrested, located, transferred and called out for warrants as opposed to the greatest criminals ever unmarked. Simply our policy and our entry into the European Union was not so much that we dealt with things simply. Let us remember the pressure of Slovenia on Croatia. So it won't just go like that, except the Foreign Ministry, the President of the Republic who's also in charge, and we all have to talk about it together and make decisions and protect national interests. Because it can't happen that they arrest generals of the Croatian Army, of the Croatian Army, of our state without the whole system being able to manage for five days. So national security must be protected, we must be and protect our interests and not the interests of Montenegro or Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18388	Thank you. The honourable representative Miro Kovac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18389	I agree with my colleague Bull when he says that we weren't well-aware enough and clear when it comes to national interests, we have some kind of complex. When, say, a colleague from a neighbouring country, almost neighbouring countries, say from Austria, when the foreign minister says that Turkey should be blocked, then it is normal and when a representative in the Croatian Parliament says that it is a scandal, it is terrible, it is difficult. No, we have national interests in this case what counterpart Bulj said when it comes to Montenegro, so there are criteria that Montenegro will have to meet. When it comes to neighbouring Serbia, we have succeeded with the former government that all those former, important things and the issue of this law that they have that is unacceptable that Serbia must correct it in a way that Croatian courts will be in charge of crimes committed in Croatia and Serbian in Serbia. We have foreign ministers here who will surely respect the framework agreed at an international conference where everything is beautifully written black on white. But I repeat, it is not only the Croatian government, until the Croatian President, that there is a lot of things for all of us who are in the Croatian Parliament, who we have the right to say and who we have to say, to encourage the Croatian government, to ask the Croatian government to do some things, which is to adhere to some agreed criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18390	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18391	Thank you, Your Honor. So here is Mr. Miro Kovac again representing the thesis that Montenegro must enter the NATO Pact at any cost, despite seeing the history and Montenegro, meaning in the aggression to southern Croatia and the role of NATO's pact in the aggression of countries around the globe. And now those two ideas are coming together. And who brings them together? They are joined by Milo Djukanovic, a man who has always been for war, never for peace, a man who served criminals in Belgrade and now serves criminals in Washington. And instead of saying no to Mili Djukanovic, not to war, not to spread the war story and to peace, we say bravo Milo Djukanovic, join NATO, send the army and still boast about Milo Djukanovic sending Montenegrin soldiers to Afghanistan. What do my Milo Djukanovic and Montenegro have to do with Afghanistan? So these people need peace, not war, but for 15 years America has imposed on them there, first the Taliban imposes on them, and now they impose some kind of false peace which, in its nature, is all but peace and actually occupation and puppet rule. First they had that Karzai For the president, now God knows who they're... [[I've got to...]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18392	I must warn you again you have violated Article 240 which clearly states that you must not insult the representatives of a foreign country or a foreign state. You're talking about criminals in Washington. You can't use words like that. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18393	I am pleased that my colleague Pernar represents one of the fundamental values of the Croatian Constitution and that is the value of peacemaking. That's nice to meet you. And I will also stand up for it our policy will be peaceful. However, we are not representatives of the Montenegrin people here, we are representatives of the Croatian people. You have been elected by Croatian citizens, me, here is Mr. Minister Stier, and we have been chosen by Croatian citizens and we see what is in the interest of Croatia. We see, we get information through the official institutions of Montenegro about what Montenegro wills, there are no other instruments, you know, an instrument of official existence of institutions, there is Parliament, there is a government, there is a president etc. Therefore, we stick to it, so far 13 countries have ratified the accession of Montenegro to NATO, including Slovenia, Hungary, Iceland, and now Lithuania. We need to see if it's in Croatia's interest. I repeat, my belief is and my club's belief is that it's in the interest of the Republic of Croatia to expand the area of stability. I am not a Montenegrin, I am not a national of Montenegro you understand, a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, I am thinking of Croatian interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18394	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18395	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Kovac, you called me and the SDP, I don't really know why. You heard in my statement on behalf of the club that the SDP supports receiving Montenegro into NATO, that when the government was formed and formed the Croatian Euro-Atlantic Partnership Policy, we formed a contract on it and signed it with Montenegro and then implemented it jointly by helping Montenegro meet the requirements for membership. Our government could not propose ratification of this agreement because the protocol was only signed in Brussels on 19.5.2016. Mr. Oreshkovic's government could have done this, but as we know it fell, and when the government fell, what was the point of even discussing what the Government's proposal was in Parliament and on the other hand, you yourself said only 13 states to this day have ratified that agreement of 28. Therefore, in what is Croatia now in a bad position or what has been harmfully done for Croatia to discuss this issue today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18396	The honourable representative Miro Kovac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18397	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Klisovic, I wouldn't have come forward if I hadn't listened to that nice story of yours, the candy out of your mouth was how wonderful everything was, how he cared about the stability of the neighborhood, how wonderful, how positive it was, how the bridges were being built, how he wanted to cooperate. However, I repeat this question and we now find that there is a consensus. You're in, HNS is in, we're in, so we were in for it so you said it yourself a few months ago. And there was a proposal to ratify it on the day of Parliament's disbandment before the decision to disband, to disband. So, that's what I was going to say, we could have solved it and had a positive message to Montenegro, had some kind of signal. You missed it, I could stand for it, you didn't want to do it, we did the same thing, we did the same thing when we were all here together, I wasn't a member of this Parliament when we voted in conclusion and made a commitment to the government that it had to seek the termination of the arbitration agreement. A similar thing now for Montenegro for ratification. So it's that if you hadn't commended yourself that it was beautiful, beautiful and picturery or collaboration you wouldn't have come forward because you did have to react yourself. Thank you very much, Mr. Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18398	Thank you. And the last individual debate is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18399	Thank you, Chairman. Well, so it's been my honor to speak last and I'm going to try to sum up this whole debate. The debate would narrow down to three thesis, the first thesis that Milo Djukanovic does not represent the will of the Montenegrin people, and that if the Montenegrin people were for NATO then Mili Djukanovic would not be a problem in making a referendum. And if the Montenegrin people in that referendum were to be called to join NATO and I, although I am personally against NATO, could say ok, I respect the will of the Montenegrin people, if they want to enter that story let them go. However, we are asked to support Montenegro's NATO entry and to realize that the Montenegrin people are against it on the one hand and on the other hand are aware of the nature of the NATO alliance. The NATO alliance does not spread peace and stability around the world. And Milo Djukanovic, who supports NATO, does not support NATO because he really believes in this Euro-Atlantic story but to save himself. For the same reason, he had previously supported Milosevic's policy. I'm told by the time tomorrow that the Chinese rule this space he'd be for the Chinese. So the authorities are changing around him, the geopolitical impact is changing, and he's always slanting after the stronger one. And he now thinks that if he settles with America, if he serves NATO, contrary to the will of his own people that it will make him a better position for himself. I would like to read this message, or letter sent to me by Marko Milačić from Montenegro. It's an activist who leads the resistance, the resistance to hopelessness. I hope he affects your decision. "Lords of the Croatian MPs I am telling you on behalf of most citizens of Montenegro, don't be complicit of the mafia Montenegrin regime by supporting our country's path to NATO and thus settling with a criminal elite in power other than citizens are pushing Montenegro into that military alliance. Montenegro does not want to join NATO, and this shows all fair from the government uncontrollable research on public change. Montenegro wants to be a neutral country such as both neutral and Malta, Cyprus, Austria, Sweden, Ireland or Finland in all order of EU member states. Gentlemen of the Parliament of Croatia do not be accomplices to a regime that for three decades for the work of its personal privileges does not release power by not choosing the means to do so, persecuting the same-minded, murder, mounted processes, numerous factory affairs. Montenegro does not want to be part of military alliances, Montenegro wants a policy not to interfere with global conflicts, Montenegro does not want war for peace as today's light motive for NATO's pact. The same war for peace as Milo Djukanovic called it in the early 1990s when Dubrovnik was bombed. Most citizens of Montenegro want them to decide at a referendum but the authorities in Montenegro do not, in all likelihood, want to allow us to do so. According to government data, which I personally delivered to the public through my sources, which until then were the secrets of as many as 84% of Montenegrin citizens want the issue of NATO to be decided at the referendum. Djukanovic doesn't care. He also wants to make a decision in the Assembly. It's not democracy, gentlemen of the Montenegrin MPs want democracy. The one whom you unfortunately supportd for years by Djukanovic in NATO only wants to preserve his personal privileges and privileges of a handful of his tycoons, businessmen and criminals in order to ensure impunity for all that he does and what he has done for nearly three decades from the crimes of the 1990s when you know and all of what happened then through suspicious privatisations sounds very familiar to political cleanups. Montenegro wants democracy, not NATO. We want peace, not planetary tightening. Podgorica is crying out for freedom, not by taking away countries and nations around the world in an endlessly sick desire for territory and resources. Gentlemen, someone who detests all his beings and is ashamed of the bombing of Dubrovnik, I write to you on behalf of many of them. We don't want new Dubrovniks around the world, we don't want new wars for peace. We just want peace. Montenegro, but not that criminalised Montenegro, Mile Djukanovic wants the best possible relations with both the east and the west. Gentlemen, don't be complicit of the last autocratic regime in Europe, be on the side of truth and freedom, look at the Living Wall that you should be proud of and support the people of Montenegro, not the crime that usurped power for three decades. Marko Milačić, a citizen activist journalist and one of the leaders of the political group of hopelessness resistance. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, you are aware that the suffering that Croatia has suffered under this aggression of Serbia-Montenegro on our country is actually something similar to what the countries that NATO's pact is saying are stabilising them, I would say it is stabilising like when the Soviet Union stabilized the Hungarian rebellion in Budapest or in the Czech Republic with tanks. And then when he said I don't know who Brezhnev, Khrushchev says the situation is now in Czechoslovakia stable or I don't know normalized. Ladies and gentlemen, war is against the interests of every human and NATO pact that imposes war and destruction on countries around the world, as the Montenegrin regime, Mile Djukanovic, once imposed war on us. And by supporting the war, by supporting Milo Djukanovic, by supporting NATO, we ladies and gentlemen are acting against the interests of people across the globe. And in whose interest? In the interest of a tiny and narrow elite ruling federal reserves who wants to rule the world's resources and who's willing to lead who knows how many more wars just to sell oil for a dollar. By putting on a group of these narrow few at the top of the pyramid of power, which, in my court, is also responsible for the war in the former Yugoslavia, we, as parliamentary representatives, are holding a historic responsibility for things that will later happen. By supporting Montenegro's NATO entry, you personally participate in crimes in which Montenegro will later participate with its will, whether forced or blackmailed as NATO bombed Libya and thus committed countless crimes in the African country. This refugee crisis that we are witnessing is the result of the NATO Pact, or America. You will say America and NATO is not the same, but you yourself know very well that NATO is equal to America, because NATO is an extended hand of America. It is unlikely that when a decision is made to bomb a country such as Libya, that a country will veto either Croatia, whether Montenegro or Montenegro, because all of our countries of the former Balkans are actually puppet, servant and subject to Washington's decisions and ultimately participate in what they themselves were victims of an unjust and imposed war that was not in the interest of the people in Croatia or Serbia or Montenegro or Bosnia and Herzegovina. These wars that have been fought in the past and will be fought in the future are a disgrace to all mankind, but primarily to those who support them. Unfortunately, I see that you HDZ and SDP gentlemen are ready to support it, that policy for both our country and Montenegro, as well as for the whole world. For this reason, I am ashamed to be part of this assembly that will make decisions that are contrary to the interests of not only the citizens of Montenegro, but to the whole of humanity who wants peace, not war. The peace we wanted, but we didn't get it. All we got was suffering and suffering, like the Iraqis, as well as the Afghans who didn't want the Taliban in power at all, but America installed them. And as most Libyans wanted peace and prosperity, but America had other plans for their country. NATO but basically America, because no one asked us about whether Gaddafi would go or stay. It was a decision that was made elsewhere. And what's going on in Syria, so you all see where the guns come from in Syria and that right from the member states of the NATO Pact, from Belgium, France, the Netherlands go to those jihadists there and fight. With his support of terrorism, NATO has actually created a refugee crisis and all this human misery that we have the opportunity to see, and citizens of the countries that have committed aggression have brought them into a state of misery and despair that we can only remember from wartime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18400	Thank you very much. Before we move on to the replicas, I must draw your attention to your confusion. This is the Croatian Parliament, and the assembly is in Belgrade. I know you were there, so I guess that's what happened to you. But now we'll go to replicas. Here, the first replica is the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18401	Thank you, Chairman. Yes, counterpart Pernar said an interesting finding, which is that in essence all interventions of the Warsaw Pact rested on the fact that they were legitimate because a permanent structure invited them to come. So we have '56. in Hungary or '68. In Czechoslovakia, 90% of the people oppose the Warsaw Pact, but some politician is found, say, Janos Kad, who calls the Soviet army and she occupys the country and is then considered legitimate. Was that legitimate? History has shown that it isn't. We now have the same case in Montenegro, so 84% of the people oppose NATO's pact or seek a referendum, but the elite representing 1.2% of the people of the political elite and possibly one of the top economic elite thinks that NATO should come that it is in their interest and they will also call on them in a assembly that represents the falsified will of the Montenegrin voters to implement that decision and Montenegro is extradited in at least the next 20, 30 years to a political military structure that will not work in their interest. If this is already so in Montenegro that they can't help themselves, then we really shouldn't be involved in this yet in the way that we support ourselves. I believe that the citizens of Montenegro listen to us and that one day the truth will also be known about what happened today as the truth of what happened in '56. And '68. A year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18402	The honourable representative, Ivan Pernar, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18403	Thank you, Mr. Bunzac. You said the summa summarum of the whole story. The Montenegrin people do not want to go to NATO, but NATO wants Montenegro. And then this elite political elite, which serves the West, denies the will of the people, fabricates reality by claiming to be Montenegrins for NATO, and they are aware that they are not for this reason refusing the referendum. conduct a referendum arguing that it is in Montenegro's interest. So my people say that Montenegrins feel it's in their interest so they'd say first we want to join NATO. Well, they're not Montenegrins, as the oars say. Well, they saw Montenegrins and in their own country who were the gifts of the NATO Pact, saw the bombing of their own country, saw civilians blown up in Montenegro, saw the poored uranium that America fired on Montenegro, but mostly in Kosovo. So they themselves were exposed to the aggression of the NATO Pact, which was without the mandate of the UN Security Council and opposed to international law. So they were the first victims of that NATO pact policy and are now being convinced by them. We are convinced that the Montenegrins want in the NATO Pact. Well, good people, how long are we going to think of these Montenegrins as fools and claim that they want it and that we want to help them, etc. I think this is the theatre of absurdity, that this is a circus directed by the global elite and their extended hands in Montenegro, Mili Djukanovic, and that is why we will oppose receiving Montenegro into the NATO Pact.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18404	I thank Agent Pernar for thinking in favour of Montenegro. The next representative to report for the replica is Representative Miro Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18405	Thank you, Mr. President. When we started to confess here who's ashamed of something, I'm ashamed that some MPs here had a fight with common sense and historical facts. It was not NATO's alliance or America that triggered conflicts in the former Yugoslavia, did not commit aggression on Croatia or started a war in BiH, it was a major Serbian policy and JNA. And your thesis is that it is not that anyone defies us that we need you to advocate it elsewhere, rather than reinterpret the historical facts and at least the basic provisions of the Croatian Constitution and the values on which the Croatian Parliament stands. And if that's what you're talking about, such distortions of facts, then may I remind you that the first NATO force intervention in Europe at all was precisely in the use of the BiH air force against these major Serb policy units. So the facts are quite different from what you're talking about. On the other hand, try to sell this thesis in the Kosovo Assembly, and let's see what they answer. The minimum of decency should be to respect our own values and foundations, not to claim that we were some extended hand of American or some other policy than precisely Croatian politics thanks to their own independence and if you want to oppose most of the key factors of international policy at the time, but because they were right and forced them to comply with the standards they are calling for to lead to Croatian freedom and independence. Therefore, do not abuse us with your ignorance and falsification of facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18406	I thank counsel Tudjman. Representative Pernar's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18407	So here you are saying America had no fingers in it, but we know that James Baker, U.S. Secretary of State, came to visit Belgrade in 21.6.1991 and said he supported the entire Yugoslavia and we know that only a few days after that the aggression of the Serbian army against Slovenia and Croatia began. I would also like to say that these thesis that I am fabricating history are false and I would dare say that your father Franjo Tudjman in countless meetings with Slobodan Milosevic, a war criminal and one of the spreaders of large Serbian ideology actually negotiated the division of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And thanks to this policy, the division of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is the idea that the war has taken place between the HVO and the BiH Army, which has actually resulted in the death of civilians and the death of the Croatian people in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18408	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Agent Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18409	... 238. where it is said of insulting, or disrespecting MPs, which actually refers to what we do not have in the Rules of Procedure, which is MPs in the Croatian Parliament swear that they will respect the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Croatia, which Mr Pernar and his statements simply contradict both the Constitution and the legal norms when it comes to the fundamental provisions on which the Croatian state is based. [[Specially enabled.]] And as for these in countless meetings, there were only two bilateral meetings, so you lie to your colleague Pernar. That's one thing. I don't have the right to reply, but it means it's a complete lie, a distortion of history, and I think my colleague Pernar is, he needs to sit in the assembly and not.../The speaker has shut down./... [[Intruder: You do not have the right to reply.]] [[I'd like to ask.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18410	Thank you, Agent Tudjman. The next representative to report for the replica is Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18411	Mr. Pernar, a Croatian soldier led then by the first Croatian president in the community of all Croatian citizens were the Ustasha sons, whether Partisans created a free and independent Republic by resisting the large Serb aggression led by Slobodan Milosevic. Indeed, Vukovar, Vukovar has committed a huge crime which you, in the Belgrade congregations, in various media, say in the Banja Luka media that it is not true. So were you in Vukovar? So here's your memo, you want me to read it on the facebook? Well, if it weren't for Croatian soldiers in Bosnia and Herzegovina there would never be peace, if it weren't for Croatian soldiers in Croatia as in Vukovar today, we wouldn't be sitting here in Parliament. And embarrassing are the statements in which you refer to people who have given their lives and who are now watching their families and their sons are underground. I know, the injustices came because we're '95. handed over to politicians, and elites to run this country, sold out various national interests, arrested and located these people and transferred. But don't go under dignity because of those dead, because of their children, because of those families watching us. For this free Croatia that has lost part of its sovereignty, it is a fact of false politics, it is a fact, but because of the dead, numerous victims of Vukovar, Škabrnja, Dubrovnik and other places, do not banalise the role of Croatian soldiers. Croatian soldier was human, Croatian soldier saved Bihaćka enclave from the large-serb butchers from Banja Luka where you were the other day, send them a message that they were butchers and that they slaughtered our Croatian children and are now trying to move our Croatian people We have the Croatian Army saved the Bihaćka Enclava and 5.5 million people from Bosnia and Croatian Muslim religions are we... [[Invader President: Time.]] Representative Miro Bulj, time's up. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder President:]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18412	Thank you. Replication response, Agent Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18413	Well, Mr. Bulj, I do not deny the suffering and suffering of the Croatian people or the massacre that occurred in both Skabrnj and Vukovar, these are historical facts. However, it is also a historical fact that America supported Slobodan Milosevic. And I don't even speak against the actions of the Croatian Army in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I believe that it should have acted together with the BiH army against this Serbian aggression rather than war against Bosniaks, which I think was a tacticalally wrong move. I would also like to point out that the Croatian Army actually won and Mrkonjic City and came close to Banja Luka, but that America, or NATO, did not allow the Croatian Army to move forward and that it was actually under threat of intervening against the Croatian Army, the Croatian Army had to stand 40km from Banja Luka and that in fact NATO created, or legitimateized and maintained the Republic of Serbia that was created, you all know in what circumstances. So by showing America as some positive factor, some of the pro-Croatian factors you're misleading our country's citizens because America only cares about having slaves around the world and our country for which the defenders have died today is unfortunately everything but independent, free and sovereign because our government and our Parliament are leading a policy that is in the interest of the West and foreign banks and not of our own people who live in poverty whose people's wealth has been sold out and whose youth moves around the world. For these problems I am saying, we cannot blame Slobodan Milosevic unfortunately, although we would like to say that Serbs are guilty of everything but we know for ourselves that they did not, that someone else had fingers and you know that those who had those fingers are sitting on your left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18414	Thank you, Agent Pernar. Answer to the replica or breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18415	My colleague Pernar was injured by Article 238, demeaning and insulting MPs. You are offended by the fact that the Croatian soldier was legitimate in operations in BiH along with the BiH Army as the basis of the Izetbegovic agreement, Tudjman in Villa Dalmatia in Split in '94. years Don't spread the lies, it's a demeaning of this Parliament and the role....../Intruder President: Representative Bulj, please [[Aggressor President: Representative Bulj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18416	Please, just one thing. I would ask that as far as historical determination is concerned, it is done in another place. As far as the legitimacy and sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia are concerned, I would really warn parliamentary representatives who need to protect Croatian interests here to protect from the real protection and to pay very much attention to what is Croatian interest and what is not. The next representative to report for the word is MP Miro Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18417	Thank you very much, Mr. President. He feels, however, that fellow Pernar you were a little bit in Banja Luka, Belgrade, with that dictionary, the assembly but it'll go well. Look, you said you were ashamed, a man can be ashamed of his family, he's not powerful, he can't change it. He can only marry his wives, he can divorce. You are ashamed of the Croatian Parliament. So you don't have to be here if you won't be there, right? So don't do it, it's not okay. Be responsible, have freedom of expression, be responsible, do not insult us here indirectly. We're not like some kind of dwarfs who are stupid and you're very smart. We don't accept that. Therefore, we ask nicely that you be responsible for yourself, for the Croatian public and for all of us in the Croatian Parliament. I'm not going into any kind of discussion about history. I'm just going to tell you that we have changed the course of history by our own free will. It is true that the American policy was for Yugoslavia, but our will for the people and leadership made America accept reality, it was what, that Croatia was recognised by the member states of the European community in January 92. Therefore, Croatia is not a power but Croatia can change some things. Here I said a little case of Slovenia when we reached a conclusion here in the Croatian Parliament and obliged the government to initiate the procedure for the termination of the arbitration agreement. So Croatia is not a power, it can change things and what you're saying is that we are in the service of the West, we are the West you understand, we are the EU, we are the NATO Alliance in a way "the Western world". It's a reality. You have the right to fight to be, for example, in some other alliance. It is your right, but Croatia is currently in NATO and the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18418	Thank you. Replication response, Agent Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18419	Well, I'd like to say that I don't think of anyone in this house as either a stupid or a dwarf, but I say that a large number of people in this house represent Croatia's interests but America's interests. And that for this reason also supports Milo Djukanovic, because if Milo Djukanovic were against America, you would be against him, but whoever he is for America and for that global agenda, you support him. As far as America is concerned, the historical fact is that the Russian Federation recognised Croatia almost two months before the United States. So Russia confessed to Croatia on 17 February 1992 and the United States on 7 April 1992, which means that America wanted to preserve, at all costs, the ladies and gentlemen of that Yugoslavia you were against and that that's why Milosevic dared to go to this work. Because if America had initially supported Croatia's sovereign and independent Slobodan Milosevic would never have gotten wings or dared to aggression on our country. And these subsequent NATO interventions, so I say we saw before Banja Luka when Croatian soldiers were killed, and we all know it, and we all have to keep quiet that it died if I'm cheating on 35 soldiers of the Croatian Army right under American bombs, as did firemen in the Kornati most likely 99% of them died by a NATO bomb and as the Adriatic was poisoned by these NATO bombs and what else can I say? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18420	I personally did not want to interrupt you even though I had a lot of right to interrupt you because you personally insulted me, I do not know whether you offended others or someone might feel offended. You personally insulted me at the moment you called no names but certain, MP Pernar I have no intention of polluting, I personally found myself offended because you said that parliamentary representatives in the Croatian Parliament do not represent the interests of Croatia. Look, I don't know how others feel, but I work for Croatian interests, and that's why I got involved in politics. I'll beg you next time I won't be a favor and once again I warn you that I'm really going to stick to the Rules of Procedure, you have no right to do that. Thank you. I give the final word at the scene of the debate to the proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18421	Thank you, Mr. President. Respected representatives of Montenegro's NATO entry, the government supports and seeks support from the Croatian Parliament primarily because it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. I would only mention some facts here and on the trace of some of the data that was provided during the debate that would require some clarification or supplementation. As for supporting Montenegro's NATO entry, it is indeed a support to Montenegro's state in the interest of consolidation, to stabilise Southeast Europe. In any case, there is no support for one person or any political option. The fact is that in Montenegro's elections, the DPS has been given the highest mandate according to this, it belongs to it that it can have a mandate and possibly form a government. However, it is within the jurisdiction of Montenegrin institutions. Our support goes to the state of Montenegro. As for the conditions that NATO has set around public support, it has been said that none, not even of the research or even of the official agencies or means of public communication, has shown that the support is majority. The fact is, however, that in July of the survey carried by Montenegro's broadcasting show that 54.5% of citizens who support Montenegro's NATO entry. What is also important and I would like to thank all the MPs who have opened the issue of the obligations we have in the government in resolving open issues with Montenegro, i.e. during the debate. obligation and i.e. something the government of the Republic of Croatia is very serious about, i.e. a question that is not only limited to the border. There's also one list, I won't list it now, but it includes, of course, energy issues, campers issues... Their damages, the question of the school ship, the Adriatic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, we always worry about the position of the Croatian minority. We believe that Montenegro's NATO membership and the development of good neighbourly relations with Montenegro will provide an additional framework to address these outstanding issues. But it is clear that the government of the Republic of Croatia will insist in co-operation with the Croatian Parliament on resolving these issues. What I would also point out here is that our citizens who are following this session would not get the wrong impression. NATO has never attacked the Republic of Croatia. NATO has bombed Milosevic's army and Milosevic's forces, and today NATO will not forget that, those who continue to talk about the Storm as ethnic cleansing, who deny genocide in Vukovar, who accuse President Tudjman or Croatia of committing aggression against Bosnia and Herzegovina or working in division. It will not forgive NATO, it will not forgive Croatia. He will not forgive that NATO wants to join Montenegro today, and the government of the Republic of Croatia strongly supports and seeks support from the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18422	I thank Minister Stier, Deputy Prime Minister. The replica was reported by a representative, and I apologize to Commissioner Bunjac for expressing his first wish for a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18423	Thank you, Chairman. I can understand that there have never been dissonant tones in this House as far as NATO's alliance is concerned, but here these dissonant tones have now appeared and they are not, therefore, the result, or the fruit of the thinking of a few representatives of the Living Wall, but are the fruit of thinking a large part of the Croatian people, and I would dare say the majority. And if that were the case, the fact that a referendum had never been carried out, because if this House had been sure that people supported the NATO alliance as well as in Montenegro would have spent a smooth referendum, it would have gotten 80, 90%, and never again would this issue have been raised. However, there was no referendum, so let me say that you've somehow made yourself a minus and that this criticism you're listening to right now is completely justified. I honestly feel that in any discussion, it is a little unserious to listen that someone was offended or that someone was angry. That's where the arguments need to be discussed. So we're, you have your arguments, we're yours. If you think, Mr. President, that the representatives of the Living Wall should be thrown out of this debate, don't surround yourself, don't call on any rules of procedure. Cut the thing right now, say we're moving you away from the session and that's it. Finally, at the very beginning of your mandate, you have shown that you have such a tendency, so I call on you to be firm and to continue in your conduct of so-called parliamentary democracy. PRESIDENT: I am extremely pleased that you have a huge desire to see the circus happen and that it has been very difficult for you these three weeks of peace. Unfortunately, peace will continue, and all persons, since there is absolutely no bias or impartiality towards any club of parliamentary deputies, will have equal treatment on my part. Also, if you stick to the Rules of Procedure and the Living Wall Club, and I think the other clubs with me will be absolutely no problem while I chair this House. And on the other hand, you have to understand that I'm not offended by the argument. Everyone may have the right to an opinion, their own opinion, but I am deeply saddened by the fact that someone has the possibility or thinks that they have the opportunity to make an insult in principle, not by name and by name. I would like to know on the site of the representative by name and last name who is the traitor of the Republic of Croatia, because if he does not work in the interest of the Republic of Croatia then he is the traitor of the Republic of Croatia. So I would ask all esteemed MPs not to give a flat-rate and principled opinion next time, but to speak specifically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18424	The next representative to report for the replica is Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18425	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Stier, you said that the government of the Republic of Croatia will protect the interests of meaning with Montenegro that is a particular issue of border, a question of campers, a question of minority Croatian, but the fact is that any entry into European integration as an EU has always been forced into various moves from the EU and EU officials. So we can remember the countries of our neighbouring Slovenia with the border what they did to us in the case of the border in Piran Bay, so Croatia allowed that in the pre-accession negotiations... The 23rd chapter to open, however, remains their jurisdictional right over Croatian defenders which is not good and should be discussed if the Croatian soldier was neither in Vojvodina nor in Nis but was defending his homeland, while we know who the Serbs lead again I will repeat what I always repeat to Sheschel's assistants from the Duke of Chetnik Seselj. Therefore, we must not leave the people who have defended this country and allow them to join European integration until we have protected the security of our citizens and our national interests. Croatia has good neighbourly relations is about cooperation, but only to the protection of our Croatian interests, the interests of our citizens, and especially those who defended this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18426	Thank you, Agent Buljo. The reply to the replica of Deputy Prime Minister Davor Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18427	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor. Slovenia has not achieved the goal of blocking Croatia. What is clear is that we, as well as the accession of other countries, are now on their way to the EU and thus Serbia, are not looking at and not introducing bilateral issues but insisting on meeting European criteria. In this case, Serbia must also meet all criteria set out in the EU common positions, in particular in Chapter 23. And that specifically means, that until the question so-called. Serbia's regional jurisdictions will not be able to close Chapter 23.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18428	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. The representative who also reported for the replica is representative Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18429	Thank you, Mr. President. And thank Mr. Minister for reminding us of NATO's role in the 1990s in stabilising our space. To all skeptics who have doubts about whether NATO is bringing peace or war, he would ask a question, but better to ask himself, would there be any aggression against Croatia at all if Croatia were at that time when the aggression began as a member of NATO. I am also pleased that Mr. Tudjman said that MPs should prepare better for these sessions, which I particularly agree with because to prepare then they would know that America was so demonized along with Great Britain in '92. In the UN Security Council, the UN Security Council also proposed Resolution 777, which found that the former Yugoslavia had fallen apart and that it had been inherited by six equal followers and thus de facto not individually granted recognition to Croatia but provided a general international recognition to Croatia. I thank the Minister for not calling me personally or the SDP that this topic was not included in the final session of the Parliament when we disbanded the Parliament, and the esteemed representative Kovac has four years to read the Rules of Procedure and realize that the agenda is proposed by the President of the Parliament, most in the Assembly adopts it. Therefore, my one voice would certainly not have contributed to it in any way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18430	I thank Representative Klisovic. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Dear MPs and MPs, it is my honor and pleasure in the Croatian Parliament to welcome his Excellency, Mr Ivan Brajovic, the president of the Parliament of Montenegro and members of the delegation. ... Dear MPs and MPs, we are now going to vote on the debated points. [[Applause.]] Please engage to determine the quorum. I find that we have a quorum and that we can make a valid decision. The first item is the Final Proposal for a Protocol Confirmation Act with the North Atlantic Accession Treaty of Montenegro, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 31. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of Protocols under the North Atlantic Accession Treaty of Montenegro. Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes were 96 for, 2 abstentions and 3 against the Law on Confirmation of Protocols under the North Atlantic Accession Treaty of Montenegro. Congratulations. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18433	Your Honor, Mr. President, the esteemed MPs and MPs. So the Annual Report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2015, I will give an overview of the basic macroeconomic and fiscal indicators in the opening debate in 2015. In 2015, therefore, a six-year negative trend in economic activity was halted. In 2015, economic growth was 1.6%, and a positive contribution to GDP growth came primarily from domestic demand, mostly driven by household consumption and also by net foreign demand. Looking individually, the largest positive contribution of GDP growth in 2015 came from exports of goods and services that were actually increased by 9.2%, followed by consumption of households that were realistically increasing 1.2%, gross fixed capital investments recorded a real growth of 1.6%, and state consumption was real growth of 0.6%. A negative contribution from the change in GDP came from imports of goods and services that were actually up 8.6%. Inflation in 2015 was negative, so we had a deflation of 0.5%, and the most significant factor in deflator movements was energy prices, which were primarily under the influence of a significant decline in the price of crude oil on the world market. With regard to the revenues and expenditure of the state budget, therefore the total revenues of the state budget in 2015 were reached at HRK 109.8 billion and by 1.4% were higher than planned for the budget. At the inter-annual level, we must say that the revenues are not comparable compared to 2014 because of the methodological changes that occurred during 2015, which are primarily the exit of the HZZ from the state budget and the state treasury system, the transition to the gross principle of showing income tax, the recording of the incomes of individual users that were so far excluded, therefore their own revenues of certain budget users such as institutions in culture, national parks, nature parks, health institutions, science and higher education, justice, the system of execution of sanctions, etc. Further amendments have been made to the measures taken by the Government which decided to implement in accordance with the excessive budget deficit procedure in the first half of 2014 if they have an overall annual impact in 2015 as well as measures adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the end of 2014 and 2015. Tax revenues in 2015 amounted to 68 billion kuna, recording an annual increase of 7.8% and reaching 3.4% higher compared to the planned amount. Income tax, income tax revenues in 2015 were achieved at 2.1 billion kuna, which is an increase of 47.5% compared to 2014. This increase in income tax revenues is the result of the introduction of interest on savings and the transition to the gross principle of showing income. Income from profit tax was achieved at €6.2 billion, which is a 10.4% increase in income from this tax and has been increased due to better business of economic operators in 2014. Incomes from value added tax were generated at €43.6 billion, which is an increase of 6.5% compared to the previous year. Special taxes and excise tax revenues amounted to 13.9 billion kuna, an increase of 8.4% year-on-year. The increase occurred largely due to the implementation of amendments to the legislation and, in accordance with the requirements of the excessive budget deficit procedure and the agreed gradual adjustment of the relevant legislation to the EU acquis, therefore, changes in the amount of excise duties on energy and electricity and the increase in excise duty on tobacco products occurred. The revenue from the contribution was generated in the amount of €22.9 billion. At the end of the aid revenues, 5 billion kuna, of this amount of 5 billion kuna, 94.2% are aids related to EU funding projects, the construction of Schengen capacities and direct payments in agriculture. On the dissipation side of the budget, there was a total expenditure of EUR 118.6 billion and 98.3%, respectively, compared to the planned expenditure for 2015 and there was a reduction of the total expenditure of 8.9 billion or around 7%, about 7%. And because of, above all, of the separation of HZZO from the State Treasury and the State Budget system and of the full application of the provisions of the Budget Law, which for the first time are their own dedicated incomes and receipts, as well as expenditure and expenditure financed by their own and dedicated incomes from state institutions in health care, both on the income side and on the general side of the state budget. If we look at individual categories of expenditure, the expenditures for employees in 2015 were made in the amount of 25 billion kuna, which makes up about 99% of the planned funds for that year. If the expenditure on staff is excluded, financed by the own and dedicated revenue of the budget users who are legally excluded from payment to the state budget, that is, around 3.8 billion kuna, expenditures have been increased by 51.2 million kuna, and all in all is the result of the increase of other expenditure on employees by 151 million kuna, which is therefore the payment of the difference in the jubilee prize, the increase of salary contributions by 31.1 million kuna and the reduction of salaries by 130 million kuna, resulting from the cancellation of the allowance of 4,8 and 10% to the loyalty of the service since 1 April 2014 and the reduction of the basis for the collection of salaries of civil servants by 8%. Material expenditures amounted to €11 billion, representing 2.6% more than the planned funds and primarily to record individual expenditures. If material expenditure is excluded, financed by the own and dedicated revenues of budgetary users that are legally excluded from payment to the state budget, i.e. those 3.6 billion kuna, expenditures are lower by 25.4 million kuna compared to the same previous years. The structure of the material expenditure compared to 2014 reduced the cost of employees by 7%, hence transport charges, for field work, field work and separate life, reduced costs for material and energy by 23.6%, increased costs for services by 3.1%. Financial expenditures have been made in the amount of $11 billion. Compared to 2014 and taking into account all changes in the state budget, financial expenditures were made by 588.6 million kuna more or 5.7% more compared to 2014. Subsidies expenditure amounted to €6.4 billion, representing 97.5% of the planned funds and increased by € 1.3 billion compared to the year before and due to the increase in subsidies in agriculture and shipbuilding. The subsidies in agriculture amounted to 3.9 billion kuna of which 1.8 billion from the EU and for direct payments in agriculture of 3 billion kuna and for rural development measures of 522 million kuna. The subsidies paid in transport, transport infrastructure and communications amounted to 1.4 billion kuna, of which for the promotion of rail transport of passenger 498 million kuna and for the promotion of regular maritime passenger and high-speed routes 309,6 million kuna. Aids given abroad and within the general budget were made in the amount of €11.6 billion, of which €2.4 billion were transferred to the HZZO budget and with the changes involved were greater by €553.6 million or 6.4% compared to the same period last year. The compensation to citizens and households was made in the amount of €45.3 billion, which is therefore an increase of €473,3 million compared to last year. Of these, pensions amounted to 36.7 billion, representing an increase of 356 million or 1%. Social care benefits were paid at an amount of 2.2 billion kuna and increased by 16.6 million kuna compared to 2014. The child's allowance paid at an amount of 1.6 billion kuna, representing 51 million kuna compared to the one achieved in 2014. Other expenditures were made in the amount of 5 billion kuna, which accounted for 87.6% of the current donations amounted to 1.9 billion kuna. This includes support for religious communities, compensation for damages caused by elemental disasters, payments by court solutions, support for political parties, budgetary bays, etc. and capital aid amounted to 1.7 billion of which 887 million kuna transfers to Croatian highways and HZ Infrastructure. 550 million kuna for the maintenance of railway infrastructure, traffic regulation and modernisation of railway vehicles. The cost of obtaining non-financial assets was realised in the amount of €3.2 billion, amounting to € 92.4% of the plan and with the changes involved, 2.7 billion was made, representing an increase of €860.4 million compared to the execution of the 2014 Ministry of Defence, Schengen instrument, facilities and equipment, etc. The total deficit, i.e. the surplus of the general government in 2015, thus the total budget deficit of the consolidated general government was shown according to the national classification, the national methodology was achieved at 7.6 billion kuna or 2.3% of GDP, with less than 2.6% of GDP being recorded at the level of the state budget while at the level of non-profit users and local and regional self-government units achieved a surplus of 0.2%. According to the State Statistics Institute's report on the excessive budget deficit and the level of general government debt of April 2016 and, therefore, the ESA 2010 methodology for the deficit of the general government's budget was 10.7 billion kuna or 3.2% of GDP, while the debt of the general government was 289.7 billion kuna or 86.7% of GDP. So much for the annual report on the implementation of the state budget, since it is merged, that these two points are merged, so we have an annual report on the application of fiscal rules, so just for a short time. The amendments to the Fiscal Responsibility Act, which entered into force on 8 February 2014, are subject to a provisional fiscal rule under which the annual rate of general budget expenditure growth must not exceed the annual growth rate of the projected or estimated GDP in current prices. So if we compare the expenditure of the general budget for the calculation of the fiscal rule with the achieved GDP in 2015 it is evident that the fiscal rule is also met because the general budget expenditure was reduced by 3.6% and the annual growth of the nominal GDP achieved was 1.8%. Here's a thank you for your attention and we'll be free to answer if there are any questions during the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18434	I thank Secretary of State Tufercic. Replication to the presentation of counsel Gordan Maras. I apologize to Mr Klesic for the explanation for the report on the audit carried out in front of the State Audit Office. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18435	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed MPs and MPs before you is the report on the annual audit of the annual report on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2015 submitted by the State Audit Office of the Republic of Croatia to the Parliament in May of this year, so within the legal deadline under the law, the law obliges us to do so by 1 June. The audit has been planned and carried out with the aim of providing reasonable assurance that the annual report on the implementation of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2015 has been drawn up in accordance with accounting rules and that the provisions of the law and other rules governing budgetary rules have been consistently applied. For the purposes of expressing the audit opinion, the performance of the tasks and recommendations of the previous audit, the planning of the accounting of the state budget, reporting, the achievement of income, the execution of expenditure, the borrowing and issuing of guarantees and the approval of funds from the budgetary stock have been verified. For the annual report on the implementation of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2015, a conditional opinion has been expressed. The following facts influenced the conditional opinion, among other things, part of the irregularities identified by the revision for the previous years were repeated in 2015. The implementation of individual incomes and expenditures and the receipts and expenditures significantly deviates from the plan because they are not realistically planned. The same business events have not been consistently followed up, and some information in the annual report is not complete and comparable with previous periods. The expenses for the transfer of funds to the Croatian Health Insurance Office worth 2.4 billion kuna were carried out as planned. The criteria for calculating the amount of funds to be determined from the State budget for certain insurance rights are not laid down. Receipts from borrowing and expenditure on current repayments of principals are greater than the prescribed limit as a consequence of the methodology used in the planning and presentation of data in the financing account. In addition to the proposals on the basis of which the guarantee dates are not accompanied by the full documentation. The budget law does not stipulate in which cases credit commitments may be made on unpaid guarantees, i.e. the conditions for taking over legal persons' loans are not regulated. In addition, the audit established an existing way of recording its own revenues from budget beneficiaries excluded from their obligation to pay in the state budget reporting system is not reliable, and there is a risk that not all budgetary users are included in the data, and that the data entered are not complete and accurate. The rules do not regulate the recording of specific business events related to decisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, concluded contracts and other documents which may affect revenue and expenditure, and receipts and expenditures of the state budget, although they are not directly related to monetary transactions. The provisions of the Law on the implementation of the State budget for 2014 and 2015 which are prescribed that certain revenues of the state budget, the revenue of the CERP used for the settlement of commitments under the contracts concluded by the CERRP for the account of the Republic of Croatia and the settlement of the commitments of the CERP contributed to the discrepancies of mutual claims and obligations of the Ministry of Finance and of the CERP, as well as that certain data were not complete to the reports of the implementation of the State budget. Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed MPs and MPs, for the removal of all these irregularities that we have mentioned and failures, the State Audit Office has given orders and recommendations that must be followed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18436	I thank Mr. Klesic, the chief state auditor. Mr. Maras picked up the line, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18437	Mr. President, here's after this report by State Secretary Tufekčić and Mr. Klesic, the state auditor what I can notice is the first and most important thing for me that there is no Minister of Finance here. And I listened very carefully to the show he was on the other day, talking about everything and everything and how he spent 10, 12 hours in the Assembly discussing tax reform. I hope that didn't dim him that he wasn't coming anymore, because I think about such important things, especially because there are still more important topics coming to us for the next few days he's going to visit us and we're going to be able to discuss about I'd say trends that were in 2015, 2016 and what's coming for us in the coming years. What can please me in this 2015 report and the State Secretary himself said that all indicators, all trends are positive from profit tax to income tax to consumption tax, i.e. VAT. So the state's revenues are growing and what the secretary of state himself said we have after six years of crisis finally economic growth. And here I also congratulate Mr. Maric for getting these results from the 2015 annual GDP growth award. Here are my congratulations and let him highlight that prize in his office based on the results that occurred in 2015. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18438	I'd like to thank Agent Maras. The representative who also reported for the replica is MP Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18439	Here's a quick question I'd like to ask the review. You said at one point that certain data were incorrect, if I understood you correctly, so can you just explain that certain data is not correct in this review report. So can you explain this a little more in detail to the MPs of the Parliament what you wanted to say? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18440	I thank Representative Buljo. Replication response. How about later? You got it. The State Auditor will answer that question later. The committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first representative to come forward, i.e. the representative club to report, is the SDP Representatives' Club and, on their behalf, representative Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18441	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Before us today is a united debate on the implementation of the 2015 budget, and an audit of the implementation of the same budget for 2015. I think tomorrow is our mid-term report on the sixteenth, the rebalancing of the sixteenth. Next week, we will be taxed again, and it seems to me that we are ending this year with a budget for 2017. So a lot of financial documents and the fact that happens in the Croatian economy and that is what it is and just that budget implementation shows us what the situation of the Croatian economy has been all these years, which has affected economic policies and how this has ultimately expressed itself to the implementation of the 2015 budget, is it not to forget that all the problems that occur in the economy since unemployment, the poor situation of our businesses, exports, imports and these imports are clearly mentioned today and imports are very strong imports. You see how negatively it affects GDP growth is, in fact, some of the overall activities are ultimately happening and they're guessing and they're saying what it was like to carry out a budget each of these years. What is important is to say, and here in the opening statement, it was said that these trends changed in 2015 and that for the first time since the long recession, we have achieved an economic growth of 1.6%. And you can see how this immediately realised or influenced the implementation of the 2015 budget itself. Right away, we have a much smaller deficit, a halted growth in public debt, a positive trend in exports, as far as I heard 9.2%, also the export of services records strong growth, decreases unemployment, actually the overall economic activity reflects differently, and you can manage the budget differently when you have economic growth, when you have positive trends in the economy than we had in early 2012. I would once again mention here, at the beginning of 2012, the deficit means by EUROSTAT, and I will say a little bit about this part of the data that has been presented and a lot is always spoken in public by one methodology, by another methodology, and then being created in the public perception that some data somewhere wants to be hidden or something interpreted is simply wrong. In 2011 or the end of 2011, we ended up with a deficit according to the ESA methodology means by the methodology we have to apply since we are EU member by 7.8%. So these are the facts that EUROSTAT himself defined and presented to you somewhere around 25 billion kuna. So in the final year of 2015, we end up in the final year, and it says in the very explanation that the year ends with not 7.8 starts and ends with 3.2% or 10.7 billion kuna. What do I want to tell you? That, regardless of what is public and said that there were no certain actions by the Government of Zoran Milanovic in the final budget implementation in 2015, all the effects and those who have not been able to show themselves in the implementation of the budget in 2015, especially in the 2016 budget, because it always takes economic trends or economic processes a year or two to show these real effects. Here when we talk about GDP, what generated it by GDP that today is 1.8%? So the biggest part here is said to be consumption. So 60% of personal consumption is in that GDP, and we know that Croatian citizens are under recession for six years which have been under intense pressure and their incomes and job losses and simply their incomes through their incomes, and also because of a very high level of private debt, because I have repeatedly said that, personal citizens, they are in charge of around 40% of GDP talking about households, they simply couldn't generate that economic growth that was in those previous years. And if we consider that most of the consumption is, and we ourselves know that the largest part of the consumption from 2003 to 2010, that it was generated by public consumption, consumption through infrastructure projects, and we ourselves know that we built both roads and highways and numerous infrastructure projects, and all of this went to the burden of the budget. And by accepting the ESA methodology, it was simply now recorded. This did not just happen to Croatia, it happened to you to Italy, it happened to you to Greece and many other countries where, just like Croatia, they recorded their specific projects in such a way that they are not part of the implementation of the state budget. So here I'm going to briefly talk about this modified methodology, and that's why this data here between 2015 and 2014 is hard to compare precisely because it has expanded the coverage of the users of the state budget, where in 2015 it came out of the State Treasury system. I, as finance minister, didn't agree with it at the time, and I even spoke publicly about not agreeing with that exit from the State Treasury, it's always on the one hand the health ministers put together, and actually the finance ministers on the other side of the rally, but we'll see what the effect of getting HZZO out of the Treasury and whether it showed those effects that were then presented. In this context, when we talked about the biggest generator, which is households, the second part is investment and consumption, not only public consumption but the company's consumption shows that everyone has turned positive trends. And these were the measures we've been saying all along, restructuring, restructuring of private debt, and private debt to households and debt to companies, and those measures that they showed because we came to a very high level of debt simply didn't finance it, they couldn't pay off their loans. You remember those 45 billion kunas in 2011 outstanding liabilities among companies, unfortunately today we have 40 billion kunas of natural persons' debts. And recently there was a certain data as possible and that is why I warned through the Law on Profit Tax Article 12 which changed, and you saw recently that the data had been released that the first 10 Croatian citizens are obliged to the business banks of 2 billion kuna. Now we can set up here all together we here think that we are in the Parliament that we have decent receipts somewhere around 15 thousand kuna, you can go to the bank, you can get, on those 15 can give you another minus 15. And there's no way you'll get more by all their rules and procedures. You can get an apartment, you get an apartment, you get an apartment, you stock up, and you know what kind of apartment you can have on 15 thousand kuna so you can get a flat of about 50, 60 square meters maximum where you have to give a guarantee. Now I'm asking you how it's possible that the same business banks they've been saying all along, and why I'm telling you this, because the main generators of the problem that happened in the economy all these years when they were positive years. All the time we've been saying it's the state's fault. I'm telling you that it's not the state's fault for these minuses and for things because simply when you lose your budget, the values, the companies lost more than 100 billion kunas of revenue from 2008 to 2013, 100 billion kunas of income lost the economy, lost the economy. And what happens to you all of a sudden? You experience a strong drop in income, a strong drop in budget revenue, and simply all deficits emerge in the budget. The deficits are emerging because you simply can't finance anymore because your income has dropped to 10, to 15 billion kuna. Just comparisons now to see what small economic growth means, etc. I remember very well when we had a profit tax of about 3.5 to 4 billion kuna a year ago, now it's 7 billion kuna, 7 billion kuna, so 3 billion kuna more in profit tax in a few. VAT, I remember very well 38, 39 billion kuna, today VAT 44 billion kuna. Imagine what it's like to run public finances when you have 10 billion kuna more than VAT, from profit taxes, etc., etc. Then we're not talking today, we're not talking about abolishing and reducing pensions, etc., and these other things. However, it was necessary at that time when there was a very, very strong economic recession that affected Croatia, which has never happened in 25 years, to get Croatia out of the crisis. And all the time we've been trying to detect what these problems are and that's why I've come back to these citizens, how is it possible that some, ten of those citizens owe 2.5 billion kuna? I'm setting up for institutions now. And what do they want now? You can't get tax-recognized expenses on that, Mr. Bankers, you can't. Why? Well, because you haven't properly managed your risks. Because the Bank Act defines who manages the risks. How is it possible that such placements could have been made, and now to push it to the burden of the Croatian budget to write it off now and to get it tax-recognised expenditure. All the time we've been talking, let's make some criteria. That's a bigger problem than the Swiss franc. The whole time I was actually talking about the main causes of the problem, the problems in the economy. And in this report it's very clear, there's no credit activity of banks. We can't have an economy unless we have credit activities for banks because you simply can't encourage aggregate demand, you can't. And that's why the measures of those we've been doing, and that's why I said that I also support one government measure when they talked about income discharges, about income discharges, normally that's good, and that's why when we criticized and when it was 2011, and we all remember the crisis tax when an additional 3 billion kuna was taken by introducing a crisis tax just further deepened the recession. And those weren't the right measures because it was even more... aggregate demand outwards. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's why I said that I support income relief, but it won't give you as much wave as you think it will. And I am glad that now Minister Maric says more don't expect too much of the tax reform because he won't be able to give it so much. Because 60%, I said households, income, most of the income actually in the past has grown to debt, has not grown to the growth of income of the population. And this effect of 2 billion kuna he will give, will give one effect. However, only the right discharge of the household will happen when the banks but in one fair way you dissipate, clear their balances from such bad placements and not from those plasmas that they gave to their friends, because you can say right away, they didn't give it to citizens, they didn't give it to citizens because a citizen can't get such criteria, he can't out of debt. And that's why we've been spinning all the time, and now we're talking about doing the budget. We can, this is just an act, a budget, implementation of budgets and overall economic activities, overall economic activities and detecting problems in society. If you detect it, and if you see it in the European Commission report, when it spoke to Croatia, every year when it gives us a deep analysis of the state of macroeconomic imbalances in the Republic of Croatia, unfortunately there is little to talk about, it is precisely telling you about the over-indebted share of private debt, i.e. the debt of citizens and long corporations, which unfortunately in Croatia for 6.7 years has no impact and has no certain changes. So when we talk and detect problems and we actually did it, we talked about it, and that's why all the measures that went for that reinvested profit that I'm sorry the minister is, even though it says very few companies used reinvested profits and look at the size of the profit tax. So would there have been so much profit tax if it hadn't been for the reinvested profits? Would that be so much? If, O.K., I say, we can agree again if it believes that this measure is more cracked, that it has not given certain measures to go by reducing the overall profit tax rate from 20 to 18 or by reducing the minimum. And we'll support that. So it's no problem. However, in this context, it did measure because only, you will see in tomorrow's budget rebalancing you already have a billion-and-a-half kuna profit tax only because companies have better achieved business results in 2015, in the last year of Zoran Milanovic's term. So there were measures, however measures were given and the effects were actually going to be shown in 2016 and 2017. So in this context it is also necessary to look at the implementation of the budget, not only for 2015 but also for 2016, although you were mostly a technical government, mostly a technical government because the first 3 months were temporarily funded because it was not, so the temporary funding then you can't actually execute but as you were given and already in 6 months then the government fell and you simply had to maintain only the technical part and these were certain positive effects from 2014 and 2015. And that is why it is good for this measure of tax reform to give one part, how can I tell the economy and citizens to shift this effect and to still feel the economy in 2017 and 2018. But deep down, if we want to solve it and realize the right measures, it will be even more time. And just very briefly for the review report we certainly support it and what is actually more would be said about the systematic problem-solving of these particular shortcomings and the introduction of new methodologies and perhaps later on I will talk about the ESA methodology. Because today we are talking about methodology, the national methodology, however, is also a one-off deficit, but when we bring in this ESA methodology, then we are talking about completely different amounts. And that's why we may need to think in the future, and that's why I told the Finance Committee to introduce an ESA methodology when we talk about it in the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18442	Thank you, Agent Lalovec. Mr. Maras picked up the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18443	Thank you very much, Mr. President. To accept this until the amendments to the Rules of Procedure, until we change our Rules of Procedure to catch more chances at our own club. [[/Intruder President: What?]] Thank you very much Mr. Lalovec has said one thing that needs to be remembered for future debates. In 2011, 7.8% of GDP deficit, and 2015. 3.2%. And that's Mr. Lalovec's huge margin of 4.6% of GDP, and when you mention these income things that change, it's basically the real question that we're going to ask Minister Maric tomorrow if he comes in the morning. Which is why it is necessary to take the hosts 1.5 billion kuna if only on profit tax rebalancing in 2016 increases 1 billion and 200 million kuna. And on this side, it is essentially seen that trends are positive, that they can be invested in certain sectors, that there is no need to abolish that VAT rate, on the other hand, this relief that you said was also a good tax reduction for small entrepreneurs is 400 million kuna per year. So on the one hand, we get 1 billion and 200 and on the other hand we give and release with 400 million kuna. And what is particularly important to me is that you may be counting on it after Mr. Bulj said and the auditor Klesic will also probably comment on what it means and what it means to assume that it is not everything and that it is not possible to determine whether everything is recorded. Whether these are accounts such as Croatia's traffic renaissance, whether these are accounts such as perhaps the winner of the local self-government strategy, which now brings charges against former and current HDZ officials to Omis or other matters. So when we talk about something not being recorded, it's very important to say what it's about, and maybe it can help here the assistant minister who's directly in charge of it as assistant secretary of the Treasury to make it clear in the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18444	I'd like to thank Agent Maras. Is there an answer to the replica? Representative Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18445	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Maras so let me tell you once again, it's not the same thing to run finance when you have -25 billion and you have an economy of - aggregated 10% and you have +3% and you have all the positive trends. However, very briefly I would talk about this last thing you were actually saying. Oh, it's not about any bad and wrong showings. We talked all the time about the methodology and presentation of our own and dedicated incomes that we started to introduce in 2015. Also getting HZZO kicked out of the treasury. So that year 2015-2014 was simply not comparable. Furthermore, regarding these costs, which some have said, it is very clear in the implementation of the 2015 budget that all has reached and unpaid liabilities. So it's also an additional one to me that brings transparency that's good because we're all talking when one government stays, of the other that there's no cost left, there's no certain tails left, and that's where you see certain minuses, but in the most part in the health system. So the health care system that we've rescheduled is still some part of it unpaid. Today, the minister and we'll see tomorrow, the health minister is talking about a health minus of 2.5 billion to 3 billion kuna, and there's no budgeting in tomorrow's rebalancing. So if we're talking about such methodologies, it's not that someone wasn't paying certain bills and so, it's that way of covering and showing in these financial reports, and all of the time it really has to be extended to the full coverage of all these measures. So when it's actually about the determination of the methodology and we know for ourselves that this budget that was made by one methodology is also revised by EUROSTAT. So it's not possible that some things if they didn't actually say and I'm here to support the State Audit Office report, I think it's good to have it and it should be discussed and it also means everything when you get it one more time, EUROSTAT combs all that data and ultimately that on its pages how real the deficit is. So, as far as some of these things are concerned, I think that's the kind of time behind us.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18446	Thank you, Agent Lalovec. The replica was also reported by representative Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18447	Thank you very much, President. So respecting all this that my colleague Lalovec said that now actually the indicators are much better and that's the work of the previous period. We must not forget that the previous government was actually working under the conditions of a complete crisis, a global crisis which had a significant impact on the entire environment and on us and on the achievement of revenue in our state budget by 2011. So that deficit that appeared there was not only caused by one reason but certainly a lot more reason for that. And in that environment, when certain preconditions were to be created for continuing or leaving the crisis, surely you have made certain measures and what you have done contribute to correcting the whole situation. And also what we know is that in finance and in the budget nothing happens overnight and it always takes a certain time and at least two to three years to actually feel the effects. And that's what we can't forget, so always one continuity. However, in what you have said to the ESA model and everything else, it is therefore very important to say that the other users who have entered the system now of the general budget also do not respect certain provisions of the law, and so does the revision of what I am talking about. So there's a need to say that the synergy of all together should be [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18448	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18449	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, yeah, so when we talk methodology, it's big problems. You will see, unfortunately, I met with this and this part of the deficit that was put in your entire shipbuilding, meaning the cost of shipbuilding was put into the budget as HBOR was put into the budget, so BINA Istria was put into your budget, so Zagreb Airport was put into your budget. So you've been put into utility companies, we want to talk about PGI Holding if it gets into the budget. That's what I'm talking about. So these are also very big problems for the adoption of economic policies if you define the statistical coverage of data in this way. That's what happened to the Greeks, so they made problems, so EUROSTAT came to them and put everything into their budget, so I can't anymore, they have problems. That's what happened to the Italians because they had a number of utility companies that funded their projects. Then EUROSTAT came to them and put everything into their budget. It happened in Croatia. And that part where we talk about the share of public debt because it's simply all recorded under the scope of the state is a much wider definition of the state. And the state in the future will no longer have these mechanisms like it did ten years ago, that we will be able to finance roads, highways, utility companies, all that it will be able to finance by establishing the d.o.o. businesses and thus encourage economic growth. It is precisely because many countries have done so that you have very high limits on EUROSTAT's statistical activities in financing. And you'll see, it means every investment and because I've told you, without telling you about Croatian railways, HZ passenger transport, HZ Cargo. Anything that actually touches, comes to you from the Commission and tells us to put it in the budget. Leading such a policy when all this is pushed into your budget, and you have an economy that kneels very hard. That's all I've warned you about, and now I'm glad that my colleague has the space to actually lead for the first time in years of recession, that he has the opportunity to show that he can still lead. Because the difference is when you have one embrace, when you have another. A very strong pressure is then working on state finances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18450	I'd like to thank Agent Lalovec. The HDZ representative's club reported for participation in the debate and on their behalf, representatives Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18451	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues. Here is although much has already been said from the report itself and the promoter and other colleagues, I must note, however, that what is very important that we have repeated several times, that precisely macroeconomic indicators tell us that the policy and trend of change has actually been in the right direction, and that this six-year negative trend has been halted, and that the economic growth that is small, but significant for us, I think that it tells us a lot, and that in this direction we really need to do as best and as much as possible so that this future tax reform really gets the best results. What may not be mentioned, and it is very important to say that among other indicators, the administrative unemployment rate before this period of 19.6 is now reduced to 17.7%, which is actually 1.9 percentage points lower than 2014 very much, because this means that the increase in the number of employees from 1.1% has reached a million 356 thousand employees. We know how symbolic the relationship between employees is and what is the ratio between employees and pensioners which should be a very important indicator and try to increase these ratios to actually make our entire system that we know is very fragile, so that it can also be retired as such. In positive movements, it is important to note that it happened both in industrial production, so in retail trade, tourism is constantly highlighted and I do hope that with the possible additions and amendments to certain regulations, that some significant shifts in this sense and in these branches of production will not happen that there will be a fall and positive of these movements. When we talk about revenues here, the secretary mentioned how much this was achieved, then it is important to say that incomes have grown especially in the tax group and, in particular, profit tax and value added tax, and the same thing as income tax if compared to 2014 it is as much as 47%. With value added tax, this is a 6.5% increase compared to 2014 and a profit tax is 10.4%. What makes me happy is that the revenues from the aid have also increased, and that means that the share of EU funds and projects financed from EU funds has increased as a growth of 113.8% of which is when we look at the structure here, which is explained and given that more than 94% of the aid is related to the EU funds themselves, and this particularly concerned Schengen capacities and direct payments in agriculture. If, however, we note that in this 2015, and it has already been mentioned that HZZO came out of the Treasury, I also did when it was brought personally I did not agree, although I was not directly involved in the state budget, but I think it is in such a way that HZZO did not even realize how much burden it took on itself. And then about that, I can say that this review report that said that 2.4 billion is not defined exactly as it relates and that's one of the objections just financing. I don't think that in this transitional period neither the Ministry of Finance could create criteria nor properly identify and say this here is funded by the criteria and that's exactly what it is, but what the ESA model requires, indeed, for any aid and for any aid and grant should have a elaborate methodology. I think that we will still be waiting for them through this year to do a big job only for financing the Croatian Institute or hospitals, because until we solve the entire funding system or we see the real causes of such great costs and until the costs within the system are balanced, it will not be possible to recognise it in the frameworks that we expect, or there will still be the need for co-financing in this way from the state budget, or another model that is still likely to be introduced. When we talk about expenditures, however, 98.3% were achieved compared to the planned funds, but they are also significantly lower than in 2014 and 8.9 billion kuna or 7%. This is commendable, but we must know that also in one period there were no certain purchases, or the work of the technical government was limited, so perhaps this is one of the reasons why there was no higher expenditure. When I refer to the State Audit report, then I must also say that one of the objections is the adoption of written procedures for handling property, real estate, shares and shares, so I think it was usually the task of all starting with units of local self-government, regional and state budgets, and I think it is in that sense that the state budget will surely insist on it, especially given the formation of a new ministry. I also think it is necessary to lay down certain rules that will regulate the methodology of planning. But you know exactly what I was saying earlier is you need all the participants who are in the state budget system as users and now in the consolidated budget to really respect equal procedures and laws and there are no exceptions then both to the state budget and to whoever plans at that level will be much easier. Here is one of the orders and a recommendation that the Law on Protection against Essential Accidents is in fact that the decision on the allocation of funds is not made by the Croatian Parliament but by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I think in the very process that this should not be a problem at all and that operationality in that sense when anything happens to damages from elemental disasters that would really be much more operational and better, and I think there is really no reason not to do so. But yet trying to unite somehow these two reports, I think that all of this seemed and did all these years, it was really very difficult in terms of starting up the entire economy, and I also have to mention exactly the huge debts and claims that also the state budget, and then, indirectly, everyone else also has contributions from both the profit tax and the VAT claim it was eventually published during the government, yours, Mr Milanovic. So there are also huge ballasts who have actually braked the entire system and where, in fact, the basic problem of non-functioning is actually the internal system of payment and regulation although the law has been passed in this sense, but we see that this law that speaks about 30 days and 60 days of payment that it did not, it did not revive with reality because ultimately we have in health itself, here is a debt that relates to large drugstores that are actually 300 and 400 days old. This is what I believe is that the internal system of payment and protection of creditors must be very important and that there is much more to be done in this system to make it functional. And it certainly is very important if we are talking about loans and assets then we must also run legal frameworks in order to really protect ourselves and allow this task to be totaled by what you mentioned by individuals themselves cannot. It is covered with certain assets but this property is safe and clearly not adequately placed into operation or cannot be sold because the market clearly stops. And in this way we have bank placements that are really huge now and at the same time we have a large number of participants who are actually not liquid and who have huge problems and with these problems they have choked a lot of small creditors who can't survive in this way. Even with pre-fashion deals, these small creditors are severely damaged because they have paid their VAT obligations at the same time and cannot collect their claims. So a lot of situations and a lot of different actions happened in the meantime, and that's why it might be necessary at a certain point to cut that agony so that the internal markets would actually be cost-effective and that then, but then really by controlling and insisting they try to respect the laws the way they actually do with the letter of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18452	I thank Representative Peric. Representative Branimir Bunjac first called for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18453	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues Peric, so you are right when you say that Croatia has huge debts and you are right when you say that Croatia is in agony, but this statistics that you have now stated does not essentially show that this agony will stop because it is partly a factory statistics that looks more beautiful than it is in reality, and on the other hand, the measures that this Government is taking in 2016 and announces for 2017 clearly indicate that a very fast fall in VAT and a continuation of borrowing will occur. When I say it's a factory statistic, you're saying unemployment is going down, and then employment should grow. It should be more employed if the unemployed are less, however, according to statistics from the State Statistics Institute last year, there were more employees than this year. So actually, the number of employees actually also decreased, which means that people moved out or simply checked out of the stock market and unfortunately died and that's the reason for the statistical indicator of the unemployment decline. So the number of employees is smaller. And on the other hand, I don't know how you think you're going to have a sustainable budget, and here today, the unions of public services have filed lawsuits, and these lawsuits should cost a budget during your term, maybe up to seven to eight billion kuna, which you've waited from 1.3 until now, your government that you've done nothing about it? And now you're going to have to pay all that money out of your budget along with interest and expenses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18454	Thank you for the reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18455	Statistics are strange and the fact that there is no parallel number and growth of employees in relation to the unemployed, there is certainly part of this monitoring methodology, and it is certain that it is part of this monitoring methodology and that it is certain that it is part of the market for certain reasons. But it's also the fact that an increase in employment is evident. What is also certain is that certain collective agreements have been put on hold or have been prolonged for a certain period. Surely this period has probably passed and now it is necessary to find models and ways to honour these collective agreements. It is the government, this government that will surely solve a part of the problem and try to amortise all that pressure. I believe that it was also previous, that it wasn't the technical government that it was that it would already be partially and installed, as it was partly returned to that stake of 4, 6 and 8% for loyalty in the service. Therefore, for everything there is a way to resolve it over a certain period of time has had to be revised and put on hold, but I believe that, over a certain period, certain rights will be recovered and what is safe and the intensity of each government will be returned.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18456	Thank you. The next representative to report for the replica is representative Nada Turina-Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18457	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here we all are today, although we are a little bit glad to listen to Mr. Secretary of State and a colleague of Lalovec who has recently led it all together, so here are his colleagues from HDZ on behalf of the club, that the indicators for 2015 were good, to show good trends, we see that for 2016 these trends are also still in potential I would say growth. And that's something that's nice for all of us to agree on, you're colleagues of the new MP, so I don't know if you followed the parliamentary debate two, three years ago, we couldn't talk about it so idyllically, the attacks were on all sides. And I am glad that everything that has happened in recent years has gone from HDZ to your mouths on behalf of HDZ in order to start the economy and improve the overall economic and financial situation in Croatia. And what I wanted to add is not mentioned in the context of all these positive indicators, and today we had one debate before this discussion on Montenegro, NATO and otherwise had a frequent debate on the EU, and Mr Lalovec said in his debate that individual situations that take place, or which are proposed as measures, have an effect on the budget only at some point in time of one year or two days. And no one mentioned a very important fact and often here some colleagues are terribly against it, so I think it's important to stress. Croatia entered the EU in 2013, gained the possibility of a new market of more than 500 million inhabitants, gained new opportunities, new chances, and I believe it is certain that some analyses at the Ministry of Finance can also provide concrete information that this entry into the EU and the opportunities for our producers and exporters have brought among other things these good indicators. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18458	Thank you, Representative Đuric. Reply to the replica Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18459	Look, I'm trying to be objective about what's going on, but at the time when tax, the mini tax reform was then I was very angry with Mr. Lalovec because directly at the time in the city budget I had 10 million, 11 million from income tax less. Now, what this Government is now, that is, the advantage of the current budget is as much as promised for next year to keep this level of income tax and really keep all that income that, that is, to increase the share of income tax so that these units of local and regional self-government are liquid. And here they showed that in the general budget they really had plus and contributed to it all. Indeed, in 2015 income from income tax began to return to the level that was in 2014 and that was what was good. But, i.e. here in 2016, but I'm saying this government is doing it even though we didn't have much communication with the ministry at the time, but then it was very difficult to cut budgets and actually don't know what you can expect from income tax, which is the highest source of income. And in that sense, this government that has now promised that no larger earthquakes will happen to me is very important to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18460	Thank you. The next representative to report for individual participation in the debate is MP Josip Boris. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18461	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, the Honorable State Auditor, colleagues and colleagues. So this topic is always grateful, unfortunately it came at a time, a little today we're all tired after all day, otherwise we always discuss it in the first half of the year but for various events it caught us here at the end of the year when most of this time we're discussing the financial documents of many institutions from the CNB, HBOR, we have now budget implementation for 2015, we have rebalance tomorrow, so the new budget, tax reform and it's good to discuss these topics that some others have disappeared from this assembly. In a way, we can say this is one of the last documents of the famous Kukuriku government, some kind of final welcome to the effects of the Kukuriku government. Because in 2015, it showed that it could be better, better quality than it was in 2012, 2013 and 2014 when we witnessed GDP declines, we witnessed the entry into the excessive deficit process, the huge increase in public debt, and the abandonment of SDP from many reforms that could be called meaningful. It seems to me that everything was bad while... it insisted Plan 21 when Mr Milanovic said it was better there in 2015. Today we're listening here, here we heard the SDP exposure, everything was great, we left you great results. All that's good is the credit of some former government. Everything that has been going on over the past year has been wrong, but this good result has enabled all the other* good results that appear somewhere on the horizon that we discuss here every day. And then it seems to me that the people simply didn't understand them, twice he showed them the red card exactly on those super scores and then for me as a failure the government in the history of the Republic of Croatia as well as for the people will simply remain misunderstood. Because today I'm trying to find out where you gentlemen spent 80 billion public debt in four years. And we can't figure out the answer to that question, and I've asked it at least a dozen times in the past time in this House. Because some major infrastructure projects were gone, there were no major constructions of any highway, of all things the railways gave up here and there survival. You're just wondering where your money went and we never got an explanation of where it went. When we look at a little better division, we see that those who call themselves the most for bad conditions, let's say, first of all, the Parliament, then the Government, and then the Office of the President, in 2015, reduced all their costs and at least a dozen percent, which is not insignificant. When we start comparing it to other sections, we come up with a variety of numbers. So I'm trying to figure out which map was played by the government and it's very clear, I say when they were you, pre-election times are visible to say in the division of the Civil Society Associations office one increase gave up on that, that he didn't promise anything. And then it kind of went from kind of 110 to 124 million. When compared to 2014 and so was 2015 and we will have a report very quickly on the agenda on the work of civil society associations we can determine that about 650 million kuna is allocated to civil society associations at year level, 150 million kuna goes to associations for people with disabilities, for people with special needs, etc. And we're just wondering why and how much of that money is leaking towards these associations. When we compare it to some other sections, let's say here it says in this material that is really large, over a thousand and a half pages just explaining the budget of a variety of figures that we simply can't come up with in these debates of ten minutes. But here's help to local self-government units. So the 650 association, and the local self-government, 675 million from that so-called. the compensation fund with which the SDP boasted, and today it attacks the minister that he will repay the funds although he has made it clear that everything he takes in agreement with the Association of Cities and municipalities, the County Association, in accordance with the Article of the law that will come into debate when the budget is returned by the sixth month. All that are the negativeities of the impact of income tax and that until then, a way will be found to address the overall financing of local self-government units. What the SDP promised us when he was changing, means income tax, i.e. That law, when they took a billion and 800 million kuna. They also said they'd come back. But we see from the execution of 675 million kuna, one third. When we look at the other divisions, we can determine who the most successful ministers were. I'm sorry one of them left. Certainly the most successful in its realization was the Minister of entrepreneurship and crafts. He had 700 million kuna in his division, spent 370 million. Barely 50% in a year of his work, which of course does not prevent him from teaching economics to everyone here and, of course, giving his solutions daily which should mean something better than what he did, and he didn't seem to be doing anything by these results. And the second most successful behind it is the former minister of regional development and EU funds. He had 707 million on his, in his ministry, and he managed to spend the whole 400. So one ministry that is strongest, which needs to be pulled, which should be helped, especially undeveloped, especially assisted areas spend 50% of their division. So we're wondering what you've been doing for a year? And of course, when it comes to the opposition, it knows everything, it gives everyone normal solutions, and the result behind it is truly catastrophic, you'll agree. All other ministers were at 90. 95% of the impact of their own in 2015. As far as the audit itself is concerned, very briefly. I think the conditional opinion clearly states that the government obviously did not respect one part of the recommendations and that it left them to someone next to fully respect them and to continue working on them. What's the point? Here's just a few of them. By the end of 2015, a large part of EU funds have simply not been used specifically for the financial period 2007-2013. In particular, the IPARD and all the other stories that have been discussed here for days have been told about it for days. However, when we compare the effect of the minister himself who was in charge and we see this as simply a man did not understand what was his job at all. A public debt management strategy for the post-2013 period has not been established. It was the same topic in this House, and we were told to solve it through the state budget, by showing the deficit. And then we wonder how we grew by 80 billion in four years. Simple. Neither did the one who existed, nor did the new one. Of course, a little commitment has been made to do so. I don't know if Mr. Lalovec has arrived in his term to do anything about it. And what might be the most important. In the main book, the government budget in the balance sheet with 31.12 is not recorded full data on state property. We have witnessed here a strange affair that came out there at the beginning of the year, the DUUDI affair unproved means the values of the property, especially the shares... amounting to 16 billion kuna, the SDP's answer was nothing wrong with us. So in a story that looked more like unseriousness than serious state leadership, we came to the point that after two choices, we once again have the opportunity to fix many of these things that seem to be illogical. But funny, to me, at least since I've been here for a long time, the discussions that come from the other side look, and this execution, as well as the whole policy that's been going on, shows all the weaknesses of one policy that the people twice said they're misunderstood and that they deserve to get twice the red card, just to redact yourself to find a way to impose because only criticism or now the subsequent mind is no longer coming to me among the Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18462	I thank Representative Boric. Replicant representative Boris Lalovac is in charge.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18463	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's my colleague Boric, so I don't know if he listened to me very carefully, so I've commended one piece of it all the time, that's always my personal point of view when I commend some part of it, and I think it's good, and that's this part of the income discharge. I was skeptical of the part about raising the VAT rate from 5% to 12%, where I said I was skeptical. There's something I've been boasting, something I've been trying to say that part isn't good, and I'm always trying to talk to the arguments. So it's not true that some good things give away everything that was good and that was inherited, I think it should be continuity. You've said two more things here that I think you're talking about, and it's about this success and the failure of certain ministers. Here we can also talk about weaknesses in any way improve systems, you have talked about policy weaknesses, and I can answer about the weaknesses and possibilities of the system so that it can absorb these EU funds. We all knew, I was the first to be critical of my own ministers when we did some part of the planning for EU funds and when we said people my people couldn't accomplish this, not because we didn't want to, but simply the capacity and the system couldn't give it to you. What's going to happen to you? It happens to you the same way, so I won't tell you that then you... some bad policies. You planned 9.7 billion kunas from the EU this year, you're 8.4, you've already made six. I want to tell you that these are the weaknesses of your policies. I think that the system's weaknesses are in any way improving administrative capacity so that we can withdraw all these certain funds, so that mixing certain policies I think the policies have the desire to withdraw that part of the money from Europe, and here we need to find out how all the systems that work and which plan to get to the withdrawal of that money. These are the two big differences to get away from that SDP, the HDZ, is this where everyone who works for the government works for their country to withdraw as much money as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18464	Thank you, Agent Lalovec. Reply to the replica, MP Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18465	Thank you very much. Comrade Lalovec, you say something I accept or praise, etc. But it's not like that. We see that you are in a vote against tax reform, you are opposed to disbursing income to get citizens and what little they can get in view of how much they pay taxes, and that you knew very well and I don't know why you're saying that someone with 3.5 thousand 4, can't get 7 grand, so because he didn't even pay that kind of tax. You did your reforms and those who had salaries don't know 3,500 kuna then you got 50 kuna, but you said a million people would get a bigger salary, I remember that. That's why it's not clear to me that you're against it, that you're against discharging citizens, against unloading the economy. Then you honor our banks and write off our debts. Well, in your 2013 law, 12 billion have already been written off 2 billion 700 sold, let's say, if further sues. And you're saying how are you going to ensure that? Well, I trust the minister who said we're going to the final write-off, so I guess we won't be able to write anything anymore if we finally write it off. As far as success is concerned, well, only in the farm's portfolio did we see one marked failure, and thus did not achieve 7.5 billion kuna. Just because of one minister, we lost 500 million kuna and its ineffectiveness, regardless of the problems that the technical government has shown, not the technical government, but the government that it left before. It's just that the man didn't know, and now he's got a problem. And as for weakness, I think that... the weakness to take 6 billion if in your time we took 3.5 or barely 4 billion and you see for yourself that the results of the Ministry of Regional Development of your main economic strategy were catastrophic for the first three years of EU membership. That's really how it is, and you have to admit it once because the citizens themselves saw it. I think it's going for the better, and we need continuity, but we need a little bit of your understanding and community to get those things better and then deny everyone's pleasure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18466	I thank Representative Boric. Representative Miro Bulj has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18467	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You've mentioned to my colleague that it's a little late, that we're tired, but here we are. You noticed well, and I also notice, and I see that you are financially quite written, so can you state your position that it is possible that the government that was three months, everyone has declared it the worst government in Croatia's history has the best and most effective results so far in the history of the Republic of Croatia, we see that mainly in the last 15, 20 years means a government that has not worked, as they say has the best and most effective results. The facts say that it's obviously better when we don't have the government as they were before, because that's an indicator of the results we have in 2016. You mentioned very important EU funds that were not used. It is very important to note that we are paying the membership fee neatly, and it is also very important that we get EU funds, and it might be better if we did not get an example in agriculture. The money went to those who are essentially importers of this garbage and waste in the chain of commerce where our citizens go and get sick because we see that there is an increase in the number of various diseases of this waste. You mentioned undeveloped areas, of course, that the Turkish Empire was a larger number of inhabitants and less damage in these areas, the state was so centralized that only the Republic of Croatia were literally wiped off the face of the country, the young people leave daily, we have no perspective and, of course, this government has to be credible by those parts, decentralised because not everything in Zagreb and not only can the lights of Zagreb be attractive to all the citizens of the Republic but it must be territorial dissatisfaction but I am interested in your answer to my question that I asked you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18468	Thank you, Agent Buljo. Reply to the replica, MP Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18469	Thank you very much. My colleague Bulj, every question asks for an answer, so we'll answer. As for the worst government in history, we didn't make it up, there was one, one let's say world organization and she was working out a ranking list of the most successful and the Kukuriku government was 6th of the end, so from the last, there was somewhere I think 140 states in competition. So we didn't make it up ourselves, and we didn't make it up and say it, so to make them angry, they just figured out that they were the worst and they had a lot of reasons to do it. One reason was the EU funds. Let's say the implementation of the 2015 budget said that they had to pay almost half a billion less than was planned, and that it was some kind of help, and that the result was ultimately something better than was expected of themselves, and in the end I even surprised them because they no longer believed that they could do anything after the three failed years in which they interpreted us as saying that even the fall could be growth. We've heard that a few times when it falls that it can be growth. And the regional development policy really didn't know how to lead or lead except that they did damage there, and we clearly warned them especially towards the mountainous and mountainous areas, here's the Gorski Kotar without 50 million kuna, and then they told them we'd pay you back through the compensation fund. You know what that looked like? They sent the Law on Roads in the procedure in the first reading and remained in the procedure of this same law and said in 2015 there at 6 months we will pay you all municipalities cleaning, winter cleaning and maintenance of unclassified roads. Neither the law was passed, nor the money was received, they went away, and the rest of the care was left to everyone else. That's how they solved a lot of problems, so promise, don't commit and accuse another of not knowing anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18470	Thank you, Representative Boric. The next representative to report for individual participation in the debate is MP Dragica Roscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18471	Thank you, Mr. President, I would like to welcome my colleagues from the Ministry of Finance, my colleagues from the State Audit Office. Here's what I'm curious about is how so many deviations from the plan are possible from the execution. When I saw the rebalancing of this budget at the end of the year, he looked very encouraging but wasn't real. In the Next Journal, the rebalancing was published on 25.9., and it is not and I find it difficult technically to imagine reasons that could not really have been predicted and a little better predicted real execution. For example, we have a VAT, the plan was 42.2 billion, it was reached 43.5, so even more revenue was achieved. We have one deviation of 700 million kuna, but that's one less deviation. And an even bigger and more prominent deviation is visible in the aid revenue item and I see that we have touched that and that is what I am particularly interested in. We were planning to help, so at a level of 7.1. billion kuna and we only achieved 70%, about 5 billion, so we had a deviation of 2 billion kuna. The worst of these revenues is recorded EU funds revenues. What does that mean? It means that in 2015, we did not take seriously the challenges and possibilities of funding or we did not take the lack of funding until the end of the year, and we did not change these expectations at all, as well as the opportunities that are ahead of us when we are a full member of the EU because, as we know, the funds that we have opened up at that time were six times as high as they were in the pre-accession period for a total of 5 years. It is important to say that the Rural Development Programme was approved in mid-2015, and measure 4 itself was announced before the programme was approved, so the whole implementation stopped and the question of whether or not it was the cause of this derogation. The budget gives us a real answer. I also know that the European Social Fund is in individual tenders, I personally wrote one rating with 94.5 points of 100, and we should have signed the contract and thanks to the government, or the implementing bodies, slowed down this whole contract signing process, Croatia has lost 30 million kuna. So our government's mistakes even though the projects have been assessed very high. How did that affect the expenditure side? The same is presented as savings and let's see what we've been saving on? We have an operational programme of competitiveness of cohesion... 7 links and mobility carried out within the Maritime Ministry. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we predicted 17 million kunas that we could spend on connecting our coastal areas and islands without using anything. We have the IPA 2 program, the Adriatic cross-border cooperation program, and we used 70, slightly more than 72 million kuna than planned 2 million, so we did that item about 4%, below 4%. This is all small compared to what we see in the following paragraphs, we say that young people are leaving that they are out of work and in an operational programme of effective human potentials since '14. Until '20. Almost 500 million kunas are planned and we've achieved 179 million kunas. The municipalities and cities didn't get any better. For example, were we not able to provide even planned national assistance to municipalities and cities and their institutions where, for example, we planned 4 million kuna for activities A 54, 5070 and we meant 2.7 million kuna. The overall significant deviation on the expenditure side for the acquisition of non-financial assets does not mean that we have not been saving but that we have not implemented capital projects and investments and that they are lower than planned and we have not actually used EU funds. Unfortunately.../The speaker did not understand./... was also trying to present as savings and it is positive to save on material costs, representations, lunches, fuel and the like, but this is not savings. This means that there is a lack of investment and a lack of use of European funds, and I am glad that here we are at the end of this debate and agreed in previous replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18472	I thank Representative Roscic. The replica was reported by the representative of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18473	... that at the end of today, we discussed this detail. [[Specially enabled.]] In fact, when we look at this report on the implementation of the state budget, we note that there is a significant disproportionate effect across all ministries between planned and achieved funds from EU funds. Some, however, are much larger somewhere, but it is literally present in all ministries. Which can therefore prejudge two answers to this question. One is that our personnel are unable to attract the EU funds or to fill out the necessary documentation or b) that ways of obtaining these funds are deliberately made so complicated that they cannot actually be fulfilled. Now, to answer this question in some way, it is my opinion that we in Croatia have enough smart people to fill out that documentation and that we are actually not in any kind of trouble. I personally know and I have seen and helped with some EU projects, some have 600 pages, 800 pages, 1000 pages. This is something amazing how much paperwork is needed to complete an EU project and the rules are so rigorous that for some smallest little thing one account that lacks funds is done, etc. So I think that, in fact, these EU funds are one myth, one EU propaganda that needs to calm Croatian citizens with some hope for a better tomorrow and, in fact, I think that the Croatian budget suffers more damage than it benefits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18474	I'd like to thank Mr. Bunjec. Reply to the replica of Representative Rosčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18475	... [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-23-0.u18476	I thank Representative Roscic. We've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow we will continue to work, the first two points in the united debate will be the proposal for a half-yearly report on the implementation of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2016 and a proposal for a half-yearly report of the fiscal rules for the first half of 2016, as well as a proposal for amending and supplementing the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2016 and a projection for 2017 and 2018. Thank you. Session interrupted at 1910 hours. The next item is the proposal for an annual report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2015 and the proposal for an annual report on the application of the fiscal rules for 2015. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the draft annual report on the implementation of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2015. Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most votes are 99 for, 6 abstentions and 3 against an annual report on the implementation of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2015. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the basis of the provisions of Article 111, The budget law, I first vote on the Decision on Consensus on the Annual Report on the implementation of the financial plan of the Croatian Waters for 2015. Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the vote is 99 for, 8 abstentions and a decision has been made as proposed. Third, I am voting on the decision to give consent to the Annual Report on the implementation of the Croatian Roads financial plan for 2015. Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most votes are 100 for, 9 abstentions and 1 against decisions. 4. I am voting in favour of the decision to give consent to the Annual Report on the implementation of the State Agency's financial plan for the insurance of savings deposits and the resolution of banks for 2015. Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes are 101 for, nine abstentions and none against the decision made as proposed by the board. 5. I am voting in favour of the decision to give consent to the Annual Report on the implementation of the Financial Plan of the Centre for Restructuring and Sales for 2015. Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. I find that with most votes with 101 for, 10 abstentions and no one against the decision being made. Six. I am voting in favour of the annual report on the implementation of the 2015 financial plan of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. Please, let's get involved and vote. The vote is over. I find that with 103 votes for, 7 abstentions and none against a decision made in accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The fiscal liability law and Article 18(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union shall apply. Regulation on the establishment and transmission of a declaration of fiscal responsibility and of a report on the application of fiscal rules. I am voting in the Annual Report on the application of fiscal rules for 2015. Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes are 102 for, 5 abstentions and 3 against the annual report on the application of fiscal rules for 2015.
