ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1642	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1643	Mr. Branko Greek.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1644	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1645	Mr. Sinisha Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1646	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1647	Mr. Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1648	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1649	Mr. Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1650	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1651	Mr. Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1652	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1653	Mr. Predrag Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1654	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1655	Mr. Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1656	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1657	Mr. Orsat Milenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1658	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1659	Mrs. Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1660	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1661	Mr. Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1662	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1663	Mrs. Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1664	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1665	Mrs. Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1666	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1667	Mr. Ranko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1668	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1669	Mr. Tomislav Sauch.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1670	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1671	Mr. Sinisha Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1672	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1673	Mr. Ivan Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1674	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1675	And Mr. Michael Zmajlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1676	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1677	Thank you very much. Congratulations to the MPs and MPs on their sworn oath and I wish them success in carrying out this honorable and responsible parliamentary duty. That's what we're done with this part. [[Applause]] Good morning, colleagues and colleagues! We'd like to start with today's work. Here we would begin first with the oath of our colleague Boris Lalovec, who was prevented from doing so when others did. So here I have to read, so in accordance with Article 7 it has been determined that the president has to read the text of the oath, and then after that, the representative gets up and answers the word "I swear." So, I will now read the text of the oath: "I swear by my honor that I will exercise my duties as a representative in the Croatian Parliament knowingly and responsibly, that in my work I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia." Here's Mr. Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1679	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1680	Thank you very much. I congratulate my colleague Lalovac on his sworn oath and wish him success in carrying out this honorable and responsible parliamentary duty. . And now I think we're complete as a Parliament, so we can continue to work, that is, with the first point of today's agenda, which is... [[Applause.]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We would now move to, according to the agenda, the first point that is stated is: - The election of the vice-president of the Croatian Parliament; Proposers: SDP's Club and the Club of Representatives of the Croatian National Assembly; Honored colleagues of the MPs and MPs will have 5 vice-presidents in accordance with inter-party agreements in the 8th session of the Croatian Parliament. On the basis of Article 32, if 5 vice-presidents are elected, 3 vice-presidents shall be elected on a parliamentary majority proposal and 2 on a parliamentary minority proposal. In accordance with the above-mentioned article of the Rules of Procedure for the Vice-Presidents of the Assembly of Parliament held at the session on 22 January this year, the vice-presidents of the Croatian Parliament were elected to the parliamentary majority proposal. Based on an inter-party agreement between the SDP Club of Representatives and the HNS Club of Representatives, Croatian Parliament vice-presidents from the ranks of the parliamentary minority Ms Milanka Opačić and Ms. Vesna Pusic were proposed. Would the proposing representatives like to explain the proposal? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Any word from anyone for the hearing? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Before we make a statement on the proposals, I remind you that the election of Vice-President of the Parliament requires most of the votes of the present representatives. I'd like to ask you to establish the quorum first. Please press any button. Is that it? Can we see the situation? 96, good. Thank you very much. So the quorum is 96. First of all, I would like to vote on the proposal to elect a representative of Milanka Opačić as vice-president of the Croatian Parliament. Who's in? The vote is over. Please score. Out of 94, now we're slightly less, 76 for, 3 abstentions and 15 against. I therefore find that most of the votes of MP Milanka Opačić has been elected vice president of the Croatian Parliament. Congratulations! ... I am now voting on the proposal to elect Ms Vesna Pusic as vice president of the Croatian Parliament. [[Applause.]] Who's in? The vote is over. Out of 94 total votes, 56 are for, 5 abstentions and 33 against. Therefore, I find that most of the votes were elected by representative Mrs Vesna Pusic as vice president of the Croatian Parliament. Congratulations! ... We're going to the next item on the agenda. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1683	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Allow me to brief you in front of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development on the results of the 2014 business. Annual financial reports submitted to the Croatian Parliament for confirmation were audited by the independent auditor company Deloitte. In its report, the auditor gave a positive opinion on the consistency of the financial reports for 2014 with the relevant financial and accounting legislative framework adopted and in force in the European Union. From 31.12.2014, the total cumulative, credit-guarantee and mandated activities of HBOR from the draft bank to 2014 amounted to 132 billion kuna of waiting 87 billion kuna credit activity, 27 billion kuna guarantee activity and 24 billion kuna mandated activity. The business activity of HBOR is significantly conditioned by economic factors as well as the situation in the banking sector. The trend in the reduction of the credit activity of commercial banks according to the company sector and the growth of liquidity in the banking system also resulted in a reduction in HBOR's credit activity in 2014. By reducing the gross loans at the level of the banking sector in 2014 by 6.9 billion kuna, all domestic sectors and especially the commercial companies sector by 3.2 billion kuna were decommissioned. At the same time in stricter credit standards, credit standards reflect the bank's indemnity to take additional risks. In this respect, gross loans were granted to companies between 2011 and 2014 decreased by 14% and 16.9 billion kuna, respectively. Banks were not used for private sector placements to grow domestic resources and benefit from a reduction in liabilities. HBOR's credit activity in 2014 recorded a decline compared to 2013 by 34%. Of the total credits granted in the amount of 4.6 billion kuna, 797 million kuna or 17.6% of the expenditure on small and medium-sized enterprises. 807 million kuna or 17.8% approved for infrastructure, environmental protection and renewable energy projects. 1.1 billion kuna or 24% for tourism, 1 billion for exports and 843 million kuna or 18.6% for larger economic operators. In particular, I would like to point out that a positive shift has been made in 2014 in terms of crediting projects aimed at using EU funds. Crediting units of local self-government and regional self-government to realise EU projects has increased by 100 million kuna. The increase was also recorded in private entities, agricultural and small and medium-sized enterprises for the 90 million kuna circus. By way of business banks, 690 loans amounting to 2 billion and 847 million kuna were granted while 886 loans amounting to 4 billion and 330 million kuna were granted in 2013. The negative trend was halted in 2015, in which 1093 loans or 3 billion kuna were granted. It is also noteworthy that the implementation of the Government Programme of the Republic of Croatia, so-called ‘RH’, was completed in early 2014. The economic development programme as before, the continuation of previously known models A and A plus. According to the programme in question, 194 loans amounting to 717 million kuna were granted in 2013, while 22 loans amounting to HRK 50 million were granted in 2014. In 2014, a higher ratio of loans granted for financing was maintained and 59%, and 41% for trade funds. According to the size of the entities, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs were granted 82% of the total number of loans and 46% of the total amount of loans granted or total of 2 billion and 100 million kuna. In 2014, the total lending activity of the Assembly towards the entities that made the amount amount amounted to 3 billion kuna. The HBOR, along with its daughter company, supported Croatian credit insurance companies with export business insurance and bank guarantees. Thus, in 2014 it was secured and guaranteed 4.2 billion kuna of export turnover. If we look at HBOR's activity in terms of investment regions, then we see that 60% of these investments were in the so-called investment. continental Croatia and 40% in Adriatic Croatia. As far as the figure is concerned, 55% refers to continental and 45 to Adriatic Croatia. The strongest activity was achieved in the Istrian County and that of 636 million kuna. The rest of our counties have achieved between 150 and 250 million kuna activities. According to the data we collect from the credit user based on HBOR's credit activity is in 2o14. The year allowed more than 2,000 new employees to be employed. In 2014, there was continued application of an interest rate reduction measure by one percentage point for investments in agriculture, tourism, industry and energy efficiency. We have been implementing this measure since 2012. As a result of this measure, the largest number of credit users has the possibility of being in charge of HBOR at an interest rate of up to 3%. In 2014, 209 loans of a billion and 300 million kuna were granted on the basis of that measure. With this measure, we extended the payment deadline by the investment lending programmes. The maximum repayment deadline is 17 years and the shortest 12 years. The longest starting period during which users pay only interest is 4 years. Last year, we continued to implement the risk-sharing model with business banks. Over three years, including in 2014 we credited 24 projects amounting to 1 billion kuna in 2014. Nine projects. In order to secure the funds for the implementation of the activities in 2014 we have agreed 425m euros from the European Investment Bank which are intended to finance projects of small and medium-sized enterprises, public enterprises, and medium-capital and large enterprises. These funds are agreed on deadlines of 12 and 15 years and interest rates below 2%. The HBOR for funding from this source until the end of 2015 total approved 97m euros in loans for projects of small and medium-sized enterprises and 125m euros in loans and projects of large entrepreneurs and investment in infrastructure. The European Investment Bank has become an important source of funds with its favourable resources over the past few years, and has contracted 1.8 billion euros in dedicated credit lines with the EIB by the end of 2014. As regards financial operations and results in 2014 HBOR achieved a financial result of EUR 168 million. The results achieved are lower by 11% compared to 2013. Interest income generated 98% of HBOR's total income and in 2014 decreased compared to the previous year by 5%. This trend is primarily the result of the implementation of the lower interest rates measures implemented by HBOR since 2012. In addition to this, the movement of interest income was affected by interest rates on financial markets, as well as the effects of the implementation of pre-fashion agreements and the restructuring of plasma. The interest expenditure accounts for 2/3 of total expenditure and in 2014 is down by 6% compared to 2013. As a result of the reduction of HBOR's various responsibilities, the level of HBOR's debt as well as both in 2014 and 13th but also in the use of credit lines of specific financial institutions. Otherwise, in those two years, HBOR regularly and prematurely paid 7 billion kuna. The total financial result shall be allocated to the statute reserves and thus the HBOR capital base shall be strengthened and allow for a higher level of risk to be taken over. Otherwise, it was at the end of fourteen billion and 430 million kuna. The balance sheet is recording and... A reduction from the end of 2013 due to temporary repayments of debt totalling 2 billion and 700 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These returns were made due to an unfavourable relationship of active and passive interest rates, and return effects are seen in the reduction of interest costs. It is certainly necessary to point out that in 2014, HBOR maintained the quality of portfolios at 2013 level, with 80% of portfolios fully charged and 15% non-income payments. The non-income payments shall be paid to the debtors over whom the bankruptcy proceedings have been opened, the debtors who have requested the opening or are in the process of resolving the pre-demand settlement, the debtors on whom the restructuring negotiations are being conducted, and the debtors who have been sued. In 2014, the Republic of Croatia paid out 350 million kuna in founding capital and this is the HBOR Law of the prescribed amount of founding capital of 7 billion kuna remaining 533 million kuna. After reviewing Rules of Procedure 2014 here is a little view of 2015. Respecting the reduction... We carried out certain preparations in 2014 so we also got a new channel of leased loans through Leasing companies, in 2015 there were 990 or 300 million kuna. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the existing models and conditions of cooperation with business banks, the introduction of new lending programmes designed to facilitate and encourage the absorption of EU funds, the introduction of a new programme for crediting and developing projects and other investment documentation, the adaptation of the conditions of existing lending programmes to extend the circle of potential credit users. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In 2015 HBOR for the first time in its business exceeded the number of 2000 credits granted, in particular 2985 approved loans or 40% higher compared to the best result achieved so far. And the credit activity achieved is the second in the size of the draft bank, at the most 10.2 billion in 2012. In 2015, HBOR supported the Croatian economy with 12.2 billion kuna plus plasma lending, with credit payments of 7.8 billion kuna, guaranteed 2.9 billion kuna and secured export transactions of 1 million and 500 billion kuna, 1.5 billion kuna. The increase in credit activity was recorded in all segments and the most active users of these loans were small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who were granted nearly 2,000 loans in specialised programmes, which is twice as much as in the same period last year. Export and tourism credit also records an increase of 14%. Export business insurance accounts for 45% growth compared to 2014. HBOR supported Croatian exporters with 6.8 billion kuna in 2015. With an increase in credit activity, a very significant indicator is the increase in the share of investment loans to 82%, if you remember 2014 was 59%. By observing credit activity in 2015 according to activities supported by the most represented products and activities were food industry, metal-processing, electricity industry, chemical and chemical production, wood industry, agriculture and fisheries. And in services, of course, tourist activity. In a few months I will present to you the detailed results of the 2015 business. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1684	Thank you very much. I am opening the debate and will be the first one on behalf of the SDP club, the distinguished representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1685	Thank you, Mr. President. The president of HBOR administration, colleagues and colleagues of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development has played a major role in the development and potentials of Croatia, especially at the time of the crisis when the business banks met the conditions for lending and almost did not follow any more risky investment programme, especially the lending of crafts, and at the time Croatia's Bank for Reconstruction and Development significantly participated in crediting business entities through crediting crafts. The models AA, A+, B, C, etc. were then known. We in the SDP have always advocated the pro-active policy of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, although she is aware of the risks. For a long time, HBOR operated, i.e. only by means of business banks. Lately, we have more and more direct placements, which, of course, increases the risk of such loans. We also advocated the rapid payment of funds to the bank's core capital as soon as possible, namely when the bank was founded on the underlying capital that was to be paid out of the budget amounted to 7 billion kuna and almost 20 years later we managed to pay a little more than 5 billion and just these last 3 years we see that almost by the end of 2014. And we also hope that the policy led by HBOR for the past 5.6 years will not change significantly, i.e. the majority lending of small and medium-sized enterprises will continue, especially with regard to beginners, innovators, women entrepreneurs, or the largest part of exporters. Then, that investment projects will be monitored, which will be more favourable to business banks on interest and hand-to-hand loans, in these recent years, we have increased the loan return by 15 and 17 years, respectively, with favourable interest rates moving around 3 or 4%, and that any project that uses European funds will be monitored financially, which so far seems to have occurred whenever a new measure is launched or opened, and the HBOR has automatically monitored such projects. This Decision shall The HBOR approved 886 loans worth 5.1 billion kuna. By way of banks 2 billion and 900 million kunas or 56% and directly 2 billion kunas and 200 million kunas or 44%, and that is what I was saying that direct placements increase the risk, but they also have a larger range of investors. 59% of the funds were used for investment, a significant share there had a tourism sector, and 41% were still placed in crafts. This in the coming years is already a more favourable relationship in 2015, and I think that in the end it should only be extremely credited, credited for crafts. The measures carried out were aimed at increasing the placements because we had a decline compared to 2013, so it continued with reduced interest rates, continued to share risk with banks, increased in this regard, and the margins to banks to increase co-operation with business banks, i.e. the increased margin was not passed on to loan users, but was on the burden of the Bank itself to rebuild and develop. The loan has also been increased, the interest on beginner exporters has been reduced, insurance policies for small entrepreneurs and exporting beginners have been increased, framework loans have been given to banks and have started to deal with Leasing companies. Of course, this concerned only the manufacturing sectors, i.e. those leasing companies that followed the industry. Three new loan-refunding programmes have been introduced, i.e. the grants from European funds, which should have been bridged. Microcredit was introduced with the CIP guarantee, then crediting companies that successfully completed pre-banking agreements. Therefore, all of this was directed to increase placements through both business banks, direct payments, i.e. risk sharing with business banks. The most numerous users were also small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in 2014, who received 728 loans of 2 billion and 100 million kuna, which is important because they have a difficult access to credit, especially if they are beginners, if they are young entrepreneurs and if women are entrepreneurs. The number of projects financed from European funds increased significantly in 2014, with 163 of which amounted to 610 million kuna. Such projects are also happy to finance business banks because they are safe but also here HBOR participated with direct funding amounting to 280 million kuna, so just over one third. As far as export transactions are concerned, there are only lending and significant export risk insurance operations, 307 such loans of 2 billion and 400 million kuna, are planned in 2014. Furthermore, a billion kuna insurance policy and 155 million censures were placed. The HBOR has favourable sources of funding, with 7.8 years of successful co-operation with public banks and European and global. In particular, it is important to cooperate with the European Investment Bank, which has signed an 800m-euro contract that will be used in both part and 2015 and has already been said to be still in 2001 and that this cooperation has been placed in Croatia from that bank a billion and 780m euros. Since the HBOR places more directly credits, to increase the risks we consider to be good risk management, the Supervisory Board also regularly reports on risk-based placements and framework loans to business banks. As regards the results of the business, it should be said that profit is not the primary objective of the HBOR, that its basic task under more favourable conditions is to monitor investment projects that are important for the development of the Croatian economy. In 2014, around 170 million kuna profits were achieved. It's slightly smaller, but I'm saying it's not the primary goal of making a profit. It is important to increase the underlying capital, i.e. total capital, it reached 9.4 billion kuna in 2014. This is important because it actually gets a new potential for greater placement opportunities but also for getting more favourable funds from public financial institutions. Of which, in 2014, the underlying capital to be paid under the law is 6.9 billion, so only 100 million less than the law found. We estimate that the future HBOR will also be a significant factor in increasing the number of investments, monitoring investors, more favourable funds than business banks. In particular, the projects financed by the European Union funds and the SDP club will accept this report for 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1686	Thank you very much. I haven't seen any replicas, so we move on. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the next word will be taken by the honourable representative, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1687	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. By listening to the opening statement of President Zgrebec and President Zgrebec with one large part, we can agree on behalf of the club. However, I would like here some things that happened in 2014 to try to transfer to today. Today, it is very up-to-date on how public business leaders will be elected. In 2014, the government's decision removed the HBOR administration. Not just management, four more levels have been removed below. They've been brought to positions, and they know exactly whose spouses, whose employees are in whose office and placed. So that's what happened in 2014. So much for this today's politicized story. So first everything changed alive, and then the European Commission's decision to appoint a public company must be done through a public tender that has been in the law since 2010, and this government has denied only so much that we can clear up some of the articles and quotes that appear in Croatian media these days. What I also want to say you know that in our debate, we did not support the budget, although in the segment relating to HBOR the increase in core capital and the increase of those investment insurance funds we all supported in our debate. I even know that I've debated here on behalf of the club about the government's amendment to increasing these export insurance funds. However, when you look at the implementation of the budget, then you will see that in 2004, the management did not spend, in 2014, the money the government provided at the export insurance position, etc. The second thing, it was not indicated here that the plasma dropped, HBOR activity was down 34% in 2014. So that's a fact. And why it happened, to those facts there are several reasons. First, this report, whatever you want from Brussels, which says that the professional prepares, experience and knowledge of the leaders in HBOR is not adequate to what a financial institution should have. So when you look at the appointed members of the administration that were changed, only one man the president of the administration had experience in the banking sector, but he was removed after nine months because he didn't want to implement certain things that were a political directive. And to you for information "incompetent" under quotes the former management president is today a representative of the European Investment Bank for this part of Europe. So, SDP and others from the Kukuriku coalition, Mr. President of the Administration was not capable enough to run the HBOR even though he had great results by then, but is therefore capable of the European Investment Bank to be their representative and for the first time the Croatian has received that position. But it's like that. It's another thing. The amendment of the Supervisory Board's Statute where the decision was taken to borrow more than 37 million, up to 37 million above the administration without approval, also led without the consent of the Supervisory Board to the fact that people simply refused to take risks and therefore to reduce investment, so loans, even though the demand for loans was quite large. So when we talk about 2004, there was a 5% reduction in revenue, but therefore operational costs increased by 24%. In part, these operating costs increased due to the severance of former HBOR leaders, but the other part of the operating costs increased among other things and the employment of 15 new people that took place in 2014. So you have the employment of 15 new people, but you have a 34% downturn in activity. The question is what have these 15 people been doing, and the more you will see when we discuss the 2015 report, unfortunately the trends continue and that in 2015 there was no lending, the big loan to the Croatian Telecom for the purchase of the vehicle, I do not see at all what the meaning of having HBOR involved in this story, that there was no lending of HZ and shipbuilding, and there would be a question of illegal state support, etc. Then the result in 2015 would be catastrophic. So these are all the facts that are the way they are, because if you have 15 people more employees, if you receive 60 party listeners in 4 years of office and so much increase the number of HBOR employees, the activity and credit allocation in HBOR has fallen and there has been no credit to large state-owned companies when you move out then you would see, then you will see that HBOR's credit activity unfortunately in 2014, 2015 is not even the approximate team anymore that some things are connected. When we're discussing it, I'm going to go a little out of context, but anyway, about the HAMAG annual report then the HAMAG leader said that among other things their reduced activity was because the HABOR activity was reduced. So that's said on the board, that's not what I made up, you can see in the record of the Committee on Economy that it's said. So what is crucial is, so the Development Bank is a partner to business banks and in recent years the HBOR has basically granted loans, very little credit directly. Most of the credits were through business banks. However, there is only one question here why the interest rate actually rose linearly from one to two percent and thus practically made it possible to make another extra profit to the business banks. Because if the HBOR was awarded to the HBOR because of the state's funds, because of the position that the HBOR gained in previous years for certain activities and programmes that were activities and programmes of the Government, and on the basis of that, the EU's institutional banks received cheap funds, and then the logical thing is if what counterpart Zgrebec said was HBOR decided to invest more funds directly, that it does not go through business banks why we are business banks, why is it actually allowed, why it is agreed to increase linearly, so their margin from one to two percent. Because the business banks in that whole story had nothing but to come up with the cheap capital that HBOR got from institutional banks and thus satisfied their clients. At the same time, the government has its own programmes, and there are fellow former ministers each in their ministry who have certain programmes, and that was the previous years, and therefore they received loans from EU institutional banks. In particular, the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. So I'm going to conclude with that, unfortunately, HBOR's credit activities have dropped. What the HBOR should be, because if we gave the money from the budget, we increased the underlying capital, if we gave the funds for export insurance then it is logical that these funds are directed towards small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, so those most needed. Because when you look at the structure of the Croatian economy, unfortunately, most small and medium-sized entrepreneurs have very little credit capacity and if they are not helped by HAMAG, then in principle, it is very difficult to obtain credit, but therefore to lend loans to some state-owned companies I say very questionable or unauthorized support. And in this way, when you add it all together, then you get billions of dollars, but when you move it all out of the balance, then you'll come to think that what was going on in HBOR was contrary to what the government suggested when the budget was proposed. And what he says is we all supported here, so we didn't support the budget, but we all said more or less in the debate that we agree with this government's activity to increase HBOR funds. So that's something that wasn't controversial. So we can even say that there was a political consensus in the Croatian Parliament about it. However, operationally this was not implemented in the HBOR at the level at which both ministers and the government planned. We can fight here as politically as we please, but we're discussing something that happened. So we have the adopted budget, we have the budget, so the acts adopted by this high house. And so, we now have the HBOR report, and when we put it like it's paste, copy or on... Put those three documents under each other and then you'll see this all together, and the main reason is and I'll go back to what I started out with today, and that's what political appointments were then made. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because even when you look at the people who appointed the HBOR administration, there was only one man who had experience in banking that was the previous president of the administration who after nine months gave the wind five because he simply couldn't carry out certain things. Today's administration, with a lot of respect for their colleagues, has no banking experience. And secondly, HBOR by all means if we don't decide otherwise is not a classical banking institution and it is the Croatian National Bank's check or treats it as a bank. What is the intensity and goal and we all agree politically on is that HBOR becomes a credit investment export bank, so a bank that will support it. Because I repeat, there is an analysis of the creditworthiness of Croatian entrepreneurs, so you will see that they are over 90 unfortunately currently unable to meet the minimum criteria for obtaining credit. This is why HAMAG was founded, and therefore there are other state support to enable those who have projects, who have a future to come to credit by favourable means that the HBOR has received on behalf of long-term cooperation and trust from the European institutional banks and that such funds therefore cost-effective, cheap capital places their production and thus work. But I say, unfortunately, that didn't happen, it didn't happen because we're a pioneer move from 2010, which is that we appoint administrations and supervisory committees through a public tender, because then they were said politics brought them in, politics will take them away. I have not seen any of those who have come with politics resign, nor have I seen any member of the supervisory board appointed by the policy that has resigned and given this government the opportunity to call a practically public tender and appoint new leaders of public companies as HBOR and so on. Therefore, these are comments to the factual state. We'll support the report as a club because it's a set of data, a set of numbers that happened. So we can be satisfied, dissatisfied with this, but we simply cannot deny those figures that are there, but we simply want to warn about some of the things that have happened and no matter how much political bickering is likely to take place today over this debate these are facts, facts, facts, facts. See budget 2014, see budget implementation 2014. All this stuff I've been telling you is in there. Look at the ministers who've been sitting your ministries, the programs in your ministries that you've planned to implement through HBOR, how many of them have been realized? We're going to hear a report today or tomorrow from the head of Hamag who clearly said on the board that the reduction in the scope of guarantees, the guarantees given by HAMAG to entrepreneurs who had good programs and couldn't get credits was reduced because HBOR reduced credit activity. And I'll end up with something else. So in order to pump up the balance sheet of success a lot of credit has been given conditionality to so I say the passage of the Supervisory Board to the proposal of the administration and you will see God in a year how much of these conditional loans are going to get the green light? Probably 30, 40% of them, and when it is pumped out of this balance that is like this, and especially from 2015, the results will be far worse and also certain placements that are shown here are free of guarantees, and many do not have guarantees from the state budget are very risky and the question is who will fall to the burden. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1688	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused several replicas. The first is that distinguished representative, Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1689	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Shuker, you and I have a long experience of monitoring the HBOR not only as representatives but also as members of the Supervisory Board, and then it is not correct to say that in 2014 the administration was removed but had expired in May. A colleague of Kovac's, who always had our support, the support of the SDP club. We highly appreciated his work and his presentation of HBOR in the world. Let's remember he was also president of the Council of Institutional Banks of Europe, he was also on the Executive Board and we appreciated it and always valued it highly. After 20 years, the man said he no longer wanted to run. Then, as the new administration was called, we can discuss it but it is not correct to say that the administration has been removed. As for HBOR’s own placements, when taking their basic activity and that’s investment activity, so let’s cancel at the years when the high rankings were, if we cancel the credits for 10-ac billion kuna in one year more than 50% were actually assets for crafts, then we can say HBOR can place as much investment funds as there are good projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1690	The esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1691	Comrade Zgrebec, we have been really long and very long, in fact in all the discussions over these years we have had a very high degree of consent, for the simple reason that we respected each other and based on what was the debate in HBOR's space and we have never gone beyond that context, and even though many debates have never gone beyond that. But you know very well why Mr. Kovac has left. Mr. Kovacev left after Mr. Linic left. Then a big HBOR hack was made, a huge damage was done to HBOR. Mr. Kovace had to leave. It's been two years since, has any of Mr. Kovac's burden of certain government people been proven? Nothing, but the man's gone. It didn't work for us. Also in all possible and impossible ways, it tried to prevent Mr. Kovacev from being appointed for this function. And even a memo from the government said that they thought a man would come to represent the European Investment Bank and he left because he disagreed with the members of the government. How he will cooperate with them. After all, they took practical responsibility and appointed Mr. Kovacev where he is. And as for the placements, colleague Zgrebec, you know very well, and so I said that with much of your debate, I agree, but that there are no large placements in large state-owned companies and this fall that was in 2014 of 34% would be far higher. And yet, 15 new people have been employed. So these are facts. And it is indisputable, what you know, what I know and what all the colleagues who sat on the board of directors know, both this and before, I think of ministers, that the biggest problem of Croatian entrepreneurs is craftsmanship. That one big problem for big state corporations is that practically under market conditions they can't get a loan. And those are the facts. And we, when we all agree here on these facts, as we have often agreed on these facts on the Supervisory Board, will not politicize and will not throw HBOR into the mud as some have tried to throw it away.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1692	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1693	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First, that our citizens who listen know that this is a 2014 report because Mr Shucker is talking about the report as if it's happening now in HBOR and as if there's not enough activity. When you look at 2015, Mr. Schucker, 2285 of the approved applications, 85% of them are small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. So the activity is more than 12 billion kunas per year, which means that in 2015, the year in which much has been done. And this year, which you're talking about in 2014, is exactly the year where there's been a change in the head of HBOR, and that's why there's been a little less activity. The administration that left in the middle of the year had less activity in the first term. So don't talk about the institution in a way that doesn't work well when all the positive trends and when the number of loans is positive and when the amount allocated to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs is also positive. And as for, you said, political appointments, so you probably know something about it since HBOR's director came in the '90s as a 30-year-old without any kind of, not just banking experience, but any management experience in HBOR, and there HDZ held him for many, many years. So on this side, don't talk about political appointments and don't talk about benefits and operating costs because I tell you and you know because you signed a contract of work that was easier and better to be director of HBOR not to say how much pay, so I don't go out with it publicly, two and a half times as much as it is, say, a representative's salary than being a representative or minister in the Croatian Government. That's what you made possible, you said yourself that it wasn't a financial institution not to conflict on the market, that you made it possible as chairman of the Supervisory Board of the former administration. And not to say all the benefits that the citizens could read in the paper. So don't. talk about high costs [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Because you've been working your expenses and don't talk about political shifts because you've brought [[Intruder: Time's up.]] practically a man with no experience at the head of an institution. [[/Intruder: Time's up. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1694	Please, I have warned you three times that the time is up. Respect it. [[/Intruder: O.K. I'm sorry.]] Yes, we appreciate your youth and your newness in parliament. [[I just got here, I'm new, so I don't know.]] Mr. Shuker... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1695	I'm glad Mr. Maras said what he said because he knows who put the story in the paper. But I'm also glad that there are records, that there are records around some of the crown points where the responsible people in the government didn't want to raise their hands for some things, but also some who are drilling with certain things have been silent, I won't say how our people say it. However, the fact is that the man you claim to be incapacitated has gone as a representative of the President of the European Investment Bank, I did not say SDP, but rather a certain gentleman. So it's worth it to them, and it's not worth it to us. That's the fact you're talking about. The second thing, the man who had the only banking experience couldn't stand the political pressure to grant loans according to political criteria, and he left. The third thing, the fact is, and I don't want what you've been doing here, dealing with names in the papers, calling people out, respecting everyone's privacy, respecting everyone's privacy. So I don't want to name people by name who are employed by pure political criteria. The second thing, in four years of HBOR, 60 people are more employed. Third thing, when we look at who we gave the loans to in 2015 if HT and the purchase of imported cars is the interest of the Croatian economy to be financed, we co-finance with taxpayers' money, then it's a great honor. If HH and shipbuilding are not entitled to something according to the criteria and directives because it is considered illegal support, then you give it these loans. If several hundred million loans you give to Croatian highways and then when you pump it all up, then it looks like a nice balance, then it's another pair of shoes. I'm just saying, facts are facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1696	Thank you very much. I think I saw a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1697	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for letting me react. Since I'm new, consider that. 238 Rules of Procedure of 236. So Mr. Shuker insulted me here by saying that I was dealing, dealing information. I will, Mr. Shuker, have not been dealing with information but in my debate today, I will say some things, which you will then explain to the Croatian public about how HBOR failed to charge 60 million kuna from one of the entrepreneurs associated with HDZ, and then you say whether it is dealing or not. clear and public... [[Intruder president: This is how a colleague.]] But I wasn't dealing anything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder President: Comrade Maras...]] I wasn't dealing anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1698	A colleague of Maras, as first as me. Please don't throw it out of the bench. Comrade Maras, so as far as I've heard, it wasn't mentioned your name here. That's one thing. Secondly, I ask you all to refrain from personal qualifications. We can, of course, discuss everything, but let's do it with the dignity that I'm always standing for here. Therefore, without exceeding time, and without any significant, and without any personal qualifications. Please be nice to everyone. And now we've got Mr. Bulli, he's also raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1699	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would ask you to stick to Article 232 because we in this Assembly must discuss as Article 332 states on the subject under discussion, not on the personal problems of certain parliamentary representatives. So I'd like to ask you to stop it in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1700	I completely agree with you. If only I had strictly done so, probably then 90% of the members of the Parliament would have to interrupt and I shouldn't have given them my word. So I'm quite broad and democratically interpreting it, but I'll always stop when I cross a certain line. But of course this is Parliament and there must be a certain freedom of expression, so that often people go astray on other topics that are not the most discussed. But the next replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1701	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Just so we don't repeat ourselves. I will say that, here on the Supervisory Board, we have had good cooperation and with the opposition members – Mr Shuker in particular and that we have done this job in a very transparent way. Everything else is a matter of certain impressions of that, of the individual things that have been brought out here today. However, I would like not to repeat myself just one more thing to apostrophe to be quite clear and transparent. The change in the Statute that took place in the HBOR was in fact to reduce the impact of the Supervisory Board and the policy on Parliament's decisions. Let me explain that to you. Therefore, before the change of the Statute for all loans above HRK 37 million was decided by the Supervisory Board. After the amendments to the Statute, the Supervisory Board only agreed and gave it today, too, is tomorrow. I hope you don't change that. So he agreed to the administration's decision. Therefore, the management has received much more jurisdiction in this regard, and the Supervisory Board only agrees with the decision of the administration, which is perfectly normal because it is expected from the administration to base very clear and professional criteria on the management of a credit institution, even if it was not classically left to the Supervisory Board only if ad agrees with it or not. Here, that's a very important thing that I think should have been fixed here. Maybe I shouldn't have replicated it. I should have been correcting an incorrect quote, but I don't know. I'm stalking myself now, so that's what I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1702	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1703	We agree on important things to preserve HBOR's reputation and keep the letter of the law... That's a fact and that's good, but I just said, so when I talked about the experience of the board members and when I said that the Supervisory Board had decided that I could make a decision on loans over 37 million in them, that given the inexperience in that banking section caused some fear and there was a reduction in the plasma, which is understandable because these are facts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And neither can you, nor I, but we can say it like this that certain placements went to state-owned companies that no one in this world wanted to lend credit to. So they tried two, three times, failed to get it. I'm saying if someone's pulling a tongue here today, I've never said it in public, so I'm going to say some things publicly, and I'm also saying the fact is what they are. And I'm once on the board of directors, and today I've tried to keep HBOR's dignity here. Because HBOR's dignity is the task of all of us, why? If we take down, which unfortunately almost happened in 2014 those who give us loans to finance certain projects will raise us interest. And our political bickering and irresponsibility will be paid by all Croatian entrepreneurs and that is a fact. We can agree that HBOR should be like this or something, but we need to discuss it and we need to propose a law. In fact, there are people with a lot of experience who can suggest other things, but I repeat, we can't put ourselves in a position to tell HBOR because it's written and that, you're going to get the funding instead of 1.5%, you're going to get 2.5%. Although HBOR basically had a very small margin, so whoever gets that loan will pay it more. And that's what we can't afford, and that's what we've done together in a bunch of cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1704	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Willibor Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1705	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Here I just wanted to respond to Mr Shuker's statement that 15 new people were employed, according to my report reading, so from 295 to 317, and 22 new people, so I ask Mr Dusan Tomašević to explain in his final presentation how many new people were employed and to which places as regards 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1706	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1707	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Comrade Shuker, in your debate, you mentioned political staffing, i.e. The arrival of a new number of people in that bank was something that marked the last term of this Kukuriku government that had left. Unfortunately, they also saw this institution as a space within which they could staff and, according to them, it brought some better results. However, when you have on one side the fact that the institution has continued to build, it has received references 24 years under the direction of one man, and then they make these huge changes in 2 years, i.e. in 1.5 days of changing two leaders, you quickly realize what kind of politics they've been leading. We are talking about 2014 and this is the year perhaps the biggest problems of the bank itself when they first appear as a reason within the party conflicts, within the government and within their ministers, especially two ministers, one of whom is a representative and one of them has gone to start to come out unfortunately and bad things out of that bank. Let's just remember the affair about privileged housing loans of employees, and then perhaps the biggest affair of the last government when one ministerial assistant is credited with 31 million kunas for which he has to go, and then the conflict of interest is determined, and then two of the strongest perhaps within himself of HBOR ministers who accuse each other of who is what and who they furniture, and then there's this little affair where they're asked to approve a loan to a company that has a share capital of 20,000, and it's looking for 20 million, so there's some kind of car wash as an affair and it's starting to come out. 2014 is a very important year because it is the first year in which the HBOR has entered and the criminal police. And that's all because the gentlemen who got their roles inside that bank began to calculate among themselves. And it would be very good if the gentleman who is here today looked back a little on that segment because he is not irrelevant to the 2014 report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1708	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1709	Look, fellow Boric, it is clear that some have asked for certain documents, although according to the HBOR Business Act, you know exactly who and how you can get the documents because it is in a certain way a business secret. Therefore, your position as minister or something does not give you the right to obtain a document, it is known how it can be done. However, I am repeating what my colleague Zgrebec said, and what he said as a responsible man, I have never been in a position to say to HBOR for perhaps a day or two of media fame. Why? If we all agreed that HBOR should be this strong support to Croatian entrepreneurs, then we must also safeguard the reputation of this HBOR. And that's a fact. And I think all the responsible people who have debated in HBOR all these years no matter what political option they belong to have discussed it that way. However, when you want to politicize, when you want to cover up some things all kinds of little biscuits and things like that and there's more and more ohh things then you're going to start looking for some documents and trying to make a scene out of something, so there are state institutions for that. No minister is an investigator or judge or anything. Therefore, I say HBOR and spit on HBOR and throw HBOR into the mud will ultimately pay Croatian entrepreneurs who are crying for cheap loans because the Croatian state has a credit rating like it has and at this point every Croatian entrepreneur pays capital by 2 percentage points more than his counterpart in Slovenia. And take that for a bunch of jobs is practically a few percent margin, then how can a Croatian entrepreneur compete in such conditions? And we instead of fighting to correct what is wrong and to bring in all those who give us credit ratings to raise that credit rating we will again with politics you will hear today in which direction the debate is going to go unfortunately do the opposite.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1710	Thank you very much. Before we proceed to the debate, I would just like to inform everyone who has not yet been photographed for a representative card that the photo of the representatives will take place today during the morning, so it began as early as 9.30 in the Chamber of Ivan Kukuljevic. So I'm asking you that whoever didn't take a photo to get there and is officially photographed to get a card. Now after this crucial announcement I would give the word on behalf of the CNS will speak the honourable representative Ivan Vrdoljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1711	I thank the president, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. So this debate goes in the direction in which it is expected in the Croatian Parliament about such an important institution as HBOR, which means that we talked more about content, about the problems that were and not about the numbering of individuals whether they were affairs or provocations, it will not show the institutions but that there was an atmosphere in the supervisory committee, that we should keep that institution, and so it should be in the Assembly including a fellow Boric who, when he comes out and talks about it, lists the quasi affair or anything. And there's a colleague Schuker right that if we disabling institutions in HBOR and questioning institutionality, then in the end, depolitisation so that there may be an increase in interest from both the EIB and from all the institutions that finance it and we must not allow ourselves and it is not polite to allow ourselves and we should think about it today at this debate and tomorrow at the Supervisory Board and the Administrations or anywhere. In 2013, it was a very difficult year, so I mean not only in HBOR, what happened then was the sub-capitalization of a number of Croatian entrepreneurs and the economy, the total suspension of the financing of commercial banks of the real sector, they were completely stopped. And then the HBOR Sea, that hole that appeared in the funding of the defacto fill, should have been flexible, should have been fast, should have introduced new programs quickly, it's always a problem, it's always hard. And then there was one idea to transfer part of responsibility to the administration, and I certainly wouldn't agree with my colleague Shuker, and that's the problem in Croatian society, people are afraid to make decisions, take responsibility. What's the problem if the Board of Supervisors said these are your programs, there's your money, make decisions, finance. I think that's a good thing, that we should take responsibility for those who are in the administrations that they don't have to for 5 million, 10 million, 12 million kunas to ask for some kind of confirmation to be in some kind of fear. From who, if he works fair? If everything is in accordance with the law's programs. In fear of whom people? Do the job properly, work for a long time, work for HBOR good work before, there were various times when a thousand or 2,000 credits are issued, and in 20 years, you have 50,000 credits issued, so of course you'll get two that don't work. It's a statistical error. Either 5 or I don't know, there were bad programs that we've all witnessed, you'll remember in agriculture, nothing is returned. And that was so we all grabbed our heads and said good, OK, that's some strategies that were once past in the beginning of 2000, in fact, half of 2000 didn't get the money back, and the news from HBOR went to the wind, but we're good to go to a new time, we're going to a new industry, into new strategies. And I think that the future of the HBOR is also a little bit of a debate today, it should be that people are willing to take responsibility, not to be afraid, that we should give them new programmes, that's in the end line and we're in the direction of the new credit programmes, etc., that there will be a new increase in core capital. We'll all agree that we need to help HBOR, now in the projections of the budget we're about to see. So you can run away from responsibility and be the president or member of the management of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development cannot, nor should you, otherwise do not be the president or member of the management of that bank. Thirty-seven million kunas, which was the intention back then. I asked for it first, please, don't wait for the board of directors, don't wait for five ministers or seven of us sitting there. Make decisions, give people money, let them work. If you're not stealing, if you're doing everything according to the law, then what are you afraid of? I was never afraid to make those decisions. And I think that's the way it's supposed to be, and tomorrow maybe you should pick up the thresholds, agree on some key ones. The other thing, which is the problem, if there's not enough placement and we've heard, so in the end, I've often talked to a colleague of Kovac's and when he was president of the administration and when he wasn't president of the administration. There was a huge decline in the requirements, in the '13s, '14s, because simply entrepreneurs knew that they could not meet these conditions and they were sub-capitalized, so they went first through HAMAG, so they waited, so the volume of requests should be provoked at all, not many of them fell, but there was also a decline of the requirements that came. And I don't see the problem that if there is not enough placement then HBOR, which has been recapitalised by the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the budget and money of Croatian citizens, is funded by Croatian railways, Croatian shipbuilding. So let me see which shipbuilding in the world is not financing or not being transported through guarantees by state institutions. I don't know any. I went to those shipyards, I talked, we looked for models, I don't know any. It was in Europe, in Europe I speak, of course that Korea and China, they have direct money. There is no shipyard in Europe that has not found a model that the state does not follow the industry through its guarantee or financial institutions. Well, we're obliged to follow. So what's the problem, if it wasn't for us to follow Croatian shipbuilding? And what was good in 2013, if we had succeeded, we were jumping all over our heads and you're right, we all advised how to make a model of financing Croatian shipbuilding that according to EU rules and state aid. And it was made, I got the paper that it was in line with state aid and EU rules. That model we formed. We've been struggling about it for half a year, everyone, because of Croatian shipbuilding. And on the board of directors, everyone talked constructively, there was no position or opposition there. There was only work there, and I have to admit, that was the debate. And let's not regret it and say it's not good for HBOR to have some part of his plasma that's smaller, which means we still have room for the placement whoever he's looking for. There was a problem that there was a lack of new credit lines, new programmes, and no, it was not a problem that we gave money in Croatian shipbuilding or in HZ Infrastructure or HZ Travel that we already gave. What's the problem? Cheaper capital, cheaper money. We've had it since... get cheaper? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We did. So what's the problem? I don't see the problem. The problem is that we should have reacted quickly enough. That is why it was later, when at the end of the fourteenth or early 15th re-change of administration, because people did not realize what their goals were. Get the loans out, introduce new programs, introduce new credit lines. That didn't happen. If what the Supervisory Board asked for and then the Government of the Republic of Croatia didn't happen, then after I don't know how many 6, 7, 8 months we were and that administration that didn't meet those goals, and we expected them to change them. The other thing is, when you say it, I don't want a lot of it. He said he didn't want to do it, so people were leaving because they didn't want to carry out any orders. How can someone give a warrant to the HBOR? There's a program, there's a law, there's management, there's risks, there's departments, there's all lines in HBOR. There's one man who doesn't decide. Well, we're not in the '90s that finger's up and finger down. It's 2015. It was such a time, a wartime, a state formed. It's 2015. There's no man who's going to put pressure on something that doesn't fit the law and the credit lines, because he's not going to get support from his risks, from his administration, from his legal department. No more of that. Forget it. And nobody left there because they didn't want to do anything, but they left in another tranche because they were bad, because they didn't have a placement, they didn't have new credit lines, and we gave them powers to decide, let us go, don't ask us anything. You have the money and you decide up to 37 million and you place the money we've secured them. Since that year, which I do not think is good not only in HBOR, but also beyond, it was then a preparation for, everything was changing, reconstructed and the real results of work in 2014 were coming in early 2015 including a shipbuilding programme, including loans for HZ. That's when we started funding. There is one more that we need guarantee programme in the Government of the Republic of Croatia to be adopted and the entire model of financing Croatian shipbuilding is then closed after successfully implemented privatisation and restructuring of privatised shipyards and tens of thousands of newly opened jobs. And you here in the debate are talking about 15 or 12 or 22 or 9 HBOR employees. Well, you have to have someone, I am, so you're gonna hire someone. And let's get you a job. What year? We want to do an analysis of whether 2007 is more employed or in 2006 and in parallel with that we lost in shipbuilding then a billion kunas to poor shipbuilding management. And did the HBOR work 212 or 199 so what do I care? That we've placed new 2 billion kunas, that they've opened up 3,000 new jobs in industry through an industrial strategy, so I don't care if they're 22 more or less. Give me the score. What happened in 2014 and that's fellow Shuker right, can't be a bigger number of employees and a worse result. The first half of the year of my colleague Kovacev, the second half of the year the administration has failed to meet our expectations. That wasn't good, that's why we changed them. She came 15th with a much higher placement, with much better results, that in Croatian shipbuilding that finances thousands of co-operatives in these Croatian shipbuildings that live exactly than the funding we defined in HBOR. And that's why I have to congratulate all my colleagues and HBOR employees on the fourteenth report. And it wasn't easy for them to bring it all, but don't be afraid of anything. You do, if you do it by the law, if you do it fair, if you do it right, so don't get people. Not just you, but all other Croatian institutions. Let's stop being afraid of quasi tracking. Why would I make a decision on a 25 million-dollar loan? So if it's under the law and it's by the book, then make a decision if you're the chairman of the board. So what do you have to ask for the blessing of 7 ministers? As a second thing, so he knows more about this loan than I do about his risks and his legal services. He can only tell me that's smart. So that's good. Raise those thresholds if necessary, give them authority and give them the money. I would suggest that. The fourteenth was bad, the fifteenth was much better by numbers regardless... I sincerely hope that every next and 16th and 17th will be more successful. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You and your new government programme have also stated that there will be new programmes and credit lines. Do it. HBOR is, it's never a finished story. It has to be a living body. We can't have the programs we adopted there in 2005. Well, half the world has changed. We have programmes that were adopted in 2005 and 2007, and they only function at 1% lower interest rates because we have reduced it because we have reduced before. So change them, bring in new ones. We introduced some for the EU, for shipbuilding, etc. Maybe it's not enough, maybe we should have some more. The sooner you introduce new ones, and you get support if you place, if you have an administration that takes responsibility and who does it fairly, and if you introduce, if you fill out new programs and credit lines. And of course it is expected that you and your support for our increase in core capital may not be within the range that was planned in the budget, but there has been an increase in the core capital that you do now. Put money in HBOR, find funds, save on other items in the Croatian budget. Find money to put in HBOR, which is a direct life for the Croatian economy. Depending on the loan, you today depend on the credit ratings of commercial banks. I came from the real sector, from a company that depended exclusively on commercial banks. I wouldn't like to do that today because their policy has changed, too. Let's make sure the best strategies we need to implement, the Industrial Strategy, the Smart Specialization Strategy that they have funding through the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development where there is a professional management, a smart Supervisory Board that fears nothing, but only realizes what they are given. And it would be good if that structure, in conclusion, that the structure that was maintained regardless of the bad year fourteenth but remained that more than 80% was placed on small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. It was also placed in shipbuilding, and in HZ, and in I don't know, I didn't even know about HT and those cars, however, but it was still over 80% small and medium enterprises, over 83 I think it was data. Then what's the problem with helping those 17 and some state-owned companies? Well, that's what we need, so we won't go any further, we don't have a problem at all. But it is good to be careful that the structure of the placement is not to go dominantly to large ones, but to stay on these over 80% of small and medium-sized enterprises, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and it was modus operans and those difficult 2014 years and it will be 2015 and I sincerely hope that it will be 2016 and 2017. We will as the Club of HNS Representatives of course because these are facts and facts to support this report and wish a lot of success in the work of all HBOR employees in the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1712	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. She's the right of a respected representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1713	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Vrdoljak, I think our discussions are quite compatible because we discussed the essence of the problem. However, what I have been warning about all along, and today it has already been heard in the assembly. Some, when someone said it was political pressure, like this, and a number of other things, and they even tried not as members of the Supervisory Board but as ministers asked for some data, so when they saw that there was nothing at least there while I was there, they stopped. So it's illogical that someone at the time, and that doesn't apply to you, but you were talking about that segment because I'm replicating, you gave me... it's unusual for someone to say that we've given authority, the supervisory board doesn't want to interfere. So if, in some other times, the management and the credit risk department made a decision on some loans, then what are the politicians who were to blame all of a sudden? So these are very strange things. But what's true about HBOR is we here finally have to decide to take down that political umbrella over that institution. Because if we keep saying that we want HBOR to be some kind of copy of something German... or something like that then we just have to confirm it here with our discussions, and we don't do politics and calling. Because I'm saying if the call goes off and I'm gonna go with some things I've never said in public because of HBOR's interest. You know both the debates and some loans, etc. Some of them could have said it at the time, but they didn't object. But I repeat, you don't know about your four-year term of office that you've given them because of any changes in the market or you don't know what happens that some loan that was first-class in three years won't become very risky or not chargeable. Is that so or isn't it?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1714	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Domagoj Milosevic. Excuse me. ... Go ahead. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] This time, since you're all new, then we'll be a little bit more casual in the rules.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1715	Thank you very much. Thank you for understanding. Not all of them, I am one of the newer ones, but we're not all. So, I agree with my colleague Shuker that we should keep an institution safe, but let's all look after it. Is there some in your ranks that we would love, what do we get from now on listing who once supported a loan, and who once read some newspaper in some day that showed that they were semi-information or misinformation or nothing? So let's all do it, wasn't that an example of some colleagues who are now starting to throw out names or anything? And the other thing, because then we can agree on this debate how do we depolitize? Give more authority to the next administration or to some administration that you will appoint so that ministers who should be members of the Supervisory Board, because it is necessary to watch and implement the Croatian strategy are only the Supervisory Board, not with great powers, give even greater authority to the administration that is professional and which will satisfy the conditions and which... or any of the international institutions will say if this is the right management I work with them. So do it and then you're on the trail and our deeds we've been doing. We took the first big step so you're doing the second big step. And that's how we depolitize.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1716	Thank you. Here is now the word of the honourable representative of Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1717	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, respected former ministers and distinguished colleague new here, I completely agree with everything you've said. Next, however, you've been sitting in the government for four years doing everything the opposite of what you're saying now unfortunately. So she didn't make any decisions. If the Croatian government was unable to stand behind a company like Gredelj, which is actually an indirect state firm, how could Croatian entrepreneurs expect to do anything for them through HBOR and without HBOR? The result of 80,000 lost jobs. Gredelj, on this day of the collapse of Telem, Gredel is already in bankruptcy longer, has done nothing. You solved the Immunological Institute so that you supported it, perhaps you could own another company in 2016, or 2015, so it would probably be the solution to our problems. However, what is certainly your responsibility was sitting in the government that reached the absolute record I think in European history, in 4 years 25% of GDP a new public debt, credit rating in garbage, interest for Croatian citizens and the Croatian economy the largest after Greeks. You have not implemented any reforms, we congratulate you on fiscalisation, but it is only an effective way to collect taxes and not structural reform. So, no serious reform has been implemented, no strategic investment that has been passed by law was made, I would like to hear what happened to decisions on the famous committees that were to be made on strategic investments by any public undertakings, whether private firms. So unfortunately we haven't seen any of it. I am sure that now in the opposition you will be very constructive and support everything we propose.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1718	Thank you. The honourable representative Ivan Vrdoljak will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1719	Thank you very much. So at the end of this debate something is quite now somethnig completely different. The man's throwing out completely irrational data. I want to list what the deficit was when you were Deputy Prime Minister? We're going to count on it when the public debt went up, what was the GDP drop then? I don't feel like it because I don't have any of it because the Croatian public knows what you've been doing and we don't have any of it to count how bad you are. It's my role to say how much better I could have been when I was here, not to mention how bad you are. We've come up with an industrial strategy. Who brought it so far? When did the industry grow in Croatia than in the last two years? Did HBOR help with that? It is. Did he help survive Croatian shipbuilding? It is. So what do we need in this debate now? To list some reforms that may or may not be? Because I'm going to start counting from Sanader, some of them, I don't want, I don't need that for Croatian citizens. Put the ball down, be better, you have a chance. Raise GDP to 4.5. If we took it from negative 1.2 to 1.8, from negative 1.2 to plus 1.8, you raise it to 4.5, I'll say congratulations. You will not raise it if you go to list whether any committees have been anywhere but if you bring new programs to HBOR, if you bring a new administration better, if you capitalize it and if you place funds in the Croatian economy then you will be better than with such events in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1720	Thank you. Before we go any further, I have one notice, which is, as regards the members of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, so the meeting of the Mandate-Immunity Commission would be at 13:30 in the Chamber of Stjepan Radic, that's on the first floor, room 133. And now let's move on, on behalf of the SDSS and Reformist Representative Milorad Pupovac will take the floor.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1721	Dear President of the Management Board of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, colleagues and colleagues. HBOR has been there for years, and I remember the first beginnings there somewhere in the late '90s, '96, '97. One of the most significant financial institutions in the Republic of Croatia that has a huge potential, huge resources and great opportunities for what Croatia needs most, and this is the development of its untapped development potential and the development of its undeveloped landscapes. Despite the objections that could be heard in different periods, which can be heard today in this debate, this bank represents one of the more solid institutions managed by this Parliament, or which represents a public institution and regardless of who led it, it is that solidarity with certain oscillations according to my modest knowledge always managed to preserve it. In these years, the bank has managed to develop an entire set of instruments and expand the spectrum of its own activities as can be seen in this 2014 report. But one is not and I will dedicate my exposure to that segment, as much as because of the present administration here, and because of us sitting here, former government members and those who today support the current government of us sitting in the Parliament. My first question is, how much money has been invested in areas from Vukovar to Knin? And Senj to Neum? On the north side of Velebit, Biokova and other mountain chains in the area of Croatia. How many of these nearly 9 hundred loans the bank issued last year, or not just loans, but various other financial arrangements, how many of these 5 billion and 100 million kunas went to these areas? 10%? I doubt it. 5%? I doubt it. 1%? I doubt it. Whose areas are these? Celebration sites? At 11 months or at 8 months? Or areas for life for which some have lost their lives and some have lost their ability to live in those areas. Are these our areas? Do we have them in any kind of developmental focus? Is there any consistency between the Regional Development Strategy adopted by the Parliament and the previous government has also adopted the work of the HBOR? Unfortunately, it doesn't exist. It doesn't exist. In these areas there are enormous quantities of water if we do not count the Adriatic Sea and count the main rivers, these are the largest water potentials that exist in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, in these areas. In these areas there are the largest forest potentials in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. In these areas there are the largest pasture potentials in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. In these areas there are endemic potentials for agriculture and tourism such as in other parts of the Republic of Croatia. Go to Obrovac, look at my dear colleague from the Obrovac area, go to the Lapca area, go to Slavonia area, and see how much land we've been treated. Shameful and inadmissible. The indicator is how HBOR funds are allocated, how their territorial distribution is and to whom they belong will show why it is so among other things. This is not a review of the administration, it's a criticism of us who here every year accept reports and we take these reports more or less as a normal thing. But the normal thing is not that the people we've been fighting to get back and that we've made an effort to settle in the Graceca area, these people are leaving Grazac. Why? Because we don't have any adequate development instruments to help them be those Serbs or Croats or thirds so that they start a normal life in their environments. Their needs are less, I'm talking about the whole area, less than 1% of what's available to HBOR. But the instrument that would activate and make those 1% available to them in the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development still doesn't have it, and those criteria are necessary and necessarily strict but simply radically too high for them, in the manner of control, in the manner of support, absolutely inaccessible. The people in those areas need 10,000 euros to cover... For example, but at the same time they need to do it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They need total knowledge, they need total opportunity to get to the market. They finally need electricity to come to their village and water to come to them. Yesterday I was in the Benkovac area, 20km from Zadar's enormous potential can be seen by those who were not born or lived there like me, and today the situation is about the same as it was during the war or at the time of the conflict with the Turks in the area of Bania. I apologize to the Turks for mentioning their name in this historic context, as everything today can be interpreted from the aspect of prejudice. For this reason, we from the Club of Representatives of the Independent Democratic Serb Party and the Reformist Club feel it is necessary, colleagues and colleagues, that the new government enables the HBOR to develop a special instrument that will aimly set up mechanisms to support and finance areas according to my free assessment of at least 40 municipalities in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, which we will likely in tomorrow's story about which municipalities should be abolished immediately, because they are not self-sustainable. So then you can turn the whole of Lika into one municipality, immediately at the same time and declare Gospić a municipality or city, and Korenica, Lapac, Udbina all surrounding municipalities can be abolished at the same time. The same goes for the Dalmatian Zagora, of course. You can eventually beat Knin with someone else around who will be a municipality, and everyone else can be abolished in this regard. Why? Well, because we didn't do anything to be self-sustainable, because we didn't do anything that could really give these people a chance to do something about just sustainability in that area. 20 km from Zadar you have settlements that are without electricity. Buses pass them, but they won't stop by their village. Asphalt will not build them yet fight for their own life and contribute to their environment. So it's our morals, it's our moral obligation to do something, to make these people develop economic potentials that can be sustainable. And not every time we come to the bank not only commercial, but also HBOR I hear the answer, so it's unsustainable. Well, of course it's unsustainable. If we're going to keep that area in a state of unsustainableness and for this reason I repeat once again, Mr. President of the Administration, you're familiar with our initiatives. The members of the former government have also been introduced. These areas, regardless of how many of these or those ethnic groups or members are, regardless of whether they are Eastern Slavonia or whether it is Straight Wheels or the area of Bania or Korduna, we must finally pay adequate attention. If we can pay attention to the FGS, why can't we pay attention to a much smaller amount of 300 million kuna in that area? For us, it has always been a problem to provide 30 million kuna per year for projects in the state budget. You'll see what it looks like this year. We're going to have a problem providing 30 million for 40 municipalities that without these projects can't do anything for their development potential. For the FGS you can provide 300 million kuna in a public private partnership and that is not a problem regardless of what the outcome will be in this respect, and here is the problem. It will be a problem I repeat once again until then if these potentials and needs of these people are to be measured by economic criteria that cannot and should not be applied to them and those areas. The state needs to give them a hand and run them one section of the way until they get out on that stock that they can walk on their own. We've got to get that back. Whether it should be a mini HBOR for these potentials, whether there should be some kind of special fund or something third, it can be discussed and that's what we discussed. But it wouldn't be good to welcome the 2015 report next year, so let's welcome 2017 without having developed this instrument. It's a shame that from Senj to Bihac there are not even 5,000 head of cattle. So as things go, there won't be so many because people are getting smaller and smaller, and there will be fewer and fewer because we treat these areas in a way that is extremely embarrassing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1722	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. She's the rightful representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1723	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Pupovac, here are more mandates here in the assembly, you have listed the areas where I come from, so the Dalmatian Zagora itself, Gorski Kotar, Lika, you have been in the past meeting when in these areas not only in terms of placing credits that are certainly and most likely not placed as the area of Zagreb where the area is developed, then a new Regional Development Act has been adopted where funds have been lifted from the assisted areas of these very areas that you have listed. Cetina region, Vrgorac, Gorski kotar where there are no people, there are no cattle, where we have karst fields fantastic for production such as, and there are no investments such as Vrgoračka polje, Sinjsko polje, where in the middle of summer there is the main news drought in Sinjsko polje and the river goes through the middle of the field, clear river Cetina and so on in other fields. So, I'm sorry, I've been truly following your work for a long time that you didn't represent it in previous terms and when your party was in power. I'm really sorry that you didn't rebel when we were in the Cetina region, this is Minister Greek, gathering a petition against the Regional Development Act, and I'm sorry that you weren't much louder to save that end, really from the heart. And I live in a place where there are Croats and Serbs in a mixed village, we live well together. The river Cetina produces and most electricity, we have catastrophic electricity, so come on down. We have a cemetery of Orthodox St. Peter who doesn't even have access to the road, I don't know if you're familiar with that? So leave this assembly amongst the people, solve the problems of all the people on the ground. I've listened to your statements and so far, they're good and constructive. I think you should come amongst the people. I live with them because I'm from that place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1724	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1725	Dear colleague Bulj, thank you very much for your replica, and regardless of the differences in grades, your replica is dear to me as an expression of your interest in what I care about, and as far as I'm concerned, it's more than enough for us to work together in solving this truly huge and difficult problem that Croatia has for years. As for our work, therefore the work of the SDSS Club of Representatives that you were on the opportunity, and you couldn't possibly have heard that, our comments on the Regional Development Strategy and on the Regional Development Act would have heard more or less the same thing I was saying here today. That you're a little, without the politics that's typical of some colleagues who are looking at me right now, just so much. I could've had politics here today, but I didn't, and I won't have it. But what I think, what I wanted to tell you was that there was no cooperation between us in certain periods when the environments, mixed ethnic environments, received funds for elementary infrastructure projects they would have been in much worse shape than they are. I hope that this policy will be renewed this year and at these times.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1726	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Jaroslav Pecnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1727	Here I would support what Mr. Pupovac was saying and possibly give me one suggestion that seems to me that she might be good. I am no economist and economic expert, but by chance I was one of the founders of a modern-day credit-saving union in Eastern Slavonia, which at the time of reintegration helped actually develop Eastern Slavonia. The point was to facilitate the return of exiles and to prevent, keep as many Serbs as possible, above all Serbs living in the area. So loans were granted with the help of the US government because a contract was concluded, now not to talk about the story, but then credit-saving unions could act or were called credit-saving cooperatives could operate in the entire area of the then Croatia. Today is not the case anymore. They can only operate within their county, and this actually made it impossible for a good project, a good idea, which is that the Union, or at least those who were seriously involved in this business, were credited to those that commercial banks had no interest in, because they were too poor, too small to be in charge of the bank. Large institutions simply did not take care of it. And it might be good to consider having another legal debate on how to enable these unions to operate in a wider area because they are then also financially strengthened, becoming more interesting and able to help. First of all, farm loans are the most invaluable loans, they take a long, long wait for their return. So, it's one of... a way to help what Mr. Pupovac was saying, to give his hand to undeveloped areas, and at least to some, the microplan begins to help that development. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Otherwise, you won't be able to move forward. Sorry God, I come from Slavonia, Slavonia used to be the place where people came from, today it's the place they're leaving. And it's not just a floscule, it's really just a fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1728	Thank you very much. The esteemed Pupovac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1729	I'd like to thank my colleague for his support. I'd just like to say that I'm afraid if we keep this up, we'll lose the old owners and we'll get new owners of that space. We already have them. But these owners won't care whether someone lives there or doesn't. As for European funds and what is possible to withdraw from the European Union, the Republic of Croatia, if it helped, if there was an additional instrument within the HBOR which it would deal with, would easily recognise what economic potentials are, which are specific activities that can be developed in these areas. And then if it was done, then people would get the potential to withdraw funds. The municipalities would get much more potential than they have, but that's not there. People manage on their own, and most of them simply fail to survive.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1730	Thank you. There will be several individual discussions next. And the first one is the esteemed representative of Ivan Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1731	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. This is when we talk about HBOR, a bank established by a special law in order to help the Croatian economy, development and exports, I need to address the issue of end-users. It says here in the report that 5.1 billion kuna is a total loan, of which, if I'm not mistaken, 9 billion through business banks, the rest directly. The question is raised by those end-users, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, the OPGs, families that this money has come to. Here I would, I have an obligation with you to share a few such cases that are indicative, which are indicative, which are directed to other institutions, but unfortunately, to date, it wasn't appropriate how typical it is for us. The first such story is a gentleman from Biograd. So the gentleman bought a boat, was a professional fisherman, went to raise a loan from HBOR, but they sent it to a business bank. When he got there he wanted to give up the loan twice because he saw something strange happening. The criteria suddenly became completely different from those in HBOR, which was spoken of by the Ministry of Defence because the gentleman is also a defender. He needed a deposit, a mortgage and some other security measures. They assured him everything was fine. What happened later? The buying-in station for the sale of fish that, according to the government's programme, only recently came to life in Rijeka was never made, the gentleman lives in Biograd and there was a crisis, difficulties began with the return of the loan. The gentleman has been paying credit for a few years, today he is no longer able, now he's actually in debt slavery. He doesn't work, his husband doesn't work, he's got a mirage waiting for him. Another example was from Bjelovar, Mr T.I., who described the case for our camera that certain legal people and their assistants were looking for bribes to grant a loan to the gentleman and his meaning to the project. He called the bank a network of crime and a politically corrupt organisation. Because of thieving and corruption, he's lost his assets. All his actions were reported to the DORH, he wrote to the prime ministers, there was no answer. In total, he lost a profit of 2 million kuna. The third case is the case of a farm where HBOR loans for stables and male cows were granted, contracts, notes, mortgages were signed. There was a case where the ransom price of milk fell and now people are actually working just to get that loan back, they have nothing for themselves, and they're slowly selling out their assets. These aren't isolated cases. There's a lot of cases like this. They are not singled out for 2014 alone. It states here that a large number of people were thrown into debt slavery. I don't blame you, Mr. Tomasevic, directly for this, but this is actually about the lack of synchronization on one side of the government, on the other hand, of the bank for reconstruction and development. Someone should've told those people, there wouldn't be a buyout station for the fish, or we're leaving the dairy industry, we're letting it fall free, so let it go, don't go there because you'll be in debt slavery for the next few decades. However, this did not happen and because of this lack of synchronicity, because of the trombone and corruption of Croatian institutions many of our citizens were killed. Here I had a chance to share one part of those stories, one part of those stories that I believe we haven't had a chance to hear before, all of this is recorded in the way of the Internet pages. You can look at the whole story at any time so I don't take your time too much. As far as your report is concerned, I considered it somewhat short and dry. I must say that I have read both the law and your review and your report and the other documents you have attached to us, including the Power Point presentation. You've got a lot of numbers in there, you've got a lot of analysis in there, I don't know, credit, currency, compliance risks. You wrote in there how presentations were done, how workshops were done, info days and how nearly 4,000 people reported for assistance to HBOR. I would like to propose, not just an even greater link between the government and the HBOR. It is that if some thousand credits are given to 300 employees to actually check the response of end-users and consider it for your further work. I think it's in your presentation, which I have to notice most of the MPs, because I see them all from behind, that I expected there to be a lot more information about what projects you've funded, who you've given money to, according to which criteria. Isolate 10, 20 projects that you like and say, these are great projects, we'll still work in that direction, and these are bad projects. Of course there must be statistical and some bad projects. These are bad projects, in this direction we don't want to go anymore. So we need a lot more detailed information that wasn't in your presentation or the reports you gave us. Because of all this and as a sign of protest for the fates of these people, the Living Wall will not support this report. I believe that during the year there will be a report for 2015 and that you will then give us more information than a dozen, twenty concrete projects and their success. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1732	Thank you very much. We have one replica, the distinguished representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1733	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Sincic, you have cited several examples here, so the people who entered the credit arrangements later came into great difficulty with the repayment of the loan, and later with their existence because they put the mortgage practically into all their assets and even the one they lived in. And that's where we agree, and there have indeed been cases where, for these or those reasons, credits have been granted. However, whenever credits are sought and some institutions make a business study, but it is not true, it is not good information that there have been no such cases in which loans have been rejected. Even in these cases, especially farmers when we talk about them, the business plan has passed the IPARD, the business bank has passed through, the HBOR has passed, but it is stuck at HAMAG because simply when it is verified that the business study itself is not good, it means that the return on investment is not good. So, it's not just that there are cases that are negative, that have brought people into such a situation, but there are opposite cases where people were angry and they objected on the one hand you say you're looking for investments, you're looking for incentives to the economy, and on the other hand you're making it impossible. I think the HBOR in that part has done a particularly good job lately and that in this way people must, I agree with you in the beginning to warn that one investment will not be profitable, especially in agriculture where we do not know these input parameters. You mention the price of milk, there are a number of other things. Let's say that if we talk about pork and later the price of pigmeat on the market and therefore, we have to be particularly careful here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1734	Thank you. The honourable representative Ivan Sincic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1735	Thank you, pal, for your rep. First of all, I was talking about having HBOR finance projects on one side. Of course, no one expects to fund projects that have no future. But if it is estimated at one point that this project has a future and has good conditions, that it has a good return, that it will not actually cause a bad credit, or credit that will never be charged, that it will not throw someone into debt slavery, then I expect it also from the government that implements the policy specifically in agriculture, to meet the conditions to allow for the loan to be returned, and not then to remove its share and then to make people look up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1736	Thank you. The next individual replica will be the distinguished representative of Josip Lek.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1737	Dear President, I've reported a hearing. Thank you very much. [[President intruding: Yes, yes. No, I'm sorry. My mistake. Debate, of course.]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, a few things in the debate have asked me to apply for this subject. Namely, my assessment is that all HBOR administrations should be commended from establishment to this day. Although it was a monetary institution that kept it safe, I would say elevacy and it was not the target of daily policies and should not be the target of today's policies. Secondly, since 1994, banks and the banking system and banking policy have been a very intriguing topic and an unprocessed topic, if I may say so. All commercial banks have a fundamental objective which is a legitimate maximumisation of profits. And it's been coming true since '94. To this day, I'd say maximum in favour of the banks. And the assessment that HBOR, therefore the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development has no aim of maximising profits makes it very important in the development concept of the Republic of Croatia which must not be an independent concept of HBOR. HBOR, since it is not working on the principle of maximising profits, must follow the policies of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and in order to successfully monitor the policies of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we must agree that some development policy or most development policies cannot be achieved in one term, and I would even say the simplest policies such as the food industry or agriculture as a whole, without speaking about the science development policy that seems to be the most important policy for our society, that we participate in world science and development processes. When we look at the things that have been in the past years, then we might notice exactly when the stagnation in society is that it falls and the volume of plasma in HBOR. When he has no ideas, he falls and falls over HBOR. Secondly, I think it is very important, and here several times mentioned when it is not the core objective of HBOR maximising profits, rather than monitoring projects that bring and achieve the goals of Croatian economic policy, development policy would then be good if Croatia had a strategic plan to develop the area. Is it the food industry, is it agriculture, is it tourism or is it another industry? Why am I saying that? Each of us has contacts with people who are as well said in Croatia from the real sector, as only they know they have problems. I've talked to people a few times, so they say we're completely uncompetitive to get a job in countries that have a much more stable financial system and less interest, we can't compete with companies from Austria, Germany or I don't know which their banks follow with 1% interest as they follow us with 5 or 6 percent interest. It seems to me, therefore, that it would be very important to assess in these national objectives whether it is possible to establish or transform or arrange that HBOR or any other institute is monitoring the export economy. This is already saying that this bank needs to be transformed into an export bank, an investment export, and I don't know which other ones. It seems to me that there should also be opportunities for a municipal bank because Croatia would say very suitable soil that in commercial business, commercial banks make excellent profits without great risk. All in all, therefore, it is indeed necessary to support the business of the HBOR, to support, that a good bank followed the government's policy without hesitation should be said that at the end of the term, success has been shown in macroeconomic indicators, which certainly, which were certainly influenced and influenced by the HBOR policy. Here for the following report, the bank should know what are national objectives, what national interests and what areas are of interest to be monitored by a bank such as HBOR with non-commercial interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1738	Thank you very much. The next individual exposure will be that of a respected representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1739	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs, this is a very important topic and I am pleased to encourage such an interest among MPs, but it certainly arouses interest among citizens and entrepreneurs who de facto in HBOR need tools, levers, support so that they can do as easily and cheaply as possible. What my colleague Leko said in his debate is the fact that in Croatia the banking sector lives very well, that the interest on companies in Croatia is greater than in countries where the banks of mothers come from and that we must sometimes use cheaper sources and opportunities with such an institution to make our business cheaper and to have cheaper business. On this side of HBOR, according to my assessment, performs its role especially here with impatience, I expect 2015, where the results are top 12 billion, over 12 billion kunas, it's one of the record years, I think there's only one more somewhere here and that's also in this term, so I think it's 2012. So it's obvious that the interest exists, that the resources exist, that there are channels. Someone in the debate earlier said that a question of 15 or 20 new employees, a little incorrectly Mr Shucker mentioned politics in his opening statement because of what if you have more investment, if you watch little reports that the relationship between direct investment and investment over banks is constantly changing. Well, it's also in our interest to have maybe 100 more employees there if these placements go directly below interest rates. So this cost that we will achieve with several HBOR employees will certainly make it easier for hundreds of millions of kunas to cost our entrepreneurs and allow them to be more competitive. And that's what I want first to point out, I'm particularly pleased that we have more and more directly placed funds through HBOR. Here is when you look at 2011 and 2014 it is, in 2010 pardon and 2014 which in the report means the bank went 76% in 2010 and 2014. 44, i.e. directly even went 56% in 2014. That's significant, I think it's a lot less cost than that the banks earned on the margin that they could make. And what also pleases me but also concerns me from the other side because it shows a rather conservative view of our banking sector towards investment is that in 2012, 2013 and 2015, HBOR participated with almost 25% of the shares in Croatia's investments. So if there was no HBOR there would be 25% less investment in the Republic of Croatia and it still says that the HBOR is too important and that it needs to be strengthened and even humane and should allow people to have more and more I would say the resources and that more credit placements are being placed. What is also important is that HBOR continuously introduces new measures, meaning from lower interest rates, and from risk sharing, and from micro credits, and from leasing here is one measure that was introduced a year and a half ago where the woodworking houses concluded a contract with HBOR a certain credit potential where small and medium-sized enterprises were able to take the most to Leasing through HBOR in collaboration with banks and HBOR opened that money road and most importantly, there is no currency clause. And they took advantage of the possibility that they would also provide this placement and enable our small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who thus bought machines to be as competitive as possible. The EU funds are absolutely important, I know it, because also directly in the competitions that were conducted for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and the funds were allocated, almost always there is HBOR present. Here we saw in 2014 609 million kuna and directly approved 279 million kuna, a censure of exports that is crucial. So exports that are supported by 4.6 billion kuna but this year 2015 are even stronger and the HBOR monitors our economy. As for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, it appeared in the debate that here as a problem is and HBOR does not follow small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, I am pleased that 85% of the users in 2015, 80% of the users in 2014 are just small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. This is where around 7 hundred companies are working in 2014 and in 2015. 1800 companies. When you look at the amount of those who have achieved certain, and I would say support through that they have received a cheaper interest rate than it is marketable, it is a great Suport, and on this side you have to give recognition to the HBOR that it is doing a good job and that it should continue to do so. And that's why I'm glad that, that here in the Parliament, most of the time, here's what I hear from the debates, I hear that we're going to support this work. And of course HBOR should always be monitored in its work and policies of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and I hope that the new government will continue with these trends especially towards small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. As far as professionalism is concerned, difficult words, political staffing, etc. should be avoided, people and their careers should be respected. Well, even the president of the board who's here, I think he's a man of envious careers and he's been through a lot in the economy and on that side we've been giving him support and he just justified his trust in 2015. And let's let go of who's appointed, I've already said in a replica how people are brought in at the age of 30 without any experience at the head of that institution, and then they're made by great experts. And as for the allocation of money, I'm proud that I was never directly in the HBOR in any way pulling someone's sleeve from the administration to grant this or that loan and the political allocations of the loan was not, it's responsible here, unlike some previous cases. Well, there's a publicly available example, here's an entrepreneur who's been retreating to black chronicles where HBOR with 60 million kunas remained short, it's about Mr. Fioliæ. How he got the loan, what it is and how it's approved and controlled that I can't establish it. But it's an interesting piece of information, and it would be good if things like that didn't happen anymore. It's something you shouldn't be doing in HBOR. So politically positioned persons, and then the man seemed to me in the Croatian Parliament, right in his private business to push their projects through HBOR. So those eyes must be wide open. No one should be allowed to do so particularly who has direct influence through or informal or direct influence on the management structures of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. That, I guarantee you, as a member of the Supervisory Board, has not been for the last four years. If there were loans and projects that supported the Croatian economy, here is something also mentioned around the railways. So Croatia, I guess, is in the interest of building railways in Croatia and building projects that will help our exports, our products etc. The HBOR was there to support not only the railways but also the shipbuilding and all those who needed the support. And, of course, there is always a need to find ways in the rules that allow certain things and related to the European Union and the European Commission to find a way to those who need it most to be as competitive as possible. On the other hand, I think the job that's been done at HBOR for the last four years, this administration has done the best possible for the last two, a year and a half days. And I also support this initiative, which my colleague Leko said, because it is seen in the work itself of HBOR that a special, perhaps a special bank that will monitor only municipal projects, because HBOR is very much present in that part. Now, the information I have seen today that I am also very pleased that small cities in the Republic of Croatia are developing through HBOR, so Sisak 50 million kuna this year invests in infrastructure facilities and in his city to raise the standard of citizens and yet finally our small and medium entrepreneurs do so. Thank you very much and my support for HBOR's work.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1740	Thank you. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Blazenko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1741	Dear Mr. Maras, you have in some way challenged the quality and work of the previous president of HBOR's administration, attributing it to his, and we will tell young days or young years that everything at the age of 30 has taken the lead. I will remind you, and you know very well that Kudikamo was younger when the government of the late Prime Minister Racan also supported the entire term of office because of the extraordinary quality of work of that same administration president and the government was at the head of HBOR. It was not worth 10 years later when he was kudikamo, along with this youth, we are more experienced and we are curding with greater potential and knowledge and contacts in the world which ultimately proves this latest function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1742	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Maras will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1743	Well, you didn't listen well to what I said. I have called for the presentation of fellow Shuker who mentioned politics, influence, staffing, etc. And then I referred to myself as not a problem in that situation. Well, you can't tell me that someone who comes at the age of 30 without a great or any management experience at the head of HBOR is more experienced and without political protection, and someone who has passed the great administrations of large companies in the Republic of Croatia has no experience, or is politically appointed. When we look at the two people of that chairman of the administration from the 1990s and the one we set up in 2014 by Mr. Christian, who told Shuker, Mr. Shuker that there was a shorter time and Mr. Tomašević it was heaven and earth. That's all I was talking about. I didn't say a man ten years later wasn't better. Well, he was certainly better than ninety and I don't know which came first, the second, the third, the irrelevant. I'm just saying that we should stick to our discussions always the same criteria. You can't accuse someone of bringing in an inexperience who has five times as much experience as Kovac had when someone put him there as HBOR director. So you probably didn't understand what I was saying. I didn't call for 2013 but for the 1990s. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1744	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Ivan Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1745	Mr. President of the Parliament, respected counterparts and fellow MPs, the issue of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development is extremely important because it is called the Repeated Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Let's ask ourselves if he has the right name, right? Of course, someone will say after the end of the war, and perhaps something today has assisted a lot in the reconstruction, but the question of whether it is a development bank, that is the real question, each country must have one such institution to correct market irregularities, that is to say, where classical commercial banks are not interested. So, to remind the HBOR was founded in 1992 and today he can say let's say, in general, instead of the development bank, he was mostly a transfer bank which, in a significant part, selectively and politically similarity, placed loans. Thus, the HBOR received transfers from the budget further transferred instead of crediting and actively participating in the economic development of the Republic of Croatia. In this context, various lending programmes have been developed through business banks. You see, the question arises if this is a development bank why it places its resources through commercial banks. On the basis of this, such lending channels have been developed which were not in line with the objectives of national economic policy, so Mr Leko has asked a question earlier, and I agree that we do not have Investment Strategy, and Mr Pupovac also said that where, in which places and Miro Bulj. Therefore, there is a question of justification and the purpose of such a business through business banks, or perhaps the HBOR is incapacitated, there may be no real staff there that would thus approve loans. Today, it is impossible to obtain lists of credit users obtained from the HBOR or the criteria under which they were granted, or the sectors in which they ended up. Well, here's a gentleman from HBOR to inform us, to send us later those reports that there may be no trace of any doubt. It is interesting that HBOR has granted nearly 8 and a half billion kuna loans during the period of economic growth of GDP, from the economic downturn of GDP from 2008 to 2014, and according to information from the end of last year, it should reach as much as 12 billion, while commercial banks have implemented a debt policy in that period of net amounting to 8 billion kuna. So it turns out that the economy and business bank balances were saved solely by state budget money. I think he's had enough of that. In addition, it is enough to say that the average interest at which HBOR places funds is 1 and a half percent, while at the same time the state issues bonds and is owed at an average interest rate of 5 and a half percent. The more at one point in 2010. HBOR became so-called a qualified investor on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, in venture investment funds, etc. funds for economic cooperation. For such a position today, it mainly pays advance fees for the management of the independent investment of such funds. Well, then, I'd like to give you a few more observations. Finally, HBOR operates under a special law, it is very important here for MPs in the Parliament to tell, not under the Law on Credit Institutions under which banks operate. He is not a bank in the classical sense of the word, so taxpayers of 320 around HBOR employees should see more transparency and this more information that I have mentioned earlier. That is why we at MOST consider and suggest the following: HBOR should become a real development bank with professional administration, depolitised by the Supervisory Board composed of all stakeholders of business academic and political life. It is necessary to eliminate the dominant political and to introduce economic criteria and objectives of business. We further propose that the law should define the jurisdiction of the State Office for Auditing the operation of HBOR. Furthermore, we propose to define loans, credit allocation criteria and, in this sense, to encourage exports, and to publicly publish sectors and those business systems that receive loans or are guaranteed for export. And another concrete proposal to report to the Croatian Parliament on such transactions, users, sectors. I am here as a new representative surprised by the communication between SDP, HDZ, HNS representatives. I see you agree well and support, so you don't see any important phallings in the business of HBOR. But we at the Most see it. What's the problem? One representative said don't give me any more language, because if I start talking what I know won't be good. Then the others said from the second camp okay, and then a little bit of a side. Well, it would be good for the Croatian public to bring out some of that dirty laundry to finally reposition this HBOR. Because if you gentlemen think that we came here to the Croatian Parliament to listen to the same reports every year after which no one asks citizens, or gives them a subsequent report after that, then I don't think it makes any sense to put this as a part of the agenda. We have here regarding HBOR, so I suggest that this issue be put on a special note, this is a matter of state interest, that the issue of repositioning the HBOR is a bank, whether it is a transfer fund, how business will be put on the agenda to make a decision to remove these incestuous links between politics and the economic principles of business. And on the other hand, I would also like to say that it would be good to hear what the cost of the loans that are granted and to remind those who may not know the guarantees they receive, the HBOR is in charge of the foreign market, the state guarantees it, it enters the public debt structure, so it is very important for us to know what it is. And finally, Mr. President, let me still have some time, I'd like to ask one question directly related to this, but it has to do with all of Croatia. The so-called program will be implemented these days. Bail-in means solving dueioza specifically in Italian banking. The estimates of competent institutions say that around 150 billion euros means uncharging loans from the Unicredit Bank and Intesa. The Bail-in technique means let's say healing and transferring what's not chargeable to so-called. Bad bank Bed Bank implies from 1 January this year that the state will not directly bear or taxpayers such costs, but that it will bear shareholders and save more than 100,000 euros. Since these banks have their daughters in Croatia, it would be good to ask for information from the Croatian National Bank about what is going on so that one quality information can be sent to our citizens so that it does not come to misinformation, and we all know that the bank lives on trust and to prevent possible rumors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1746	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused several replicas. He's the first of his distinguished MPs, Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1747	Thank you very much. Dear Professor, you are telling your colleague Lovrinovic that the work of HBOR has been questioned and that it is subject to a special law. The work is questioned exclusively and I agree with you, because as you say you are an expert, there are no results mainly in these areas where Croatia should develop. But as an expert, I'm sure you're more involved in this, you'd ask a few questions because you're familiar with these facts. Whether the HBOR administrations generally meet political wishes and that all these decisions covered their decisions with the decisions of the Supervisory Board, which comprised six ministers and three parliamentary representatives with salaries that were generally six times the average Croatian salary and would eventually come out of the HBOR, in short of hundreds of thousands of kunas. The second question, along with political patronage and commercial audit of HBOR's operations, was avoided by the State Audit Office. Who has, so we have a paradox that the use of public money is not controlled by the state but by private audit. And another question, there's a short time. Today, there are banks and even those that are in liquidation after the CNB's resolution, which were dominantly HBOR's clients. So today we have a bank that has failed, left as much as 300 million kuna credits that were paid by HBOR, the Center of the Bank. Would it be interesting to see who the ultimate beneficiaries of these loans were? That is why I support this idea of this being a special item of the agenda here in the Assembly and that the HBOR gentlemen tell us everything publicly and loudly what happens to the bank paid by Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1748	Thank you. The esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1749	I thank Mr. Bull. Well, Mr. Bulj and I are interested in answering some of the questions you asked, but what you mentioned I didn't know was that it was part of the supervisory board of six ministers and three parliamentary deputies, but I just said you just confirmed what I said, it's a typical incestuous relationship, right? So that turns out to be a political self-service that works that way. So, gentlemen, if we want to do something for Croatia, let's make it from HBOR or a bank, be a bank or call it a trust or transfer agency or something, so we know exactly what it's about. What you're asking for is one debt, actually one 300 million, I don't have the information that was placed by HBOR, so me and the others would be interested in what it was about, who were the users of these loans? Unfortunately, I don't have a glimpse of anything like that. And when you ask about the state audit or who audits the reports, I don't know, I read somewhere in the press that four or five years ago the State Audit gave a report, otherwise commercially, if someone has better, fresher data I'd like to correct me, but I don't know how to answer these other questions because I don't have more specific information myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1750	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1751	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Lovrinović, I fully support your now public publication initiative for all credit users in HBOR, we have done this in the Croatian Small Economy Agency, so all those with guarantees are publicly available. I almost lost my spine, and I broke down to try to do it at HBOR, but let's just say, I didn't have that support from Mr. Shucker who sat with me on the board of directors to do it. I stand for it, if you have prepared a written conclusion regarding this point to commit the HBOR to a future public declaration of credit, I will vote for it. And I'm sure the SDP club will also vote for it, because that's transparency, that's what we need. So you have a business opportunity, you write a conclusion and some of these days, the HBOR announces the public who gets the loans, I'm interested in it, and I've been fighting for four years. Unfortunately, there was always an answer in HBOR, a business secret, will decrease the scope of the loan. Why would someone be limited by being made public if he had been credited to the HBOR so he wouldn't report for the loan? For what? What's the shame of getting a loan in HBOR? That way, I too often found it unclear why the administration would put it that way. Unfortunately here we always kind of threw the ball out and eventually it didn't happen. If you make a conclusion in front of the Most Representatives' Club, I will vote for it and I am confident that most SDP deputies will be around this point. So on that side, I stand for transparency, and I want it to be known. And now I'm going to tell you how it usually works. I did one surveillance, and then there was this lady who was doing the PR with HBOR who got a loan that she accidentally took advantage of. Now tell me that the president of the board was familiar with that loan? It's a big doubt to me that it is. So the person she's working with on a daily basis she's on, that case is publicly known, she made a deal with the D.A., arranged her apartment instead of using money for business purposes. And then don't tell me there weren't any political menus-you cases, when in that particular case I know something was done that wasn't allowed and that the person on a daily basis was working with the president of the administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1752	Thank you. The esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1753	Well, Mr. President, maybe if there's any more replicas, then I'll raise those questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1754	No, no, that's not how it works.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1755	Here, great, good, no problem at all. This is a good suggestion, we've thought about it, just since we're new here we need to see the technique of whether we're looking for a break so we can suggest... So we'll see, but anyway, we'll look for it, like you said. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1756	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1757	Thank you very much, President. Okay, guys, I don't know if I missed anything, isn't MOST part of the ruling coalition? So, colleague and all those who discuss, colleague Bulj and colleague Lovrinović, do it, you are no longer here to give ideas and initiatives. So we take the transcripts nice and in a year we look at what is the composition of the board, what is the composition of the administration, what are the audits made. Well, you don't have to give yourself an initiative through the Parliament. That's what we'll try to do, you can entertain the public, but don't forget you've taken responsibility, you're part of the ruling coalition. You can't go to the Croatian Assembly with an initiative and an idea, do it. You have your ministers, your government, you voted for her. So don't fool the Croatian public here with funny topics I'm giving the initiative. So you do it for a year on the report we see, I take a transcript of this debate and we read, the compositions of the supervisory boards, the compositions of the administrations, the audits carried out, the new credit programs. Which is all that's now said that HBOR should be, the transfer bank, done. So that's what I mean first and foremost what I need to do again. The colleagues from MOST who appear for the word can do all this today. You're part of the ruling coalition, if I missed anything, please inform me.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1758	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1759	Here I thank Mr. Vrdoljak, he's obviously still full of energy, recently finished his mandate and he's always been and he's been taken over in HEP, he wanted to spend the IPO on speed. We'll do this within the framework and the government, etc. And what I'm saying, so we're not, or in this case specifically when I'm talking, we're not here to tell hollow stories, we're here to work. Well, that's what you'll see anyway, isn't it? Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1760	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1761	Thank you very much. My colleague Lovrinović, I only answered the line for one thing. You said here that the state provides guarantees for HBOR loans. During each budget you have two acts, one is a budget and the other is the State Budget Act where the Government proposes a mass of guarantees issued. The report on the implementation of the budget in 6 months and 12 months shall list the guarantees issued and the guarantees protested and you will see that there is no HBOR there. HBOR has a good credit rating, HBOR has a good reputation. And the other thing, what I was saying in my individual debate, is that they have the institutional banks of the European Union, and we, among other things, own that finance certain projects that are linked to government projects. And HBOR when it gets that loan from the institutional bank, it's practically a dedicated loan. He doesn't need a guarantee from the state. But this is the way we talk to each other. We're going to do one thing that the previous government made. Even though I was speaking here in Parliament, which is the case of the HAC. According to Eurostat, a company that has 50% of its own income does not belong to the general government balance sheet. And therefore, if the German KFV does not fall under any criteria under the public debt of the Federal Republic of Germany, then neither the Croatian HBOR under all these same criteria can fall under the public debt of the Republic of Croatia. So he does it clearly by ear and by the rules of how similar banks in Europe operate. And all that stuff you said to me, I agree. We can publish a bill of amendment to the government. Now you'll find yourself in trouble with loans that HBOR places along with business banks, where business banks take risks and everything. HBOR has no risk here, only practically processing loans, giving funds. By law, you can't publish that loan. Same credit where the risk is half. And therefore, I fully agree with you for transparency so that there wouldn't be a bickering here if someone had given someone something under the grain. And be assured, none of those people who work at HBOR risk and also the president of the administration to sign some kind of credit so he can give this one under the grain, so he'll be responsible for it tomorrow. They're all highly professional, educated people. So...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1762	The esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1763	Of course, someone wouldn't get me wrong. I don't speak at all. I don't speak individually to people who are employed there at HBOR. They're obviously doing their job, having a certain organization, a hierarchy. I am saying, here was the reason, or the conclusion, that the role, functions and tasks of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development were repositioned. There are high-quality people there. This bank, if it is a bank, can play a very important role in developing particularly less developed regions of Croatia, small, medium-sized entrepreneurs. I said that function so far has not been achieved to the extent to which we expected and which one we require. Now, I wouldn't debate this guarantee issue because I don't have enough time. And yes and no. Therefore, there are arguments for yes or no, but the purpose of my inciting the discussion, or the entire Most, is to really wonder if we need more HBOR like this. If he puts a good deal through the banks, then let's find some bank and we'll never do it again. This story, the topic, should be opened to reposition the role of the HBOR as well as some other institutions that will come to the order of the next sessions and the next days. Here's the idea.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1764	Thank you very much. I'd like to conclude an argument with that. And now the word has on behalf of the promoter the esteemed president of HBOR Administration Dusan Tomaševic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1765	Honorable MPs and MPs, only three sentences. So, I did my duty on April 1st, 2015, and I can tell you that no one has ever put any pressure on this year. In fact, it was working in good faith and it was done a lot. So, this whole team over there that's employed is very professional, highly professional, it came from commercial banks. We also brought a man from a commercial bank in 1.5.2015 to step up these relations a little bit. As for the questions of colleagues of Sinčić, we will send you a written explanation regarding 22 employees in 2014, because right now I cannot tell you exactly which employees they are and where, where they are employed. But definitely, at the end of 2014, the reorganisation of the system continued in 2015. And we're de facto prepared for what's prof. Lovrinović just before asked and spoke, which is to be ready for as much exposure as possible, i.e. as much independent funding without intermediaries. As far as the average is concerned, let's say that the approvals from 2007 to 2015 were about 6 billion and 300 and 400. This year, 2015 for which you will receive the report was 7 billion and 800 only credits. So a total of 12 and something. That's what a huge number of clients went through our offices. We used to get 4, 5 clients every day. Someone here mentioned earlier that the sub-capacitation of our de facto interested businessmen who appear to us is true to you and there must be something else to do. No matter what we are, we are a bank, or an institution that does not act according to a profit principle. We still need to take care of the money we've been entrusted with, and we need to keep the value of that money. Here's a thank you for all your suggestions, we've recorded it, we've written it down and let us contact you, call you. We'd love to see Mr. Professor come along and everyone interested in us and we're absolutely open. And one more thing, so the last revision that we had was in 2013 and that audit had given an unquestionable opinion. So we're absolutely transparent, open, we have all the analysts. At any point in any of these 8600 parties that we now have with us, or 6800 clients at any time, you can come to us and see who this client is, how he got the credit, how we supported him, etc. As for the issues of fellow Members of Sincic, which relate to farms, those systems that were approved in 2004 and the fifth, I don't know if you remember these government reforms in this context when this rural development was encouraged, unfortunately, we still have a lot of problems today. So 10 years after that, we have problems because these people haven't been able to find their way into the market economy, we've given them money, we've loaned them money. However, the game for them was very, very difficult. And I understand what my colleague Son is saying, because every day de facto we meet up with these things. So, every day, we get memos to resell those loans. But look, these are 2004 and fifth-year loans, and that's a very, very big problem. And we have a directorate called the Risk Services Directorate, and there's no time for any of those loans to end up in that treasure house. That's a pretty big problem in general. And I actually support your initiative to raise it to some level and see if we can work it out together. As far as charging goes, at this point we have 85% chargeable. So it's 15 percent non-refundable. Your commercial banks have 17.5%. And when we look at a total portfolio of 132 billion since HBOR was created, 2% of it is non-paymentable. Now you see how much that is, it's about two billion. Normally nothing shouldn't be insurmountable, but life makes its own, 24 years of HBOR's life is here. I ask you kindly to come and talk to me and be partners in this work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1766	Thank you very much. That's definitely when I close the debate on this point, and we'll vote when the conditions come to pass. Point three of the consolidated agenda, we will postpone it because the committee did not give its opinion, the parent board did not give its opinion on it. So when the board gives their opinion, we'll put it on the agenda. The following is the annual HBOR financial report for 2014. The report is submitted by the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following Decision: "The annual financial report of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development for 2014. A year.". Please vote. Of 117 votes 113 for, 13 abstentions 1 against, I find that most of the votes were decided in the proposed text.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1769	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen representatives before you there is a report on the work of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investment for 2014. In 2014, the year was an important year for HAMAG for several reasons, first of all one of the important years leading to institutional change. In 2014, HAMAG BICRO was created by joining the Croatian Agency for Small Economy and Innovation with the business innovation agency of the Republic of Croatia. So entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia have been given a central place to encourage small and medium-sized enterprises in the Republic of Croatia. When I say the central place then I mean the fact that in all phases of project development, so my business ideas from ideas to the realization of ideas, so commercialisation and restructuring actually, entrepreneurs have the tools offered by the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investments that can help them develop their business ideas. So let me give you some data for 2014 or statistics that were done in HAMAG BICRO. One of the most important instruments for encouraging small and medium-sized enterprises available to HAMAG BICRO are certainly guarantees. What we can say and what we can see so in 2014 through guarantees is directly supported by the opening of 1200 new jobs. In total, 274 different projects in small and medium-sized enterprises were approved with a total value of 328 million and 380 thousand kuna, i.e. the value of guarantees issued. This enabled the placing of 637 million and 957 thousand kuna bank loans, which HBOR loans, which are loans to business banks. And in this way, 1 billion and 23 million and 670,000 kuna investments were realised in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. What can be seen, therefore, in 2014 compared to 2013 is the decline of activities in the issuing of guarantees that can be explained by several factors. One of the essential factors is the slowdown of the credit activity of business banks in particular HBOR in 2014, but there are also certain administrative conditions introduced in the guarantee programmes of HAMAG BICRO which led to the fall of the guarantee activity. First of all, since 1.1.2014 trade has been excluded as a business activity supported by the guarantees of HAMAG BICRO and trade has been one of the significant segments of support for small and medium enterprises through previous guarantees of HAMAG BICRO. Furthermore, HAMAG BICRO also makes it impossible to refinance credit with the same business bank as soon as possible, and introduced only the possibility of refinancing with other commercial banks. Also due to the European Commission's regulation on state aid rules, due to stricter conditions for agricultural activities and renewable energy sources, HAMAG BICRO also had to reduce or reduce the number of guarantees issued in these two sectors. As I said in total effects, direct effects are therefore about 1200 new jobs through the Hamag BICRO guarantees. As regards the activation of guarantees in 2014 a total of 40 million kuna was paid for 50 projects for which you also have in the report the companies or projects for which the guarantee was paid. HBOR was paid the most to 21.6 million kuna, and the second in a row is HYPO Bank 6.5 million kuna. When we look at the total value of the portfolio on 31.12.2014 the value of the HAMAG BICRO portfolio was 1 billion 221 million and 580 thousand kuna. In the portfolio of guarantees issued, the agriculture sector still has the largest number of guarantees issued 492 million kunas. Next comes the processing industry 392 million kuna, and tourism 104 million kuna. What is noticeable in the structure of guarantees is that the share of agriculture over the years falls as the share of the processing industry, or tourism, increases. As far as birth distribution is concerned, 28% of the value of guarantees is granted to women entrepreneurs and 72% of the owners of the company to men. The rate of activation of guarantees has been 12% since the date of establishment of the agency since 1994. The next essential instrument for fostering small and medium-sized entrepreneurship is micro loans, HAMAG BICRO enables entrepreneurs to be paid to beginners up to 120 thousand kuna at a maximum interest rate of 0.99% per payment period of up to 5 years and with a start of up to 6 months. In total, 45 projects totalling 4 million and 320 thousand kuna were approved in 2014 with 50% being placed in production activities and 50% in service activities. The grants also amounted to around 3 different measures in 2014. In measure A1 for micro entrepreneurs, so these are entrepreneurs up to 10 employees, the smallest entrepreneurs, a total of 19 million and 276,000 kuna were approved, the number of projects approved was 101. In the processing industry, 67% of the value of the assets was placed in the service industry 24%, in the ICT industry 9%. In addition, the B1 measure was intended for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and was intended for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and a total of 47 million 817 thousand kunas were approved. The number of projects we supported through grants for small and medium-sized enterprises was 67 and the measure was exclusively intended for the processing industry, so 100% was placed in the processing industry. Most of all, in the metal industry 35%, in the food industry 14% and in the wood industry 10%. And finally 3rd measure, innovation, so measure B2, totalled 6.2 million kuna, supported by 17 new innovative projects, in which the ICT industry precedes 90% of the appropriations. It is also important to highlight the birthright, so as far as women entrepreneurs are concerned, the measure B1 was 17% of women registered entrepreneurs, 21% of the funds were granted. To measure B1 16% of women registered entrepreneurs, 33% of the approved funds and B217% of women registered entrepreneurs and 29% of the approved funds. There are also grants for innovation, so the measures we inherited from BICRO. First of all, it is necessary to highlight the POC verification of the innovative concept. In total, 32 projects worth 7 million and 16 thousand kuna were approved in the private sector. And in the public sector, so POC public 45 projects totaling 7 million 709 thousand kuna. There is also a project RZUM totaled by entrepreneurs 4.5 million kuna of grants. If we're going to make a brief conclusion, so all of what we did in 2014, I have to say that 630 different small and medium-sized entrepreneurs were approved through different programmes. Therefore, 430 million kunas were granted direct support to create just over 2000 direct, slightly more than 2,000 jobs. We must therefore also mention the preparation for EU funds, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has decided that HAMAG BICRO is the implementing body of the second level for the Structural Funds of the European Union so that, in 2014 and especially in 2015, intensive preparations for EU funds. And since 2016, we expect therefore active inclusion of HAMAG BICRO in the European Union's grant segment and structural funds. Once again, I would also like to thank the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee on Gender Equality, who supported this report on the work of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investment. And I would also like to highlight the list of all companies that have been granted any kind of support or guarantee published in the report on your benches. If there are any questions, I am available for your questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1770	Thank you very much. Now I'd like to ask if the committee's rapporteurs would like to take the floor? Yeah. Dear Representative Gordana Sobol, Chairman of the Committee on Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1771	I thank Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Liovic and his associate. At its 1st session held on 2 February 2016, the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament discussed the annual report of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investment for 2014 as an interested working body. In the opening explanation, the proposaler's representative met briefly the members of the Committee with the content of the report and, as already said in the opening statement of 2014 with the merger of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy and Investments and Business Innovation Agency of the Republic of Croatia, a single agency was created by the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investments. The purpose of the merger of these two agencies was to strategically create a single system that would enable entrepreneurs to achieve support through the research, development and commercialisation phases of the project in one place. The 2014 report shows that the biggest interest caused the grant of grants under the entrepreneurship impulse in 2014 whose priorities and actions are aimed at fostering micro-entrepreneurship and crafts. The structure of the approved guarantees according to birth status compared to 2013 has not changed significantly. In 2014 guarantees are still dominated by legal entities in which they are owned, i.e. representatives of the society of men. In 2014 as well as in 2013, the proportion of women's guarantees granted to the owners was 28%. As regards individual, therefore, according to certain measures to the extent of micro-entrepreneurship and crafts, the share of women registered was 17% of the total reported, while of the total number of aid granted was 21% allocated to women entrepreneurs. The total amount of grants to women entrepreneurs was allocated to 2555 thousand kuna. When applying for support from measures, small and medium-sized enterprises and crafts of the total number of all applications received were 16% women entrepreneurs, while the share of support granted to women entrepreneurs reached 33%. Within the measure Innovation in entrepreneurship, the share of women registered entrepreneurs was 17% and the share of support granted to women entrepreneurs was 29%. In the debate followed by the committee of committee presidents, she recalled that there is a Strategy for the Development of Women's Entrepreneurship in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2014, 2020, which aims to improve the ratio between men and women's entrepreneurial activities. Therefore, their ultimate goal is to increase the number of women entrepreneurs, owners of companies, or crafts. The lawyer for gender equality assessed that a step has been made in recent years, thanks to inter alia and greater information and education of women for entrepreneurial projects. After the discussion, the board members unanimously propose to the Croatian Parliament to reach a conclusion adopting the Annual Report on the business of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investment for 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1772	Thank you very much. And now I'd open up the debate. The first one will be the distinguished representative of Vladimir Bilek on behalf of the Bandic Milan 365 Club – Labour and Solidarity Party of the National Minorities of Ermina Lekai Prlaskaj and Vladimir Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1773	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected rapporteurs. So the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investment in this Annual Report has comprehensively presented the results of its work from 2014 which, based on the presented results, are essentially the conclusion that the agency has realised the defined plans and objectives in reality. What and through which guidelines were being done, the agency provided guarantees that supported the launch of new business, micro-credits where they were the most favourable credits for micro-enterprises, the grants that were incentives for perspective projects, support for innovation and research and development, EU projects and support for user development, and the promotion of investment and improvement of the investment environment. There was a continuation of quality institutional support to fostering a small economy, self-employment and job creation, and fostering exports and innovation. These were the main guidelines in the work of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investment. A strategic merger with the BiCRO Business Innovation Agency. The Agency's activity is further expanded to support innovative and technologically-oriented companies in Croatia and aimed at developing and coordinating measures of national innovation policy and the necessary financial instruments with the ultimate objective of mobilising the private and public sector for investment in R & D. The Hamag BICRO guarantee programme has been continued, which significantly facilitates access to capital for companies. This programme is recognised as a first-class asset for banks, and its impact is best reflected in the creation of new jobs and the retention of existing jobs. There is also a very attractive micro-credit programme that enables beginners to make fast and efficient funding especially for self-employment purposes. The implementation of the Counterguarantee Agreement with the European Investment Fund began in early 2014 and significantly strengthened the guarantee potential of HAMAG BICRO for beginner companies and reduced the risk for the entire portfolio of the Agency. The entrepreneurial impulse in 2014 was corrected and simplified compared to the previous year, all in order to facilitate the application procedures for entrepreneurs. In view of these observations and difficulties of entrepreneurs from 2013 in the grant process, the volume of requested documentation was reduced in 2014 and the costs were minimalised. At the same time, the transparency of information and advice exchange was increased and that year, so the grant policy continued towards encouraging a small number of quality and innovative support projects that are consistent with projects and project proposals. In order to continue to support innovation and high technology, HAMAG BICRO has promoted numerous opportunities to potential foreign investors, investment benefits in the Republic of Croatia. An investment catalogue of innovative projects containing an overview of innovative and high-tech companies interested in equity integration with institutional and strategic investors and a description of their projects has also been developed. An overview of entrepreneurship support institutions for start-up companies in the form of entrepreneurial incubators has also been made. Direct communication with entrepreneurs, organisation of entrepreneurship forums, workshops and lectures with the aim of fostering dialogue and analysis of the existing situation in the small economy enabled the agency to adapt existing instruments of financial support to the needs of entrepreneurs in order to achieve positive effects on the development of the Croatian economy. By pooling this great knowledge and experience in the field of innovation, patent protection, research work, and cooperation with the technological and academic community on the one hand and an effective financial support system for small economy entities on the other hand, the Croatian public sector is significantly strengthened by the positioning of the newly created agency in the area of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. I have to say that I'm adhering to the work of HAMAG BICRO with the fact that I can say that I have one recommendation, because I can't get the impression when I've been reviewing your reports and when we've seen the description, the details of where they've gone, so they're really proportionate. Here we were, we also had a report here on gender equality where we saw that we were really looking at that part of the birth and the lending of young women entrepreneurs. However, seeing that from Zagreb to the east is very little and very little is the share of the people of entrepreneurs, the OPG or the projects that have received their share. In some ways I can't say, I think that in this part of Croatia, above all I'm talking about Slavonia and Eastern Croatia are quality entrepreneurs, farmers with good ideas, with probably innovative ideas that could be, meaning to push through here, I believe that you've been doing a presentation of your programs and projects, I would ask you to maybe step up that part right in this part of the Republic, not only in big cities such as Osijek or some centres, but in smaller cities such as Bjelovar, Daruvar, Našice as well as we would raise that part of Croatia that really helmets us both in regional development and everything else. But what I have to say is that the number of 2,000 new jobs is commendable and that is why our club will certainly support this report of yours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1774	Thank you. Next up is Honorable Representative Gordan Maras on behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1775	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Let me say here at the beginning that we will support this report and the work of HAMAG over the past period and there are several reasons for that. The primary agency that has been profiled among small and medium-sized entrepreneurs as an agency where you can obtain a guarantee that is also worth 27 credit institutions in the Republic of Croatia that co-operate with HAMAG confirm this. So that's what the greatest value is. So if you get a guarantee or 50 or 80% you know that you can make good use of that guarantee in a credit institution and there won't be any problems about it. It is a guarantee on the first call and it will be quality and quality insurance than once when you give your own real estate or stock for what banks otherwise require. What is important is to point out that HAMAG's activity is very large and when we compete from year to year in 2014 something fell but a total of 1 billion and 200 million guarantees issued and thousands and thousands of companies that used these guarantees over the past period says that good work has been done. In 2011, there were a hundred guarantees now we see about 300, and in 2015 I am convinced that there will be even more because the constant expansion of the programme and the possibility followed by HAMAG BICRO so that in 2015 microcredit was introduced, there will be a lot of guarantees precisely for these smallest companies that we wanted to support with such simple and cheap and quick approval loans. What is also important to point out that HBOR has been quality monitoring not only banks but also the Croatian Credit Institution, i.e. the Bank for Reconstruction and Development. You see that in all the programs exactly HBOR is in the right place. Unfortunately, sometimes it dominates, or not sometimes, but always dominates, and in this part of the activated guarantees paid, saying that the HBOR itself is the one that takes credits with high risk and higher risk projects. And on that side basically HAMAG stands behind a lot of quiet with its guarantee of those loans that were activated in HBOR. Unfortunately, there are projects that are still being dragged out of 2007, and in 2008, a colleague, Lovrinovic, left, but some and projects that may have been nothing but politically initiated like agricultural projects, farm formation, pig farming, livestock farming and these projects that many have been questionable and ultimately HAMAG takes responsibility for these projects. What I am pleased to note here, with the assurance that both the entrepreneurial impulse and the projects that went through HAMAG, or the grant of grants, have been profiled, not only what it was following, which is what the companies got and how it was realized, but also the results. So we have always contributed to these reports and how many people have been employed, so how many of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens have found jobs in these companies and on the other hand how much income and exports have increased. And you see basically through this report that the money we invested from the state budget in projects is justified because these money returns through employment, export growth and income growth. Of course, the programs that have been implemented in the innovation area are inevitable, where many of the projects that you can look at today are based on the headlines and are, in some ways, the pride of our small and medium-sized entrepreneurs around the world and such as the Roman and some others have used programs that went through BICRO or through HAMAG BICRO. So we have one agency that can generally track our small and medium-sized entrepreneurs from incentives, guarantees and up to this investment in innovation. And the plan of course they have ahead of them is to be the main channelizer of EU funds and grants that go towards our entrepreneurs, and on that side, that agency has really done a big job already. What I imitate, of course, as well as my colleague Sobol in front of the Committee on Equality, is that many entrepreneurs are involved in these projects and you have seen what is the percentage and those who have been approved and those who have applied for what was once questionable by one association of business women, if the programme or programmes that are implemented directly towards women entrepreneurs continue to benefit these projects? And we decided, or the former government decided to further stimulate points of projects where women entrepreneurs appeared and eventually it turned out that even more projects were adopted than it was when certain funds were determined for women entrepreneurs. So we have also made a step up from that side and I would say that even more resources have been allocated than in Croatia is essentially a registered female entrepreneur, which is basically saying that let's say better quality projects and that's kind of for every praise and support. And what I'm particularly pleased about is that when you see the structure of those who have received the guarantee and how much of the activity the guarantees are issued, then you see that the processing industry is the one that dominates it. So the former government's decision is to go, to go with guarantees to those who create a new value, who employ people who are exporters. And here's 67% of the support issued went exactly to the processing industry. On the other hand, I think that this should continue because it is essentially production and export that is what the Croatian economy is raising and what should continue to raise it. In addition, I absolutely support the debate of my colleague Bilek that special attention should be paid to areas where relatively less support or guarantees have been issued, and this is about areas which unfortunately have fewer applications. Perhaps you should spend most of your time or education for those parts of Croatia. And it's not just the job of HAMAG or the state, it's the task and the business sector, it's the task and association of the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of crafts that do part of it, but they don't do most of it. And on that side, the activation of these institutions is absolutely necessary. And I think she'd be stimulated if they were to earn their income on that basis. Because when you make your incomes guaranteed by the membership principle, then you're not really motivated to jump to the first ball or head and look for a job around. On the other hand, of course, the initiative should also be for them to be a little more market-oriented and then it won't be necessary to ask HAMAG to do education and from the ministry, although it does and works every year... All the county headquarters are being visited so everyone can get information, go through that 2,3 thousand entrepreneurs, but we need to insist on including the larger and these associations that I've been talking about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the end, and I'm glad that I can show you, to see, not that I can show you, is that here you have totally transparent who got the guarantee, through which banks, within which program, all the companies. So all 270 guarantees. Paradox, and I'm reaching out to the point before, here are the companies that got credits and through HBOR, so here we can see it and HBOR can't do it for some reason, I said quite often she threw the ball out. So when you're in front of a goal, then the defense player slips in and throws out the hatch. So you don't do anything. So my question here and the position of the SDP club is why HAMAG can do it for the same loans as in HBOR. And the proposal for colleagues from MOSTA, I can see that Mr. Lovrinović is missing, but here are the other colleagues, if he's going to write a request or a conclusion, insist on that, here's another confirmation that you can write who got the loan and that you can know the information on how much, under what conditions, within which programme. HAMAG also does that for micro loans he's done and for guarantees he's done. And I said, many of these guarantees are just tied to HBOR. And so the paradox is that on one side of the HAMAG report we see what HBOR did and he doesn't want to present it himself. And on that side, remove everything you can from transparency, any doubt that someone's got something over a relationship, that they prefer someone. After all, anyone who reads this and is available to the entire Croatian public because we also have it on the Assembly's website, everyone can look from their town, from their county who has won and eventually compare whether it is a real project and whether the project is functional or someone has got it in some non-transparent way. And it's the best fight against any doubt that can be drawn between us that someone political has helped someone. And here's what I'm saying to another fellow MOST, that's what my good colleague Vrdoljak said, they can very easily apply it as part of the ruling coalition. There's no need to act like an opposition, suggest and ask someone else to do it when you can do it yourself. For example, within the last point of the business provision it allowed to be proposed and concluded on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, I said that I would support it that the HBOR must publicly publish its documents. But since it wasn't done now, it might be, I don't know, but if it's not now, then there'll be another debate. It will be held for 2015 in half a year, and then it can be very simple to apply. So this is something that is the best guarantee that non-transparency below the grains of credit and guarantees and support will not and should not be. Of course it can always happen that a guarantee is activated and you saw it in this report, but it's a risk of business. The important thing is that it doesn't pop out of certain frames. Unfortunately for me, it is symptomatic that the most important thing goes to HBOR, but that is because they also give their nature the most risky loans, so that I can understand it on that side too, so I would say report the Croatian Parliament further. And that's why I commended myself for my work, for the transparency and the goals that were achieved because they were so and planned. It started with 100 guarantees a year, now it's 300 or slightly less than 300 in 2014. This year 2013 was over 400, and I am convinced that there will be over 500 guarantees in 2015. And when you add up all these companies that have received support, when you look and support through grants incentives, when you look at HBOR credits, there are 5,000 companies in the past that are in one or another state-supported period. And then of course, as a result of everything, it's no wonder, that this particular sector has achieved the best results. And I'm talking about small and medium-sized companies in 2014 and 15. And he was an unforgivable part of the recovery of the Croatian economy. And if it hadn't been for small and medium-sized enterprises, they probably wouldn't have seen GDP growth in 2015. Thank you very much and support again.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1776	Thank you. The Republic has a distinguished representative Ivan Domagoj Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1777	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, in a minute, I'll have a literal opportunity to speak much more on behalf of the HDZ Club, but I only have one simple question for Mr. Maras. It was still his resor, which is, so this was your resor, so my question is very simple. Since we all agree on the importance of HAMAG and what he could and should have contributed to the Croatian economy, above all to medium and small entrepreneurs, then explain to us why the dramatic fall of the guarantees issued in 2014 compared to 2013. So we support that, all wonderful, wonderful. But how do you explain the fall and why the fall when you're never more infatuated for medium and small entrepreneurs, or guarantees to continue using funds in a bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1778	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1779	Well, the answer is clear. I think that's also said in the opening part. So HBOR had less activity in 2014, and since the biggest beneficiary of guarantees and this is seen by the report exactly HBOR, then there were slightly less guarantees. But what's important is to say, even though the fall was for let's say 30 percent in 2014 when we watch HAMAG's work it is 250 percent higher than it was at the beginning of 2011. So, we're off the base of 100 guarantees. But I mean, you're a businessman, you know what two and a half times increase a job with the same number of people. Well, that's for clapping on itself. If you made two-and-a-half times more guarantees than in 2011, it's a terrible result. On the other hand, I said, a year earlier there were 400, in 2015 you will see more than 5 hundred guarantees. So this agency works five times more, 500 percent than it did in 2011. And on the other hand, there are certain oscillations. In 2014, I said that it was somewhat weaker, but the fact is that it was essentially more immeasurable than it was before and that this should continue. And whoever he is, that is, Mr. Horvat, the Minister of entrepreneurship and crafts, needs to be supported. That's the right direction. So that's how our small and medium-sized enterprises should be supported, and this is one very powerful weapon. Because when you see how many guarantees have been issued, when you see how much support has been issued, how many companies are involved in that story, no one can say it's a negative story. And on that side, I hope that's how the job continues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1780	We move on to the next debate on behalf of the HDZ Club, the distinguished representative of Domagoj Ivan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1781	Imagine, Mr. Maras, what is the growth compared to the time when HAMAG didn't exist? Total growth, no, the number of guarantees issued? 'Cause Hamag used to, you should've been back in '90 or something or I don't know '2001. But well, respected chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, and above all I would like to say how important the work of this agency is for Croatia and the Croatian economy. In view of the fact that we were all in a multi-year crisis together, given that in the meantime, the crisis was largely devastated by the Croatian private sector, especially medium and small entrepreneurs and craftsmen, and that, on the contrary, we have an inefficient and public sector, then we do not need to ask ourselves how we have recorded the incredible growth of public debt, the resulting drop in credit ratings, and so in this vicious circle today we have the biggest interest after Greece. But not to say it again, I've already said a little honor in the replica and Mr. Vrdoljak. On top of that, Croatia and Croatian entrepreneurs ended up as we know in the EU. Why do I stress that we ended up in the EU because, of course, our incompetence has then come to an end in recent years. Taking into account all this previously said then, I would like to stress the importance of these discussions and the Croatian Agency for Small Entrepreneurship. I'll say hello to the beginning of the fact, we think it's a good thing that Hamag Invest and BICRO joined together. We think that this way we should follow probably some other agencies, simply after that can be more effective, not less active. I'll come to that later. However, it is unacceptable to explain Mr. Maras, which is that the HBOR was not there, and that is why the drop in the guarantees was issued. So I stress for Croatian middle and small entrepreneurship, for craftsmen, for all those who run the business, women entrepreneurs are absolutely not interested and should not be interested in excuses and explanations about why something could not, but should have done so. And it's absolutely pointless to talk about what happened in 2004, seventh, tenth and eleventh. Today we are talking about the comparison in 2014 and the 13th. I hope that what you announced will show growth again in 2015. Why is that so important? Because just today, a large part of especially medium and small entrepreneurs need funds, they need funding, they need state guarantees, they need support from their own country, and not just through HAMAG. But today is the theme of Hamag. If we don't understand it starting with this Croatian Parliament that no economy in the 21st century should be a private sector can advance if the state, government, administration, the entire political commitment or the worldview does not stand behind its private sector. Today, when we are a full member of the EU, then it is certain that we cannot move forward much faster or faster than we have done before. So, one comment, I said, and on the board, it might not be bad in the future of HAMAG colleagues that the activation rate that was in 2014 was 12.5% just so that there was a comparison in writing with other countries simply so that we could monitor how successful and effective you are, which is not, I don't aim at having someone call you tomorrow because it would be contrary to what I said, which is why I think that HAMAG should take the risk for the Croatians first and foremost medium and small entrepreneurs and craftsmen as well as HBOR. HBOR debate we had not long ago. I would also like to say that, unfortunately, the figures show that some of the support that should have been allocated to the halving, the explanation for this was that there were no funds in the budget, and then my remark is the same again. And this is the state of Croatia, regardless of political parties, and most of them have to decide whether to support their own entrepreneurs or at risk, and I will remind us all and now I stress the cost of the risk of business in Croatia is the result of what the government did, or administration. There's not much philosophy here. So I'll do it again. Therefore, the result of the risk to business in Croatia, which is growing and the worse business, is the consequence, the direct consequence of what the governments have done or have not done or should have done, and they are not, and these are reforms. Special commendation for the granting of support to Vukovar-Srijem County or entrepreneurs there as a recovery actually for the consequences of the flood. I think that's great, and I think we'll agree that we should especially commend it. Furthermore, I would also like to say that this may not be a topic today, but it may certainly be for the Croatian Agency for Small Entrepreneurship but also for all of us as we have a Public Procurement Act in the EU, I think there are few countries in the EU that are not trying to protect their domestic, medium and small entrepreneurs. If we are going to be aware of everything and bend it all the time, and the public sector that I am really going to overcome in a relatively small Croatian economy at the price, if the only parameter that will lead to a public tender from public companies and public administrations will lead to Croatian entrepreneurs being burdened with interest and debt after years of crisis, they must also be price competitors who times to the Chinese. Well, I think it's perfectly clear that you can't expect a growth in production except in exports, which is sad. So what now? The message is that the next Croatian state is not interested in your products, so you should go to France and Austria there and sell it, so here is the growth of exports, some Euros will come. That's not the way. I've been in this situation too often and personally to be asked in foreign states, so what are you doing at home? Well, at home, you know nothing. That's not the Croatian state's interest. So I want to draw attention to this special attention, especially when it comes to medium and small entrepreneurs and craftsmen. If the state doesn't care about them, no one will worry about me. I am for the market, the market is welcome, we are in the market economy but we are not fooled that someone else will take care of our economy and our entrepreneurs. And we expect from them the recovery and employment of tens of thousands of people in the coming years. So there's no one else, I doubt the state will hire the way things are. Here, then, finally commendation for effort and work. HDZ will accept the report. We believe that 2015 for Hamag will be better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1782	Thank you. The Republic has a distinguished representative, Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1783	Thank you very much. I'm glad you supported the report because it's really obvious that people did a good job. What's important is that 2015 will be even better. So we will have over 5 hundred guarantees that will achieve HAMAG and, on the other hand, a whole series of programs that HAMAG now monitors the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts. So last year we also had a new grant program for microcredits. More than 2,000 entrepreneurs used this programme, not all took HAMAG's guarantee but one large amount of entrepreneurs. So you need to combine HAMAG, combine subsidies that the ministry has and do the best possible effect. What matters and what everyone has to agree with regardless of whether something fell or didn't, or whether it is, you have to set yourself up some... means I'm starting at 100. That was what it was in 2011. And I can tell you that in just one year we'll only be about five years from 2007 to 2011. Well, that's commendable. So on this side here I would also like the new minister to tell people in HAMAG I expect 1,000 guarantees annually by the end of 2019. So I performed, I said the first time I sat down people, said you had 100 I want 500. And that's what we've come to. Now I expect a positive trend also to continue, because as you said we need it and, as you said, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs cannot especially expect the smallest ones on the market that banks will treat them as mothers rather than more like stepmoms. And on that side of the country must stand more behind them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1784	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Domagoj Ivan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1785	Thank you. Well, I'm glad we're getting along. As I must say, quite often over the past few years, at least when there were economic issues on the table, when something was too much we knew we supported from HDZ not just reports. However, when you do so, then expect at least a minimum of correctness when you provide accurate data, and the exact data, I will not repeat them here now, when we have criticised the most often we have criticised the argument. Every tango needs two words. And that means that the Croatian public, which I have often witnessed is confusing. When someone says look, it's 10 long and then someone says 20, so let's finally break the practice of competing here with fake numbers. So let's put in practice that we can't understand ourselves about facts and statistics. It is that statistics can often be called a lie large, a lie and statistics but regardless there are institutions in the Croatian state that can still be trusted. So let's go, actually I'm calling on it, not to compete here about something that's obvious to everyone. Because it's obvious to everyone the State Statistics Bureau shows clear figures on both employment and unemployment and public debt. So when we say something on this side, no matter what we've changed now, so you're in opposition, let's just stick to facts and arguments in this kind of debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1786	Thank you. The next debate is on behalf of the HNS club Liberal Democrats, Honorary Representative Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1787	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club will support this report in the hope that the results for 2015, as was said here and wished, will be better. Namely, I will not owe, congratulations to Mr Liovic and his team on a very comprehensive report. I'd only have a few board of directors suggestive remarks perhaps for the future and certain proposals regarding the work of the agency itself in the coming years. I'd like to take a very short taxi to try, that... I get, if I can get some, because I have some dilemmas about, I see Chapter 8, 1.8.2. means a certain, certain risk of the operation of HAMAG BICRO's pre-banking procedures and bankruptcy proceedings, so that's the amount below of about 23.5 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know how much there is, that way you take over, whether it's a guarantee or a grant that I've been able to read, which is with these assets and whose risk it is, I assume, the risk of the agency or the state. I ask the question of how certain guarantees and certain grants could be granted to companies that came into the situation in the current year. Furthermore, I would say that, I'm asking a question with the goal of the agency in the coming periods, whether to make a better valorisation of the requirements that I believe are being made, it's being seen from, and the report mentions field controls, but it means that more attention is being paid to that part. What I'd like to say is, here I also commend these new projects and programs that have been activated. You're practically trying to cover all those needs of micro-small, more micro and small than medium-sized entrepreneurs. Medium-sized entrepreneurs already have more developed infrastructure so that support from agencies may not be so much needed in certain parts. Namely, Chapter 7 Encourage investment in improving the investment environment. I think it's an area that should, and I come from local self-government, work far more on synergy with units, bodies of regional, local self-government in terms of creating an investment environment. I believe that in these contacts you have learned that a large number of micro and small entrepreneurs in particular have certain problems of saying simply not only in making business plans, not just filling out the competition lists, running for certain projects, because there can be achieved a very good synergy effect with local self-government units because I believe that the vast majority, environments and municipalities and cities have certain good contacts and it has some local support regarding the increase in exactly their absorption powers for and whether they are guarantees, whether they are grants or particularly European Union funds. What I would say is, I would ask that if possible for, because the 2015 report follows us regardless of what the material is already printed, but I say, I am interested, in this particular part, in these funds that are in some way lost or not, if they are how much through pre-determined settlements and bankruptcy proceedings. I'm saying because I know what kind of check has to be made to approve guarantees or funds, and that's why I'm saying I don't have a specific answer to those questions. Overall, what I would also like to mention is quite a lot has been said in the past year and the 14th and 15th and is still being said and it is not only the problem of the Croatian economy, especially small and medium-sized, it is also the problem of the European Union, even the European Council had certain conclusions about it, targeted education of staff, reading from reports, certain projects, but I suggest far more direct contact especially with regard to vocational schools and further schools and universities. More specifically, it means that it does not slave to certain programs that show that it may be of little interest to them. I expect far greater innovation and far-reaching far-reaching others, meaning precisely targeted, targeted. Specific targeted education for the needs of the projected industry. The problem is the shoe industry, I come from the area of Varazdin County where the processing industry is relatively well developed, standing firmly on its feet, but lacks expert personnel. I recommend that in that section if, I believe, and I believe and know that you have both knowledge and capacity with the Resort Ministry, targeted with vocational schools to go to specific, in the development of concrete support even directly and irreversibly in equipment, in particular classroom, student cabinets whether within the professional schools, whether within the company that is ready to provide both technical staff and for additional education and practice of existing ones. There are also some units of local self-government that, through their support, I especially say micro, small, small enterprises provide the OPGs with free services trained for EU project leaders, for local self-government business plan makers free of charge, provide services to interested micro and medium-sized entrepreneurs. This is where you try to find a certain niche and that exactly the agency includes whether through support, whether through co-financing certain I don't know if it's about equipment, whether it's about starting up entrepreneurs potential etc. I hope that when we have a debate for 2015 that I will get and expect of course answers from you. I say once again we will support the report and I want this 2015, of course, especially 2016 to be more published. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1788	Thank you. We're moving on to individual debates. Dear Representative Marko Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1789	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Liovic. The report notes that the purpose of the merger of these two agencies was to strategically create a single system that would provide support for entrepreneurs through the research, development and commercialisation phases of the project in one place. However, it is generally known that BICRO until the merger of the two agencies had placed around 50 million kuna annually to researchers for research and development. In 2015, some competitions were opened, but with the resources of the Ministry of Science and Education, from the World Bank's loan. The report also states that 96 employees were employed at the agency at the end of 2014. Since at the end of 2015, you published a tender for undefined employment for 32 new employees in the National Journal. So you'd like to answer two questions: why didn't you allocate funds to innovation, research and development support programmes from the budget of the Ministry of Enterprise and what is the current number of agency employees? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1790	Thank you. And the next individual debate, distinguished representative Ivan Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1791	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, I'd like to get involved in this debate. First of all, I would like to commend and congratulate and thank all those people, and that is a noble skill that out of nothing is able to create something, which is the idea that is willing to turn into a project and then sell it. And I wish I could sell somewhere out on the outside world markets. However, Croatia still has many problems on the road. I'll just mention it. I'll quote it. something was published I think in Free Dalmatia by, so it was an interview with Mr. Ivan Mrvos, the inventor of the smart bench. I don't think the problems begin just with the lack of an incubator, the main problem is that people who have ideas don't know who they'd turn to at all. Over the past few months, I've often had social networks where people have interesting ideas, and they don't know who to turn to and take further steps. Those who deal with software already manage, but those who deal with physically palpable hardware have a lot more problems and I say that from experience. He says further, if I hadn't had my father's workshop in the garage and the tools, I doubt she'd ever be a smart bench. Real products require a larger team of people, but also high-end equipment to make the first few prototypes. You're going to have to redistribute certain funds to even get proto types. It sets out further examples of the tool, etc. The end of the quote. So, what was said here before. The real sector is what can draw our country out and that is something far more valuable in terms of efforts than the public sector. We have to, I'm appealing here to both the government and the HAMAG, the BICRO and other institutions to create some kind of cluster where people with the idea will come, where design and consulting offices will help them make a project out of ideas. Let's give a million, two million kunas, thousands, two thousand squares, let's make some workshop where people like this come in, where we'll do proto types, and then we'll be able to keep doing products. It is a process that in Croatia as far as I know it, and I listen to stories like this on a daily basis has not yet come to life. So let's give these people who have ideas, who want to do something with their own hands, and that's rare to say they're doing it again. Let them work, give them money, tame their banks, cut their bureaucracy, cut their corruption, and declare those who succeed. One part of course won't succeed, it's the same natural thing, they'll try another time with something else, they can do national heroes and let them work. Here's an appeal to the institutions. As for your report, thank you for everything you've done so far. Croatia is still waiting for a long way to develop the real sector and for ideas to start to be appreciated, and not in love and who knows what in Croatian society in principle we will support your report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1792	Replica, the esteemed representative of Blaženko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1793	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Namely, Mr. Sincic, how Mr. Ivan Mrvus comes from Solin and how the bench, the smart bench so-called. The smart bench that he is and has only man and affinity and will and work inventors recognized truly all over the world. It was recognized in a way that the first smart bench we at the local administration in the City of Solin bought from him and helped him realize that bench. And in this way he was interestingly accepted at all levels of Hong Kong, Tokyo, on all continents wanted in Sarajevo, everywhere our benches were installed but unfortunately when he sought land for which the local administration helped him to tell which particle of the country, but located in the DUDI must seek demand was simply rejected. In this way, it is true what you said, but we must tell you that at the level of local administration, there was an extremely large support because the question is what and how to react in Sarajevo, and in Rijeka, and Hong Kong, Tokyo anywhere that we did not buy the first bench in town and encourage it to further develop its truly innovative product. That's why I'm appealing here to DUUDI for his case to be dealt with as urgently as possible because many, many investors are waiting for the realization of his project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1794	Replica's distinguished representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1795	As you noticed and commended the HAMAG report, in particular look at the last few pages, i.e. these projects that are related to investment and development in new technologies, for example... which has 32 projects supported in 2014 among which many companies are able to compare with the one you said earlier. We are also HAMAG, here it is not mentioned in this report, but it will be in one of the next, provided for exactly these projects as you mentioned and... which means that people will be able to get investment in property. It doesn't take a man to get land sometimes, so it's a cost, but he needs capital to go. So he with the capital can go and buy land. So in the past, I haven't been inclined to share states with the state like that. There must be concepts, there must be projects, there must be capital, there must be a clear vision of what will eventually turn out to be. So if you're looking for a country, you have to have a complete project, especially when it comes to local self-government units. There we saw a lot in the past where hundreds and hundreds of municipalities were getting land from the state in the end there had not been any company. And that's what we have to fight. Because the state country can also be bought out, but if the project is surrounded. And on that side of HAMAG works very much for BICRO and there are some in the debate who have noticed that we have just wanted to reduce the state administration, so we have brought together two agencies that are now fully covering small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. HAMAG is working on these projects and there are many programs that can be useful to our entrepreneurs, which is, of course, seen in the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1796	Thank you. And the final address on behalf of the promoter is Mr. Darko Liovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1797	Dear Mr Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that you have had a truly constructive debate today and that you have decided to support the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investment for 2014. Here, let me also refer to a few questions that you have asked in your debate, which I believe I am obliged to give you as an institution representative in some way and an answer. Regarding Mr. Bilek's debate, I thank you, therefore, for your club's support. You asked, or you asked, a question of regional prevalence, so support and guarantees. I agree with you. Indeed, Zagreb as the capital of Croatia and northwestern Croatia, together with Istria, consumes it, so let's say, that is precisely the most important part of the guarantees and support and our activities are precisely directed towards education and therefore towards stronger visibility in those regions where this representation may be less, where the information of entrepreneurs is lower. I must say that our public calls, or applications, are made exactly in a way that favours those areas where the level of economic development is below the average of the Republic of Croatia, so that additional points are allocated to these companies that come from these areas. I absolutely agree with you in this direction should continue to ensure that this regional spread of guarantees and support is as good as possible in the future. Regarding the issue of Mr Milosevic and the HDZ club in terms of the drop in the number of guarantees issued, that guarantees were as I said in the opening debate fell, there was a decline in the credit activity of business banks and HBOR. However, as I was also quoted in the individual debate, in the initial debate certain administrative conditions in the guarantee programmes we introduced also led to the fall of the guarantees issued. First of all, as I said, we have excluded trade as an acceptable activity, we have made it impossible to refinance or issue guarantees to refinance credits with the same business banks, we have introduced stricter conditions for granting guarantees in agriculture in terms of non-approval of guarantees for crafts and we have also disabled the issue since 1.1.2014, so guarantees for renewable energy sources. These two last items are the result of actually stricter rules implemented by the European Commission in terms of granting state aid. I also agree with Mr Milosevic about the Public Procurement Act, especially I would like to point out that HAMAG BICRO and the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts should be found in the future through the Public Procurement Act, an instrument of incentives, more intensive promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises, and I am thinking primarily of innovative public procurement. Therefore, for questions about Mr Batinic's pre-fashion settlements from the Croatian People's Party, please allow him to respond. Therefore, that these are not pre-departure agreements opened in the year when guarantees were granted, but in fact those are companies that were granted the guarantee in previous years, so in the development of the agency, practically since 1994, which are therefore in 2014 for which the report came into appropriate problems and therefore in the pre-demand settlement process. As mentioned in the report, a total of 23 pre-demand settlement procedures were launched in which HAMAG BICRO only paid for two cases, so there was an activation of the guarantees until in the remaining 21 cases of HAMAG lost funds in the pre-demand settlement. Also, I agree with Mr Batinić about projects of education of entrepreneurs and the introduction of education for vocational schools, so absolutely HAMAG BICRO, together with its experts, should be more intensively present in the area. Regarding Mr. Sladoliev's questions, let me also answer the question of support for the innovative process. In 2014, through the ROUM programme and through the POC programme, therefore the corresponding funds were placed, so it is an amount of 18 million kuna. In 2015, the amount of the contracted funds rose to EUR 32 million. What I must say, I agree with you, so innovation is the basis of the development of the Republic of Croatia and it is absolutely certain that grants should be directed towards innovation. In this direction, what is said, the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investment has invested funds in two venture capital funds. One is the ENIF, therefore, it is a regional fund established by the European Commission together with the countries of Southeast Europe where Croatia is the first country out of that ring to pay funds for innovative projects, for innovative entrepreneurship. Also, together with the World Bank we have developed, that is, we are developing a capital fund, a venture capital fund that will exclusively be intended for innovative entrepreneurship. And that's 2.5 million euros in the next period, so for that so-called. The SID phase and about 20 million for innovative entrepreneurship. As for the number of employees, on 31.12.2015, the number of agency employees increased as you said from 96 to 119 employees. In the light of the increase in the number of employees on the basis of the Government of the Republic of Croatia Regulation on tendering in those agencies that will be responsible for the implementation of the Structural Funds of the European Union. HAMAG BICRO at this point was sub-opacted, i.e. at this point it is still sub-opacted. Therefore, what the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted as a regulation is that, in 2016 and 2017, additional capacity is also introduced in line with the budgetary opportunities to address the issue of the absorption of European Union funds and structural funds as painlessly as possible. And of course regarding Mr. Sincic's question and the information issue of entrepreneurs, I absolutely agree with you, so HAMAG BICRO should be even more visible among entrepreneurs, the presence on the ground needs to be intensified. We try it, we do it, however, and the capacities that we have in it limit us. As for the particular entrepreneur, therefore, you mentioned the company BANKO, unfortunately there were also relevant problems in the company that also ended up in a pre-bank settlement. But in particular, this company has received guarantees and grants from HAMAG BICRO, so I believe he had no problem with the information of our programmes. But all other entrepreneurs, I absolutely agree with you should and must be informed about it, more about what and how HAMAG BICRO is doing. I thank you once again for the constructive debate and thank you for adopting the HAMAG BICRO report for 2014. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1798	I thank Mr. Liovic. That's what we're done with the debate. I'm closing the debate. And I'm setting a break until 3:00 when we're going to proceed with the next point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1799	Next is the Annual Report of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investment for 2014. The report is submitted by the Croatian Agency for Small Economy. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal from the parliamentary authorities, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report by the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investments for 2014. A year.". Please vote. The vote is over. 105 votes for, 12 abstentions. I find that a unanimous conclusion has been reached that it has been proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1800	Dear colleagues, fellow MPs continue the session. The next item on the agenda is - Annual report on the work of the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities for 2014 The report is submitted by the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities based on Article 13. Law on electronic communications. You've received the material into the boxes. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy. You received a report from the board at the session. Does the reporter want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Mr. Drazen Lucic, President of the Council. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1801	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, good afternoon. The HACOM Annual Report contains a report on the activities in the electronic communications, postal and rail markets, i.e. activities in three areas regulated by HACOM, as well as reports on the financial operations of HACOM in 2014. In mid-2014 HACOM changed its name to the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities. In particular, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications and the new Law on Regulation of the Market in Railway Services entered into force on 16 June 2014. The Agency for Regulation of the Market for Railway Services is attached to the Croatian Agency for Mail and Electronic Communications in the newly created Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities. Since the Railway Market Regulation Agency is attached to HACOM in the middle of the year, the activities of the Railway Market Protection Agency and the activities of HACOM in this market are also included in this report. The shortened name HACOM has been detained for recognition both in the country and abroad. As regards the financial operations of HACOM in 2014 I would point out that HAKOM is not a beneficiary of the state budget, but is financed from the market which regulates, and accounting is managed in accordance with the Regulation on the accounting of non-profit organisations, the Law on Electronic Communications, the Law on Postal Services and the Law on the Regulation of the Railway Markets. The revenue and expenditure shall be expressed in accordance with the principle of occurrence of events independent of collection or payment. In 2014, HACOM made no financial losses. In fact, HACOM's own expenditures are fully covered through regular revenues that HACOM, with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, has collected in the markets for which it is responsible. In addition, material expenditure for HACOM workers in 2014 was lower than in 2013 although HAKOM was attached to the ARTZU during the year, and the association of ARTZU at the end of the year did not increase the total number of employees while it was normally higher during the year than it was in HACOM. In 2014, HACOM returned the market for electronic communications to the market by investing in the network, applications and services, and... computer equipment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Investments are part of Hacom's own Internet development programme and broadband Internet access in areas of special state concern, mountain-mounted areas and islands. In addition to expanding the availability of fast internet in Croatia to areas where this has never been the case as added value, these projects have a positive impact on the development of the economy in the Republic of Croatia and beyond the area of electronic communications. Croatian companies that received jobs in competitions under the implementation of the programme have hired new workers and received references for jobs done in the EU Member States. The total revenues of HACOM in 2014 amount to just over 87 million kuna and are higher than planned for around 5%. First of all, due to the allocation of the second part of the digital dividend, as well as the additional available frequency spectrum in the 1800 mega hertz area. The total expenditure of HACOM in 2014 amounts to around 120 million kuna and is lower than planned for more than 16%. The financial plan envisioned €44 million for capital donations for the Internet development programme and broadband Internet access in areas of special state care, mountain and mountainous areas and islands, as well as for the project to remove interference and improvements to television audiences, some 30 million kuna have been spent. The rest of the savings were achieved by the good management of HAKOM in particular because the acquisition of ARTZU, HAKOM did not increase the number of employees at the end of the year overall, and the costs of accession were minimal. The accounting negative result of the business is due to the fact that the Financial Plan for 2014 of capital grants as well as part of the investments and expenditure of HACOM financed from the raised funds from 2013 transferred in 2014 and not financed from regular revenues in 2014. HACOM's total investments for 2014 amount to slightly over 13 million kuna and are at the level of investments from 2013. The surplus of the funds collected in 2015 amounts to slightly more than 40 million kuna, and these funds were primarily used in 2015 to support the development of broadband in rural and less developed areas. In accordance with the applicable legal provisions, HAKK has charged around 650 million kuna of revenue in 2014 in favour of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, on the basis of the payment of fees for the right to use... spectrum, address and numbers, and fees for powers and licences. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The collection process was difficult due to numerous pre-banking deals between stakeholders on the electronic communications market, and during 2014, a total of 68 executive procedures worth around 700 thousand kunas were launched, some more than 600 thousand kunas were charged. As regards the activities in the markets that HACOM regulates, I would point out that HACOM continued its work in 2014 to achieve regulatory objectives and principles on electronic communications markets, postal services and since mid-2014 rail services. The objectives and principles include the protection of competition, the protection of users of services, and effective management of limited national natural resources, such as frequency spectrum and address number space. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on technical and technical assistance and other technical assistance in the field of technical assistance and Emphasis in the work of Hakom has been placed on promoting effective investment, innovation with the provision of competition and respect for the principle of non-discrimination, promoting regulatory predictability, preventing discrimination in the treatment of operators, ensuring a high level of consumer protection and effectively managing unlimited national natural resources. A special emphasis has been placed on developing broadband Internet access and increasing investment in infrastructure and new technologies in the electronic communications market as a consistent application of the Law on Postage Services and the Law on Regulation of the Railway Markets in order to speedily and fully... of these markets as part of the EU Single Market. On the market for electronic communications in 2014 the basic collection of all operators of €11 billion 333 million and investment of around €1.9 billion, which is about 6% in revenues compared to 2013 and as much as 22% compared to investments in 2013. The cause, i.e. the cause of the further decline of the total income of this market, is higher. In the opinion of HACOM based on a similar example in the world, the key causes of the decline in total income are, above all, increased competition on the market where the users of services now use much more than before and pay a lower amount because the unit price of services has decreased. In addition, the cause lies also in the country's recession and in the environment, as well as the years-long savings of operators in terms of investment and innovation in the network. The electronic communications market was ready and fully ready for Croatia's entry into the EU, but the operator's income in the Republic of Croatia also fell due to the automatic application of lower roaming prices and wholesale prices regulated at EU level and whose negative impact was first seen throughout the year in 2014. Also, users are increasingly using free internet-based communications services such as Skype, Viber, WhatsApp, as well as other similar services, thus reducing income from classical services such as public voice service, SMS or MMS. Furthermore, in 2014 negative indicators in the area of operator income also contributed extremely to pre-profit settlements, some of the operators of the network of fixed communications as well as multiple charges for the use of frequencies that in 2014 had to be paid by mobile communications operators. Despite all the difficulties in business during 2014 no operator has stopped working. The jobs of the vast majority of employees in the sector were saved and the market remained stable as a whole with very high protection for end-users. The fact is that the market for electronic communications in the Republic of Croatia during 2014 marked the further development of broadband services and the increase of revenues from Internet access, which is only a confirmation of the above thesis. In fact, revenues from internet access services increased by about 28% compared to 2013, while the share in the total revenues of the electronic communications market increased from about 21% to more than 28%. However, due to this reason, this growth was not sufficient to compensate for the decline in revenue from other services. What encourages the increase in the interest of innovation operators, i.e. for the implementation of new technologies, in 2014 has led to a series of pilot projects that examined the possibilities of these technologies. Furthermore, mobile communications operators have also purchased an additional spectrum of radio spectrum for the need for greater capacity, which, apart from creating a precondition for growth, has also brought new substantial revenues to the state budget. I would point out that only from the digital dividend of the state budget is rich in over a billion kuna. According to the density of broadband internet connections through a network of immovable communications by the Republic of Croatia, it belongs to a group of less developed countries compared to the long EU member states, and according to the density of connections in mobile communications networks in a group of developed countries. Regardless of the increase in the number of users, there is room for even stronger growth in this segment, especially in the area of the light source network. That growth in the Republic of Croatia is necessary among other things because of the danger of deepening the digital gap between the Republic of Croatia and the developed EU member states. In the Republic of Croatia, significant regional imbalances in number and density of broadband internet access connections in a network of immovable communications are present and this fact is currently a greater challenge than increasing the density of connections at national level. In 2014, regional imbalances were somewhat facilitated by investments in rural areas and islands through HACOM's support programme as well as regulatory measures and the assignment of digital dividends and the introduction of LTE technology into mobile communications networks. HACOM's programme for the development of broadband systems in rural areas, i.e. HACOM's Internet development programme and broadband Internet access in areas of special state concern, mountain-mounted areas and islands has also been included in the implementation strategy for the development of broadband access in the Republic of Croatia for the period from 2014 to 2015. The aim and purpose of the support is to balance regional development, bring together target groups such as school, health and public institutions, on a network of broadband Internet access, and introduce applications and services that dynamicise the economy and improve the quality of life in those areas. HAKOM was part of the funding from the broadband development programme, which was intended for public procurement to develop broadband Internet access in the areas of Southeast Slavonia, etc. The periphery affected by the catastrophic floods in May 2014. By the end of 2014, electronic communications infrastructure has been restored, a significantly improved broadband Internet access has been developed and some of the E applications that have been first applied in this area as part of pilot projects with end-user equipment donated. During 2014, there was a slight increase in broadband internet access connections through networks of continuous communications with a significant increase in data traffic. The number of such connections in mobile communications networks has decreased statistically above all because foreign tourists use the benefits of low EU roaming prices and no longer buy Croatian operators' cards in so many numbers. Another reason is that in the Republic of Croatia today 4 out of 5 end-users in mobile communications networks have a smartphone, smartphone and tariffs that include significant data traffic, so they are becoming less and less in need of a special connection for broadband Internet access in fixed communications networks. From the positive indicators on the market, it is worth singleing out a significant increase in the users of the package services, over 20% as well as an increase in the share of other operators compared to.../The speaker has moved away from the microphone./... Internet access through the network of immovable communications. The share of TELE2 as at least three mobile communications operators has brought 20% of the market closer and has increased revenue from network and water rentals by about 10%, which is all the confirmations of the HACOM competition and the correct regulatory decisions. The overall digitalisation of TV content transmission has led to the growth of the TV broadcasting market with the payment of fees. So at the end of 2014, almost half of the households in the Republic of Croatia used a TV transmission service with the payment of compensation to one of the operators. This shows that, regardless of the reduced purchasing power and the fact that they already pay one TV fee to HRT, citizens are willing to pay additional TV content. Although communication between machines as part of the Internet is an area at the initial stage of significant growth, which is estimated to include up to 10 billion devices around the world by 2020, HACOM has already set the right numbering plan for these services. Of the new services, special attention is given in the preparation of the regulatory framework for cloud computing as one of the fastest growing branches in today's world of information communication technology. A large part of the spectrum control business once again referred to the measurement of radio spectrum belonging to the Republic of Croatia, which is unauthorized by Italy not only in the area of Istria but in the entire coastal area of the Republic of Croatia. During 2014, extensive measurements were carried out across the coast and islands aimed at monitoring and identifying interference from Italy. The measures resulted in the sending of new 669 international applications to the Italian administration and Italy did not remove or resolve any of these interferences reported by the body 2014. HAKOM addressed both the European Commission and the ITU International Telecommunications Community independently and in collaboration with the relevant Croatian ministries. The first concrete results of removing interference from Italy can be expected in half of 2016 as a new frequency plan in Italy takes effect on 30 April of this year and this is due to direct pressure from the Republic of Croatia. Control... the spectrum also included measuring the size of electromagnetic fields in order to protect human health from their action in areas of increased sensitivity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The results of the measurement were regularly checked by legal entities authorised to carry out the measurement of electromagnetic radiation. During 2014, a new movable-control unit was built and released in the south of Dalmatia and land was purchased in Split for the construction of a new control measuring centre. Upgrades, introduction of new functionality and regular maintenance of the transfer of numbers base, management of an addressable number of spaces, inspection of electronic communications networks and services and radio and telecommunications terminal equipment are also some of the activities in the responsibility of HACOM which contributed to the successful development of the market in 2014. In 2014, HACOM regulatory measures had an emphasis on the determination of wholesale conditions in line with the interests of the Republic of Croatia market and on the further development of competition. All were without a problem approved by the European Commission and successfully applied on our market, which is a great success and another confirmation that the Republic of Croatia has been excellently prepared in this part to enter the European Union's single market. Other activities of HACOM during 2014 need to be set aside between the other issue of true travel certificates, previous opinions on spatial planning documents and specific conditions of construction and certification of major projects, contributing to the construction of the base and electronic communication infrastructure in this area. In cooperation with operators and local and regional self-government units, projects are being prepared for the construction, access and use of electronic communications infrastructure and networks, which will directly contribute to faster and better use of funds from European funds and public-private partnerships projects. When we talk about the postal services market, we would point out that complete liberalisation of the market has been reversed by a multi-annual decline in total income on the postal services market and the emergence of new postal service providers has enriched the supply of new postal services. With the reduction in the prices of certain segments of postal services, there has been an increase in the number of packages and value added services with the same decline in traditional postal services, which continues in the Republic of Croatia to be present in the European Union and the developed countries of the world. In 2014, postal service providers presented total revenues of €1 billion and €430 million, which is slightly more than in 2013 and in 2014 the number of services was about 1% higher than in 2013. Out of the total number of services on the market, Croatia's post office decreased its share by about 1% in 2014 to something below 70%. Meanwhile, that stake rose to about 82%. In the structure of all the postal services delivered, the universal postal service accounted for approximately 53% of all services, other postal services about 26% and replacement postal services about 21%. The main reasons for the increase in total revenue and the number of services are the increased share of value added services and the development of e-commerce involving parcel delivery. In late 2014, 21 postal services providers who provided postal services were registered in the Republic of Croatia on the basis of the application submitted. The Croatian Post Office is the sole provider of the universal postal service and the right and obligation to manage the universal service throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia has been established by the Post Office Act for 15 years. The most important regulatory activities should be set aside accounting separation with the revision of the regulatory report and... the Croatian Post model and the calculation of the net cost of the universal service provider. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This activity was very important given that a sustainable universal service is one of the main preconditions for increasing the quality of life in rural areas of the Republic of Croatia. The operation of HACOM on the postal service market was proactive by implementing measures to preserve the universal service and organise round tables with all market stakeholders, and correctly through the conduct of inspection controls, which is, in fact, aimed at regulating a fully open market with the aim of creating equal conditions for all providers, and particularly at the sustainable provision of universal service. The emphasis on universal service is on quality, price acceptability and availability so that all users have the same right and the possibility to use this basic postal service for which the Republic of Croatia guarantees continuous service throughout its territory. Taking into account the importance of the work of postal offices for quality of life in rural areas, Croatian post office has kept more than 300 post offices from law and regulation of the prescribed minimum. Thus, at the end of 2014, there were 1016 offices, only two less than at the end of 2013. This also practically stopped the closure of postal offices in the Republic of Croatia. With the entry into force of the Law on the Regulation of the Market in Railway Services, the amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications, HAKOM took over half of 2014 as well as to the rail market and began to proactively and correctly take regulatory measures in order to promote competition and the interest of rail users. Intermediately between infrastructure manager, HZ Infrastructure and transporter, as well as service operator, above all, and in connection with network reports. The liberalisation of the freight transport market has also led to new carriers, but competition has neither led to an increase in the quantity of goods transported in 2014 nor an increase in the use of rail services, and no increase in the competitiveness of rail transport has been observed compared to other types of transport of goods. This Decision shall HZ infrastructure has shown revenue totalling around 155 million kuna, a 24% drop compared to the year before. The passenger transport shall record a further reduction in the number of passengers transported, and the reasons for this lie among other things in a number of railways and the age of the rolling stock. However, there are also positive indicators, as well as the restoration and modernisation of railway lines during 2014 is invested close to a billion kuna. A positive sign is an increase in the average speed of transport, and the length of railway lines at which it is driven at speeds greater than 100 km per hour. This should also be accompanied by an increase in competition in the section of the rail market relating to freight transport as well as HACOM's efforts to remove obstacles to access service railways. In late 2014, there were 27 service facilities operators, 1 passenger carrier and 4 cargo carriers. In 2015, a new one was expected, and in the meantime new freight carriers came in so that they totaled 6. Then the new HZ passenger transport fleet and further improving rail infrastructure are further indications of improvement of the rail market. Special emphasis in HACOM's work is given to ensure a high level of protection of end-user services in their relations with operators, service providers and carriers, and to enable the availability of a simple and accessible process to resolve user complaints. When we talk about protecting users of electronic communications services in 2014. HAKOM paid great attention to preventive action, instructions and advice to end-users to protect, avoid problems, and create assumptions for open and simple communication with users. In most cases, users refer to further treatment, user registration for the initiation of the dispute settlement procedure before HACOM via an internet application e-application, and registered users have the possibility to monitor the status of the complaint and obtain additional information as well as to send the supplement and documentation through that application. Moreover, HACOM continued to implement a software sigulator called the cost-evaluator. The User Simulator provides the necessary information on the prices of public communications services as well as their changes without delay in relation to the offer on the market. In order to achieve a high level of consumer protection, HACOM has improved the user tool for measuring the speeds of Internet access, etc. a hecometer, and this tool serves as a proof of failure to fulfil the operator's contractual obligations in cases of too low internet access speeds. Analysing the total number of complaints received, enquiries, complaints or requests to resolve end-user disputes in 2014 may conclude that users are increasingly aware of the possibility of achieving their rights in an objective way by resolving the dispute before HACOM. The reduction in the trend in the number of disputes launched in 2014 was 1350, for the expenditure of 2013 when nearly 1700 showed that operators had adopted a new regulatory framework and had literally applied the provisions of the new Regulations adopted by HACOM. There has been some increase in the ratio of HACOM's negative decisions to users who have opened the HACOM dispute compared to previous years, and the increase is better co-operation and communication of HACOM with operators. This is an indication that operators comply with the laws, regulations, HACOM’s instructions or that in disputes that users start before HACOM operators in previous stages of the complaint, they are increasingly making the right decisions. The largest number of complaints from postal service users were resolved by the postal service providers themselves, where the Croatian Post Office stands out with its effectiveness. HAKOM received only 58 requests, and 60 disputes were resolved in 2014. On the basis of the opinion of the Commission for the Protection of the Rights of Consumers of Services, only 13 disputes were adopted or partially adopted, and no administrative dispute was initiated against HACOM's decisions in 2014. On the basis of the provisions of the Law on the regulation of the market in rail services, HACOM has since mid-2014 assumed responsibility for the protection of passenger rights and the resolution of passengers' objections against the decisions of railway undertakings. However, no such request has been received by the end of 2014. As of 1 January 2015, the complaints addressed to the railway undertaking were mainly related to the work of staff, timetables and train delays, and since 1 January 2015, the provisions of the Law on inspection supervision in the area of passenger rights were subject to the first objections and the possible disputes of HAKOM started to be settled on the basis of the opinion of the Committee for the Protection of the Rights of Passengers, Services at HACOM. HACOM has stepped up its activities in promoting child protection when using the Internet and electronic communications services. Special attention shall be given to the promotion of parental responsibility and the regulation of the obligations of electronic communications network operators to which parents may request their operator to set up a ban on content that is inappropriate to children, restrictions on the use of services with a special tariff and restrictions on consumption. When it comes to children, the operator is asking for socially responsible behavior that should be above what is legally prescribed. In 2014, HAKOM continued to participate in the advisory mechanism of persons with disabilities, operators and HAKOM, and in addition to regular activities, HAKOM financed the production of three applications for persons with disabilities completed in 2014. They are a personal therapist, the adjustment of the website of the Croatian Institute of Public Health for people with disabilities, and internet advertising for people with disabilities. There are developing applications E physical therapy in the house E home him and E diagnostics and support for children with communication difficulties. In the framework of the international cooperation, HACOM actively participated in the work of the European Commission's international working groups, and then in the work of the working groups in the field of electronic communications markets, postal and rail services, and the excellence of the work and importance of HACOM were confirmed by calls for participation at several important regional and world conferences where HACOM experts held a lecture. Among other things, agreements on co-operation with the Ministry of South Korea and with a regulatory body from Turkey have been signed. As part of domestic co-operation, there is a very good co-operation with all ministries, state administration bodies, regional and local self-government units as well as with other regulatory authorities and state agencies. HACOM experts represented the Republic of Croatia at the number of international meetings and meetings and took part in the development of strategic and operational documents brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and those related to the use of European funds. In addition, cooperation with the universities of the University of Zagreb, Split and Osijek should be highlighted. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. ...and more software applications with a focus on improving business processes, using Internet-oriented technologies. In addition to applications aimed at external users, HACOM has accelerated internal processes by introducing new information solutions and platforms. The tools introduced enable effective cooperation in the day-to-day processes of regulators as well as communication with end-users, so employees and users quickly accept them. The most important programmes aimed at increasing the organisational, individual and joint regulatory capacity were interdisciplinary postgraduate studies of the regulation of the electronic communications market at the University of Zagreb, the project The view of the future in collaboration with the schools from Zagreb, Split and Osijek, and the development of foreign languages in particular English. The ISO9001 quality management system is constantly upgraded as confirmed by the other supervision by the certification house. At the end of 2014, HACOM was employed by 174 workers, noting that, due to its accession with the Railway Market Regulation Agency, the number of workers was significantly higher over the year. Despite the attachment... HAKOM did not achieve a total increase in workers at the end of the year, and it would particularly point out that the high and higher technical equipment has about 83% of workers who are dominated by electrical engineering engineers who make up about a third of the employees, then economists who make up a quarter of the employees, and after that, lawyers and traffic engineers. More than 60% of employees are under 40 years old and the average working experience is over 10 years old. By birth structure, the relationship is almost identical. Dear ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention and during the debate and in my closing statement, I will be happy to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1802	We thank Mr. Lucic. Let's go, let's move on to the debate. First presentation on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, distinguished representative Josip Boris. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1803	Thank you very much, Vice President. This report was submitted in accordance with the law to the procedure and was already on the agenda for the past 7 months last year. Reading this report is obvious that we are becoming more and more nations of the Internet or more popular nation of surfers who are increasingly communicating with the cell phone and are increasingly watching television. Although we are achieving increasing speeds in the transmission of information and data, it seems to me that as a person, we are becoming more and more alone and less involved in society. The basic question that arises is can we spend more time not looking at what's new on the portals, can we calmly endure the fact that we've forgotten our cell phone somewhere that day or that we may have lost it? Have we become addicted to electronic apparatus and communication over the years, and have we become an extremely consumer society in this segment? Therefore, this report is very grateful for a parliamentary debate in the role of the agency in the regulation of the electronic communications post market and since 2014 as we have heard the regulation of the rail services market. The Network Activities Agency described its own role in the regulation of three basic areas of electronic communications, postal and rail transport. The previous discussions in the Croatian Parliament on this topic have given us some effect so that today we have a summarised statistical clearer and reasoned act of the agency in our powers. The questions that are imposed and not knowing what it has brought in 2015 in this area may interest us. Did the agency justify its own existence? The second question, did the accession of the Railway Market Regulatory Agency to HACOM make it impossible and difficult for the newly established agency to do its jobs? Is the newly created agency financially capable of operating independently from its own income? And perhaps the most important question has the agency taken advantage of the opportunities available to it to influence market development, to effectively protect the interests of consumers, consumers and of course the interests of the Republic of Croatia in all areas? In order to answer these questions, I will first look at several important statistics across all areas. The area of electronic communications, in 2014 the revenue of 11 billion and 333 million kuna was achieved in that market and investment of 1 billion and 879 million kuna, which is a fall of 6 and 22%, respectively, compared to the previous year. Compared to 2009, operators earn much less. 2009 is 15.5 billion, 2013. 13 billion and 300, and 2014 11 billion and 333 million kuna. I said 1 billion and 879 million kuna investments, the number of users in mobile networks 2011 was 5 million and 115 thousand, the number of users in mobile networks 2015. 4 million and 461 thousand or almost 650 thousand let's say connections or cell phones less. Teleoper's revenues in mobile networks fell from 6 billion to 900 in 2011 to 4 billion and 900 in 2015 almost 2 billion less. When we talk about the operator's stakes, certainly the biggest share still has HT with 46.8%, VIP 35.17 and TELE 18%. Roaming 13 million foreigners, the tourist spent 279 million minutes in 2014 or on average every stranger somewhere 21 minutes, income was 201 million kuna. While 2011 that revenue was 201 million kuna while in 2011, the revenue amounted to €354 million and was much less discussed. 4 million Croatian citizens spent roaming in 2014. 75 million minutes and paid 143 million kuna for it. Four years earlier, as many as 354 million kunas were paid in less than a minute. And perhaps the most important data, data traffic. 2011 178 million gigabytes, 2014. 362 million gigabytes almost doubled in fixed nets, and in mobile networks with 3 million and 552 million gigabytes in 2011 to 22 million and 270 million gigabytes in 2014 or 6 times more spent data. The revenues only increased in that segment from 2011 to 2 billion and 100 million to 3 billion and 200 million kuna in 2014 or almost 1.1 billion more. So while Croatian citizens have fewer and fewer phones somewhere around 1.2 per capita, while more conversation is being made and more and more teleoperate revenues are falling from year to year, they invest at 2 billion kuna per year. The only real step and benefits of Croatian citizens, but also foreigners, we think of tourists for the past 4 years, is simply roaming and applying a regulation of the European Union that started in 2014. The battle on the teleoperate market is huge and more citizens are turning to subscription relations. The data on the development and density of broadband Internet access through the immovable network shows that we haven't moved much from the bottom of the scale. We are in place 25 of the 28 Member States of the European Union. In mobile networks, the situation is much better and we are in 10th place and above the European Union average. In the segment of telephone services in the immovable network, national operators recorded a fall in revenues in 2014. In the last six years since 2008, up until last year, revenues have dropped from 4.6 billion, we are talking about fixed networks to 2 billion and 230 million kuna, which represents a decline in the value of this part of the market by about 50%. According to the 2014 TV service, the TV service recorded a 9.7% growth in revenues, amounting to 597 million kuna. In the part of the rent network and the water supply, revenues are on the decline compared to 2011. There's one little mistake, the graph says one thing, the text says something else on page 27. When we talk about electronic infrastructure communication, let's see what we have in the Republic of Croatia. Cable channeling route 21 thousand and 800km, cable track in the country 26 thousand and 300km. The cross-country electronic communications network path... Thousands of miles. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The pillars of the ground-based electronic communications network 210 thousand. When we talk about removing electronic municipal infrastructure and determining the infrastructure operator and the amount of compensation for the use of the property on which electronic communications infrastructure is placed and other related management levels of 50% of the performance leaves the impression of ineffectiveness and agency and operator. The report is very precise in the section on base stations, interferences and measures taken by HACOM. In particular, we must list the major problems facing many citizens and the numerous demands of citizens to remove base stations, however, it is obvious that this still does not occur. There is a great space for progress in the area of mobile and fixed networks and there is a task of HACOM, operators and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to make further moves because opportunities and trends are as clear as current shortcomings. And a level of 2 billion kuna and even many years of investment can make it better especially when we talk about the rural area of the Republic of Croatia and the islands. Strong competition brings down income to operators and more favourable tariffs for users, network management, construction and legalisation of relations in part of electronic infrastructure is a space for progress in the next period. Investments of 2 billion compared to revenues of 11 billion and 300 show that there is a legitimate space for even greater investments by operators. When we talk about the postal services market, the role and importance of postal services, i.e. postal services markets on the global communications market, has changed significantly over the past period. However, postal services remain a very important factor affecting economic development. As a result of the general economic crisis in the Republic of Croatia, the positive effects of liberalisation on certain trends and market development are somewhat less pronounced than in the European Union, which does not mean that they are not there. Also, classical postal services are increasingly under pressure from other, more modern means of communication, which also affects the growth and development of the market. The liberalisation enabled dynamic changes in the postal services market, i.e. changes that occurred in the provision of postal services by the provider. Thus, at the end of 2014, 21 postal service providers were 21, which is 2 less than at the end of 2013. Five existing donors stopped working and three new donors were reported. The universal service in the Republic of Croatia is performed by Croatian Post Office as the only provider who has obtained this right in accordance with the amendments to the postal service laws and for a period of 15 years. At the end of 2014, 9 000 and 454 workers were employed in the postal service market by the service provider. The postal services market in 2014 provided 342 million services and Croatian mail remains the largest provider with 239 million services and 70, slightly more than 70% share. In the overall achievement of the universal service is the highest with approximately 53%. They all earned about a billion and 430 million kuna in 2014. When we talk about substituting services, they were provided by 6 donors who provided about 70 million services with revenue of HRK 136 million and other services that seem to be somehow the least, which the council president also spoke of, show that there is a large space when we talk about the concept of e-commerce that needs to be further developed because these revenues are somehow the most recent, they amounted to 575 million kuna. When we talk about the Law on postal services and the obligation to provide universal service, there is a net cost which is an unfair financial burden for the universal service provider. It is legally prescribed that some other sources should make up for it. The Croatian Post Office calculated for 2013 that this cost is 149 million kuna and the independent auditor 94 million kuna or 54 million kuna is less. Following this, HAKOM also issued a decision which was required to collect 94 million kuna in 2014 to pay the universal service provider. Unfortunately, most of it has been paid from the state budget. When we talk about the quality of the universal service, that's the part that we may be interested in sometimes, about sending the written mails that we send today, and it comes to us instead of two days in eight or ten days. HAKOM states that he has conducted inspection controls and that the part is in some way respected and that it is more or less under control with minor problems in international traffic, and there were around 30574 complaints last 2014 somewhere. When we talk about the rail market, it is clear that amendments to the law by the former agency have been attached to HACOM and that HACOM has done its basic tasks, which is to mediate between infrastructure manager and carrier, as well as service operator, in particular with regard to the network report. We can see that negative things are happening also in the area of rail transport, because given what we have from infrastructure, the fact is that compared to 2011, the number of kilometers of railways on which the highest permitted train speed was increased, but overall those average commercial speeds of passenger and freight trains were reduced. They carry out for passenger trains for 46 km and for freight only 20 km/h. The number of passengers and cargo being transported has been dropping steadily since 2011. When we talk about the protection of users objecting to how we heard they get rid of each other in two degrees. It's in front of the agency. There were a lot of these objections. I think that's where HACOM handles what he can do with the number of workers, but also with a large number of complaints. And that part that might be the most important part about the financial part. This showed expenditure planned in the amount of 119 million 822 thousand kuna. Incomes are relatively small. HACOM explains this by investing in municipal infrastructure, i.e. in the development of a broadband internet. But in all, perhaps the most important part of the one relating to the revenues of the state budget for 2014 was around 647 million kuna. And finally answer these questions. Did the agency justify its own existence? I think it's also quite clear that this shows the need for an agency like this to exist. Whether the accession of this other agency to HACOM made it impossible for the newly established agency to carry out all the jobs is not. And the total expenditure of 750,000 kuna for the cost of that part shows that by joining agencies, you can save money. It's a good guideline for this government to get into the accession of many agencies and institutions as soon as possible. Because only on that part of the savings was about a million and 800 thousand kuna on the level of the year. Whether the newly created agency was financially able to function independently from its own income has shown that, although it has now begun to spend its substance that they had then on bank accounts. But they say, we invest in municipal infrastructure and did it take advantage of its opportunities to protect us as users and, above all, the interests of the Republic of Croatia. We think that there is room for improvement, more effective controls that we can determine in the following reports that will come to the Croatian Parliament. And I think that might be the most important task you'll have to do. We, as a club of HDZ, will accept this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1804	Thank you very much. Now it's on behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative of Sinisha Hajdas Doncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1805	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, we are not talking about Max Weber and alienation and attachment, but we will actually concentrate on the report by HACOM or Croatian Network Services Agency. I would have singled out three or four things that marked HACOM's work in 2014. First of all, it is the assistance of HACOM in the floods in Celferia, where through the pilot project HACOM has supplied applications, as well as the broadband internet of end-users. So both health homes and schools and mail, and that's exactly one example of good intervention, so one public part of this public agency in an elementary accident. The second thing that's good is that the government brought together two agencies in 2014. It is an agency that regulated rail transport and HACOM and I hope, therefore, that the Croatian Government will continue, because there is a space for merger and HERA, as well as a media agency on the principle of Spain or Germany. So that there is a multi-disciplinary agency which, therefore, through the Joint Council and certain professional services performs some other tasks. So the role of HACOM is not just about 700 million kunas. Digital dividends, i.e. The use of Croatian space or Croatian sky by telecommunications operators, which is the direct income of the state budget, which then enables the financing of various budget items or budget items to say expenditure. It will also need to be taken into account this year that one part of this digital dividend is returned for the development of a broadband internet, as the European Commission has accepted the development I will say infrastructure networks to the end-user. So, the last email, the last mile. It remains to be accepted by the Commission as well as the development of a aggregate or aggregate network, i.e. the total network of broadband internet. Thus Croatia, there is HACOM and some emei leaves the possibility of actually using up to 85% to co-finance the development of the broadband internet and let's call it only basic infrastructures in most areas of Croatia where there are no commercial interests, these are actually all areas other than areas that cover large cities. I would like to point out here that there were 27 users at the end of 2014. provider or provider of postal services and that HACOM has actually well regulated the entire market where Croatia's post office as a national post office plays a dominant role i.e. has the possibility to provide universal service or some PSO and that the trend of closing of postal offices has actually been stopped, especially in rural areas. And here I would point out that someone has to pay for it, and for that they have to pay for the state. So it can't pay HAKOM, it can't be paid by any operators or post office but it should be paid by the state. So the state is responsible to ensure, in the part of the development of its postal network, that some, say, islands or some predominantly rural areas or areas which do not have enough population to have postal offices and also universal service which is then substituted by the state provider, and the provider at this point is Croatia's post office. As far as the rail market is concerned, it is still in the bandages, it is young, so there are 3 or 4 operators who, except HZ CARGO, requested entry into the Croatian market so that there was no need for regulation here yet. What I am proud of as a citizen of the Republic of Croatia is HACOM, and I may know more about participation in the European Council that HACOM has become a European respectable regulatory agency through BEREC and through AT and SPT. So, colleagues from HACOM, so HACOM professional services are sitting on these bodies, I will say very well they are talking specifically to the queen of telecommunications and some Croatian and Lithuanian ideas have actually come to life as the official views of the European Commission, especially those concerning roaming in the Republic of Croatia. So let me say that no longer the SDP club will support this HACOM report because I think the quality of the regulation work is done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1806	Thank you. The next debate should be the HRID Representatives' Club, is MP Irena Petričevnin Vuksanovic respected in the assembly? I don't see her. If he didn't, then he's losing his right to argue. We're going to the next debate. On behalf of the HSLS-BUZ Club, distinguished representative Dario Hrebak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1807	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. It is commendable to hear a constructive discussion about the agency, but the citizens give us confidence and ask us to talk about what may not have been so good and there are many things that I have found by studying this report and which I do not think was good at working on that agency for the past period. HACOM as a network activity regulatory agency regulates a market where over 13 billion kunas of traffic are implemented annually as we have heard from my predecessors. And the same agency is based on the Law on Electronic Communications, the Law on Postage Services, the Law on Regulation of the Railway Markets and the Work Programme for 2016 and the Financial Plan for me personally think that the mildly said copy paste is especially because it is easy to check available plans for 2012, 2013 and 2014, and we see that there has not been much change in this matter. It is in line with the above, we believe that, unfortunately, in the mandate of this council, the labour market, the market for telecommunications services, did not function. In fact, we believe that it has gone backwards, and that that is how it is said that all alternative telecom operators have failed, ended up in a pre-demand settlement by hoarding huge losses to eventually end up again with the same operators who, back in the past several years, had a monopoly or duopol in telecommunications services. In its 2014 report, only the Council acknowledges that there has been a decline in transport on the telecom market over 28% and that all investments in new technologies have been stopped and that the telecom market in the Republic of Croatia is unfortunately one of the most underdeveloped in the EU. Investments in fixed and mobile networks, no development of new services, no development of broadband internet access, and only for the last year have shyly appeared investments in wireless, broadband Internet in networks of the fourth generation so-called. LTE generations. What I think is particularly important for the prominent and I believe that we have all witnessed for the past few years, so in the area of radio communication most citizens have been protesting for a number of years for constant interference and interference with the reception of radio and television programs coming from neighbouring countries, so we know where Italy is primarily from where the people of Istria, Kvarner, Dalmatian islands and others cannot monitor Croatian radio and television stations. So, I'd like to hear what HACOM has done to protect national wealth and the radio spectrum is we all know the national wealth of the Republic of Croatia that turns billions of kunas of traffic. So this question would like to be particularly pointed out in the answer, in the final address regarding the report. It is also important to stress and I believe that citizens are not aware that the agency has spent more than 500 million kuna on its work over the last four years. Of which, it is the most isolated for employees' items of over 180 million kuna because in the agency, over 170 employees are working as regulators, which we also heard from my predecessors. There are 80 employees working for a comparison in a similar agency in Slovenia, and in Austria, which generates over 15 billion euros in services and has one of the most developed telecom markets for only 145 employees. Some 2 billion euros are invested in the development of new technologies-based infrastructure in Austria each year. I am aware that Austria is still far from us, however, it should also not be ignored that the Republic of Croatia deserves a better attitude towards modern new technologies. Although the agency boasts that it has the most professional people who can regulate the communication services market, the agency spent 20 million kuna on intellectual services this 4 years, and to professional training nearly 15 million kunas, although there is a sufficient number of professionals on the market who have invested themselves in their own education and that they come from the telecom industry. On capital donations in these 4 years, without clear criteria, more than 100 million kunas have been distributed without ever getting the information that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have received back. Another reason why we should consider reducing all parafiscal burdens and so on in these electronic communications is the total dispensation of citizens. HAKOM also took unnecessary ones for us and expensive offices where each employee has more than 40 square meters at their disposal that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have paid more than 40 million kuna in the last 4 years. We are all aware that HACOM has filled the pages of black chronicles with a series of affairs that best depicts why our situation is exactly as I did in my previous part of the exhibition. I'll just mention some. Non-transparent rental of business space in the current location for more than 20 euros per square cent, although there is a decision by the government that the rent of space cannot go more than 12 euros per square. We all got the same letter from one of the council members who wrote to all the MPs about how to work and manage the agency. So, as a conclusion, I could list a few more things, but I haven't touched any of the problems with the postal services, and the ones in the railways that I don't even speak. And I think some of my colleagues have mentioned that as well. From this debate we can only conclude that HSLS cannot support such a report and that we are against even though despite any efforts against such a report and we will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1808	Furthermore, a distinguished representative, Darko Paric, appeared for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1809	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In fact, I don't get it, your whole exposure was quite a bit of a flat-rate conversation with numbers, data search, and we don't even know that you've ever looked for data. On the other hand, you attack the agency, as it is said, reduced revenues from telecom operators while citizens are using more of their services. Well, that's exactly the function of the agency. Telekom operators are private operators who earn money from the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and HACOM is an independent regulatory agency whose task is precisely for us as citizens of the Republic of Croatia to get as many services for as little money as possible from the same telecom operators. Also a question of parafiscal abuses, I would just remind you that in this area we are not talking about parafiscal impositions especially because a large part of the money that HACOM takes from telecom operators directly through public procurement, construction of shipbuilding infrastructure, construction of applications and everything in our rural and mountainous areas directly returns to Croatia and to the same citizens. So some of your weights would tell me you're just not holding water, but okay, you have the right to do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1810	Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Hrebac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1811	Thank you very much. The esteemed colleague figures can always be commented on in one way or another, it is not disputed. I'd rather you replicated me in my allegations regarding some other things I mentioned, the type of renting business space, for example, or asphyxiation so in the area of Dalmatia and entering the space of other states with a signal. So, as far as the figures are concerned, I'm not going to engage in commenting because it's a subjective impression that some MP thinks they really are a real picture of the situation. I personally and commended in the first part of a certain thing that HAKOM did, but I do not think it is an obligation to just praise but also to look in reports of those things that were not good to be corrected in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1812	Thank you very much. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Appreciative Representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1813	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here we see that in this report very little talk about base stations that are being set up wherever anyone comes to mind in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia, we see that in the whole area people are protesting and rightly protesting because our legal regulations suit and enables teleopers to place these base stations in any place and in any way without any permission of construction, without the consent of local self-government, without the consent of the neighbours. So they just need to ask HACOM's permission. Of course, it's very important to talk about this subject because we have to put into the heart of all human health. And we know that we have a number of research that I will now cite the facts of this problem that threatens health, mostly children and so on to all the population around where the base stations are being placed. Nowhere in the EU, base stations are set up as in Croatia in such a simple way and nowhere is legally suitable for teleopers, in this case we know that our market is open and that technology needs to be developed but that it needs to be preserved, to protect the health of all citizens. So here's some facts I'm going to give you and the requirements that are needed when changing cell cell phones that are essentially done by experts through associations that are fighting to protect against electromagnetic radiation. First of all, in terms of themselves, the setting up of base stations The World Association of Mobile Operators in which so far is given a review of the legislation in certain countries Croatia is the only country in Europe with antenna pillars on the ground, and the antennas on the roofs are placed without construction permits and local permits. The Regulation on simple and other buildings and works of the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning has enabled antennas to set exclusively according to the interests of teleoperators, which is contrary to the point of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. So HACOM is not only interested in being there but also to warn about the European Union's legislation and to monitor how it is in countries where these teleopers come from and how they behave. So these antennae columns and antennas on the roofs should be thrown out of the Simple Buildings Regulation because the absurdity of the balcony on the building in its apartment requires the consent of the neighbours and for such facilities no requirement or consent is required which is the exception in Europe. According to the same study, Croatia is one of only four countries in Europe with Romania, Slovakia and Portugal, in which there is no obligation to public debate and even informing local communities about mobile cell base locations. Public debate is also a legal obligation in neighbouring countries outside the European Union to example Montenegro and Serbia as opposed to others in Europe, so our citizens have no potential to influence the sites of antenna pillars either directly or indirectly through the authorities of local self-government. So we here in Parliament need to initiate the procedure of course with the help of the Government because so far there has been no will, to launch, to commit to the movement, to communicate and consult teleoperators with the location of base stations with the local community and local self-government, which is in line with resolutions and recommendations in the European Parliament. Also in Croatia there are powerful solutions to construction inspections by the Ministry of Construction on the removal of illegal base stations set up before 2009 while construction permits were still needed. We have this example in Dubrovnik, in an example from Dubrovnik which is in the Croatian Parliament a year ago Minister Mrak Taritas, and is asked a parliamentary question but despite her promise of the disputed base station is still not removed. So it is sought and it is necessary for the Ministry of Construction to be involved in the perspective as it has never been before, and we will ask for urgent action on this final judgment and for all such facilities to be removed as soon as possible. These need to prevent urban spatial plans which are not necessary for base stations from setting up base stations on roofs in the zone of individual industrial construction, of course where the largest number of people live for health protection and for residential purposes,... The entire areas of M, M1, D2, D4 and at school. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In my latest report on the work of the Croatian Parliament, I do not know if you are familiar with HAKOM, but I would like to ask you to pay good attention to this, in the latest report on the work of the Croatian Parliament, to ask the Minister of Health for construction, to see that there is a new Regulation on protection against electromagnetic fields in accordance with the Code with the interested public. The fact is that a regulation that should protect people from potentially harmful electromagnetic radiation as declared by the World Health Organization has not been involved by any doctor. The expert commission consisted mainly of technical science experts, some of whom are working on projects funded by teleoperators. So it takes immediate lifting of the existing regulation and a new return to the previous one, which is a more quality protection of human health. The facts indicating the harmfulness of electromagnetic radiation have been carried out by a number of institutions at global and European level. So we have the World Health Organization, based on the results of two years of extensive research in 14 countries, declared electromagnetic fields a potential carcinogen for humans. Their former status until then was that there was no evidence of harmfulness. The Nobel prized the Nobel Prize for Medicine and Physiology in 2011 issued an official warning that base stations pose a risk to children and pregnant women, that the combined effect of mobiles, wireless phones, base cells and wireless Internet-wide numbers of people in the world, are an increased risk to cancer, neurological and reproductive diseases and threatens normal development. He was an international group of independent scientists who followed all research into the impact of electromagnetic radiation on human health in the report from... In 2014, on the basis of the results of the latest research, it requires that the radiation of mobile phone editing be declared carcinogen for humans. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also 200 of the world's most prominent scientists with more than 2000 thousand reviewed scientific peoples who make an all-2015 request to the UN and WHO, the World Health Organisation for the emergency adoption of stricter standards for the protection of electromagnetic fields and wireless radiation. In January 2015, France passed a law limiting the exposure of electromagnetic radiation to children and young people. The next number of EU countries has recognised electromagnetic hypersensitivity... syndrome as a disease and also taking measures to protect the people who suffer from it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is a very important segment to think about both man and health, it's important to develop technology. However, if it has been proven that within 400m the base station is radiating, then we would have to be here as a legislative body as soon as possible to change it. The most important thing is health and should be managed by the Croatian Regulatory Agency in cooperation with other European countries. I know that this year's budget is down to you, your balance sheet I've seen, maybe you'll explain it differently, and I won't ask you about it, I'm not an expert, but I know that everyday people are protesting what's under their window is a base station without being asked, without protecting them, but it's only in the interest of foreign teleopers. Not only about foreign teleoperators but first, not to go back to the past, but we must remember what our old ones built, we donated this to a foreign telecommunications operator who uses this infrastructure, which charges that infrastructure for its benefit and the largest profit per capita in the EU is among the largest and most numerous in Croatia. In Croatia, so all these... have a large profit, however, they must invest carefully in health, and base stations are also not obliged to pay to local communities either the kuna of municipal contributions or any compensation, but they use it exclusively as they please, where they are willing to be their empire. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is not their empire, this is one country of the Republic of Croatia which is made up of citizens that we must protect primarily and above all health. Because it's inadmissible for base stations to do nothing in hospitals, in kindergartens. I think you, if you're a profession, if you're dealing with it, if you have 100 and some employees, I don't know exactly, that these people should go to the ministries, regardless of what their obligation is to follow these legislations as they behave in the EU, not exclusively to favour a foreign telecommunications operator. I know that the market is open, I know that we are part of the EU, but we must not allow the health of our children and us to be trampled. We need to get into protection, and therefore MOST will soon propose to amend the law and to set up base stations and reduce electromagnetic radiation, and we will have a lot more to talk about. But here's what I'm giving you, especially colleagues, when it's a chance to think about these things positively because what's going on right now and how many people are in Croatia on this issue are being organized, how surprised they are at what's happening to them, so here you go. I don't think there's a city, there's no environment where it doesn't happen and protests and various activities. However, we simply must not give birth. We have to listen to them because there's truth to what they're saying. Electromagnetic radiation, this base cell radiation is health-threatening. If that's what the expert research said, there's no reason why we shouldn't support it, because it's our role to protect the citizens. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1814	Thank you. The right to the replica was requested by distinguished representative Darko Paric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1815	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Namely, dear colleague Bulj, I finally agree with you that there is definitely room to correct the procedure and complete the procedure for setting up the base stations and everything else related to mobile communication. But on the other hand, the way you put it out in this little bit looks like when a mother scares a child that grandmother horns exist around and that it's all horrible together and there's nothing good about it. On the third hand, from what I've heard from you, it turns out that Croatia's the wild west in which anyone thinks anywhere in the base station he does it. But really, the public does, and I have to tell the truth here that it's not like that. There are laws, there are procedures and there's a way someone can do something. We also have a ZEK, and we also have a health ministry coded on permitted electromagnetic radiation, which is as much known to me by the standards that are even sharper than that in the EU. And I think your whole debate is a little bit more crowded than the facts. I will also, not remind you but to say that apart from being beamed by base stations, you've been radiated for many, many decades at the same time by the antennas you're working on reception and television and radio. But in this country, everyone seems to have forgotten about the big repeaters from the big hills that radiate us and we're all talking about base stations. I say again, there's definitely space and space absolutely. And in the end, you're part of what I wanted to tell you myself, and I urge you to propose a law to sharpen measures or whatever. But I don't think it's right in such an absolutely negative way to talk about something that's all around us and what's regulated in Croatia in every way at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1816	Replica response, distinguished representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1817	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I would like to agree with you that you should be careful in your statements, and I would also agree with you if you said that you were at least in one place where people protested when under the window you found the base station next to them without any consent, without the knowledge of local self-government or local self-government and local board or wheel. And it's really one unpleasant thing. And so the permits, so please the telephony that's owned by a foreign operator, it's absurd for me. Now imagine if you came and the end of your apartment, the base station, didn't know local self-government, local self-government, no one knew. But they've been proven, so it's proven, so professional scientific institutions have proven radiation toxicity. Of course, it radiates the cell phone, but that's our choice. But it's no choice for a man from Australia to live in Sinj to invest all his life he worked in Australia and take him under the window in the morning... which he had built his whole life, built a house, homed to win his base station without asking him. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because tomorrow, me or your baby, it's gonna be airing up. So in Croatia, legal telephony is suitable for operators and I guarantee you that, and the Minister of Health knows that several times more electromagnetic radiation is allowed in Croatia, and this has been warned by HUZEZ, the Croatian Association for the Protection of Electromagnetic Emissions, and they wanted to talk about it. There were even supposed to be protests, I don't know where she came from with the minister. All I know is that the level of electromagnetic radiation in Croatia did not decrease, it increased after that rule twice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1818	Individual debates. The word has a distinguished representative Darko Paric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1819	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In this debate, I would just refer to the question of telecommunications and electronic communications. According to the report, the electronic communications market is one of the strongest branches of the Croatian economy, and in modern society it is one of the pillars of development and progress. Today 2016 and already many years behind us, today it is indeed so. The report also says that in 2014 total revenues were 11 billion and 300 million kuna total of all telecom operators in the Republic of Croatia. However, what is a fact, which has already been said here several times that these revenues decrease from year to year. What's a fact is also if you read a little bit and watch this report, if you look at the content of the incomes that telecom operators have, it's still the biggest income from telephone services and mobile telephony and fixed telephony. But it's also very clear and crystal clear that the revenues from the telephony are going down, and they're even going down radically. And it can even be said that in principle all of this somehow says that the time of copper and copper wire is slowly behind us and that it is time that not only industry, industry has long been thinking about it, but we as a state start to think about what's behind copper because once upon a time we built copper to every village, now it's time for copper to change and to start building other things to every village and place, and that's optics and optical infrastructure. The argument is that if you look at tables and charts that one other part of the income of a total telecom operator is growing year after year, these are revenues from Internet access. And these revenues have practically tripled in the last four, five years. And if we look at it that way, it's definitely clear that both our citizens and people living in Croatia and who are working in general are increasingly using Internet access, and they need optical infrastructure to access the Internet other than copper. Furthermore, it is also clear that the incomes from the telecoms are falling both because of recession and because of everything else. However, what is the fact that no matter what incomes are falling here is already said citizens are increasingly using the same telecom operators and are getting more and more services for less and less money. We live in a time of the Internet where we generally ignore the phone very easily using skype using viber using whatsapp and similar applications that work on the Internet. Now, I would go back to another detail, talking about how much telecom operators invest in the Republic of Croatia, or how much they invest in themselves. From the charts it is very clear that with age they invest less and less. The issue, of course, is the crisis and recession again, and on the other hand, they are private telecom operators who definitely have to look at their final account, they have to look at their profits. They will invest in the country, of course, as much money as they can logically invest, and if they make less money. As a state, it is important and unquestionable for those who invest more in the state and to build as much as possible. Of the total number here, which means 1.8 billion kuna, one major part of that money is invested in their current networks and a new step. Let's say the nets of a new generation, into their devices, hardware whatever you want. A small part of it is invested in this optical infrastructure that we're talking about. Because now the time has come as it is said at the time of fiberization, the time has become necessary to build optical cables, optical highways and optical pathways. And the point is that what I personally think is that a lot more money and resources in this country should start investing in this area. If you are looking at the location of the Republic of Croatia today, we are at 22.1% and the EU at 30.9. This doesn't sound too much in numbers, but if you look at the chart, we're at the bottom. There are only three countries below us, but it's all very close. Which means that there is still much we in this country to do to get from broadband to EU level. And representation means that the more citizens have a connection, the more a connection to the broadband internet. Moreover, the results are much more devastating if you look at the availability of broadband internet by county in the Republic of Croatia. We are on average at 22% but if you are looking at the table our most underdeveloped county is Požega-slavonska with only 14% availability, which is half less than the EU. That I can dare say quite disastrously. On the other hand, those who drag us forward are Zadar County, Split-Dalmatia, Dubrovnik-Neretvanska, Istria, Primorje-goranska, City of Zagreb and Zagreb County, they are above average. But I guarantee you that if you move urban centres such as Zadar, Split, Dubrovnik, Zagreb, Pula, Rijeka you will also get very, very bad if you do not get the worse results we are talking about. And what I'm saying is that we absolutely need to start thinking urgently about that we invest as much money from all possible means in the development of shipbuilding, in the development and construction of optical networks. Now, I'd like to say that we're going to the end, and I'd like to mention two ways to do it in the Republic of Croatia at this point, and I'd like to praise and de facto, as a representative, to appeal to keep doing it that way and to make it even better and stronger. The first thing, this is the programme I was just mentioning in the HACOM replica, it has given state incentives for the rapid development of broadband networks in areas of special state concern or mountainous areas and islands. During 2014, HACOM has awarded almost 17 million kunas through various competitions, which are precisely in areas where there is no developed broadband Internet that should be built through different projects by the optical network and developed and worked on broadband availability. What I know is that the projected funds over the last 4.5 years were about 100 million kunas. So it's exactly the money of a telecom operator who went back through HACOM and the state to build the broadband infrastructure that we need. And I think it's something very positive and that we definitely need to move on with them. The second example of the work to be done is the project of uniting the optical infrastructure of state-owned companies. The last government did it even though I have to tell the truth that governments went in that direction before that and tried to do something like that, but the last government managed to close the circle, so let's say the whole project and the project went in the right direction. So, in the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure and the State Transmitters and Connections for the first time, a complete optical infrastructure has been combined in state-owned companies, from HAC, ARZ, JANAF, Plinacro, HEP however you wish. Over eight thousand miles of optics that hadn't served before, I won't say anything, but it didn't serve the citizens, it served the business processes of these companies. Today, for the first time, transmitters and connections uniquely manage the entire infrastructure and this infrastructure and this project together with HAK and with the whole story is part of a big story about the construction of digital Croatian structural funds and everything else. Through the Structural Funds, I have been told how much I know about 240m euros in the next 6.7 years just for this story. And what I want to say in the end is that we definitely need to use the synergy of the state and the synergy of the private sector to make full money that private telecoms invest not only in the development of themselves, but also in the development of being a network because they logically invest where they can return money very quickly tomorrow. Let's try to coordinate their investments as best as possible to try to better coordinate the investments that HACOM is doing through funding recovery and try to coordinate all these European funds as best as possible in order to get them off this 20% scale on the 30% scale on which the EU is located. Because we're definitely going to digital society and digital society is how familiar I am with one of the priorities is here today. If we fail to do so regardless of the many progress we make in the country, which is just going to be a very big problem if we cough in this direction. And I will finally just read the findings of a study done for the European Commission, which says, "In general, looking at 10% of the consumer's broadband access makes it possible to increase GDP by 1.38%, which is reflected through an increase of jobs in jobs such as network development and network maintenance, as well as to increase the overall economic activity due to the increase in the use of electronic services available via broadband." 10% increase in broadband availability is exactly what we need in Croatia. Of those 22 to get to the current 30 or so, by the time we get to it, they're already going to be at 30 and something. And this is, you know, maybe it's a little more up-to-date and brave to say the recipe, but really this is one way how very simple but with a lot of effort, knowledge and pain and to get to the point that the gross national product is basically increasing as you see by studies by 1.5% building our country and building what makes us citizens choose us. Because the task of every government, I am just finishing up, is to ensure every government's minimum municipal standard of life for every citizen in the Republic of Croatia no matter where they live. Not only in Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and others, but in all islands and in all places in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1820	Thank you. That's what we're done with the individual debates. Does the applicant want to contact the report? Yeah. The final report, Mr. Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1821	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your comments, questions and suggestions for improvement. HACOM will use them anyway as guidelines to further improve HACOM's work. In my final debate, I would like to answer some of your questions and comments from today's debate, and normally to be available together with my associates and associates not only until the annual report but every day. If you have any questions regarding HACOM's work. The role of HACOM in market development, particularly in rural areas and islands, is unquestionable. So we will continue in co-operation with other institutions in the Republic of Croatia, above all, with government ministries on the development of the market, to increase investment. This was the 2014 report, for 2015 I can tell you off the record that about 25% of the more investment operators are, which is certainly a positive indicator. Further investment is expected through EU funds, public-private partnerships and through Juncker's plan where HACOM's role as a framework national programme for the development of the access network is large and what the European Commission confirmed last week. I am sorry that Mr. Assembly Representative Bulj is not there, I would invite him to come to us in HACOM, to see how we protect citizens, all citizens throughout the Republic of Croatia from harmful radiation through measurements, through preventive measurements and procedures that are involved, but the topic that Mr. Parliament's representative has highlighted here exceeds the jurisdiction of HACOM and is certainly the topic for another debate in which HACOM will be one of the stakeholders in this debate. I would just say that it is difficult to have a signal and a density of broadband internet access and coverage of the Republic of Croatia without infrastructure, and that infrastructure should be built anyway. When we talk about spatial plans or the regulation on electromagnetic radiation, we enter the domain of the ministry's jurisdiction so that HACOM is only one of those who gives his opinion and certainly when the debate on the topic is restarted, that HAKOM will be very happy to participate if he is invited. In connection with the interference from Italy, the point would be that it was HAKOM who has been warning the problem in recent years, which warned the international telecommunications community in Geneva, the European Commission, the European Regulatory Authority BEREK and everything within our jurisdiction that has resulted in Italy changing the frequency plan. There have been many other activities, above all the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs and the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, but these activities are certainly not for some public debate and Mr. Parliamentarian you are even interested, I invite you to come to us so we can introduce you to all the activities in recent years. I'm sorry that you're from some of the numbers you found, which are indisputably the same as you said you've drawn certain conclusions that I disagree with. I'm very happy and proud that we gave 100 million kuna for capital donations and it's precisely a programme to encourage the development of broadband internet access. It's just what's called a computer item. Nothing was donated but returned to the market, returned to the Republic of Croatia. I wish there was one zero more and it was billions of kunas and not 100 million kunas. Also, I am sorry that the fees paid by the operators are called parafiscal duties and it is a border national good as it remembers the forest, gravel or our coast and I would not call them parafiscal imposing because 650 million kuna was paid into the state budget that HACOM collected on behalf of the Republic of Croatia and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It's also not about having 44m per employee, but don't count the areas for a special purpose, don't forget the role of HACOM in part of national critical infrastructure and in the national security system. And the facilities we have are not only for the work of workers but also for some devices and peaceful equipment that also takes up some space. Normally, when you share the total space with the number of employees, you statistically get some indicators, but the fact that they are not workers is ignored, there is also equipment in these areas and it is the same lease of business space. I would also point out that HACOM will continue to work, primarily on the development of the market not only what the regulatory body itself is doing but also on being a socially responsible market regulation. I would like to note that the applications used today by the citizens of Croatia by e-Citizens, e-Health, e-Safety, firefighters, e-schools, e-schools, all of this funded and were actually held in the organisation of HACOM from the funds that HACOM has raised from the market and in fact it remains for the Republic of Croatia and not for HACOM employees. If there are any more of your questions, I would very much like to answer and repeat once again if you have any questions or are interested in the work of HACOM not to wait for the next annual report but to come and visit us at our centre in Zagreb. And we are also at locations in Osijek, Split, Rijeka and we still have 10 other locations where we have control stations. Thank you again for your attention and your participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1822	I thank Mr. Lucic. So we're done with this point. The vote is when the conditions are met. We will continue to work tomorrow, the point that is first on the agenda is the report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Co-Government Institute for 2014. So I'll see you tomorrow, thank you and goodbye. ... At 9.30 a.m. standard session was suspended at 16.30 p.m. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-03-0.u1823	The following is the Annual report on the work of the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities for 2014. The report is submitted by the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal of the Economic Committee, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Annual report on the work of the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities for 2014. A year.". Please vote. The vote is over. 96 votes for, 7 abstentions, 11 against. I find that most of the votes have come to the conclusion that it was proposed by the Committee on the Economy. Good morning! We continue with the session on the agenda as scheduled. Here's the esteemed representative of the Hrelja.
