ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u202	Dear Mr. President, before I move to the first point of debate today's session, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HNS Club, HSU because I'd like to say something about the state of stress among the pensioners because of the poor communication of the Income Tax Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u203	Take a break of 10 minutes. Thank you. It's 9:00.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u204	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u205	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, of course, are right to say that we will have time for another week and weeks to discuss all of this package of tax laws, but I cannot let our pensioners go under one state of stress and under the condition that they send us e-mails every day in fear that all those who have a pension of more than 3800 kn will pay a tax of 24%. They send me messages like that. That's actually not true, but I'm taking the opportunity to say it from this pay phone. However, there is also a problem when they go to read the bill themselves and now the bill. Then they will find in their explanation that all pensions above 3800 will be taxed by 24% reduced by 50% to pensioners, which means that all over 3800 kuna will pay 12% of taxes. And this is why I say this from this pay phone that in some ways those who listen I calm them down so that that part of the tax rate won't change anything. But something else will change. Their expectations will be betrayed because this bill on income tax will not fulfil the two intentions given in the light of the law. One intention is to be socially sensitive, so there can't be a bill of social sensitivity when a fat goose rubs his neck. Those with the highest salaries and the largest pensions in Croatia. So, those who have over 6,000 kuna gross pensions in Croatia, there are 15000 of them, they will get the most from this tax reform. Those with the highest pensions will receive a net of 1000 kuna. When one objectes to our coalition government, I must remind him that, with an increase in the untaxable amount of pension from 3400 kuna to 3800 kuna, we have fired the pensioners 10 and a half million kuna a year for the budget and more for the benefit of the pensioners. We have a situation here that releases millions and 300 thousand kunas a month in favour of 15,000 pensioners with the highest incomes. This is not socially sensitive, this is a failed tax reform, a failed income tax reform. There's something else I want to say. The reason for the law states that we want to attract our emigrants to live in Croatia at the end of their lives. It can't be. They have their own economic account. So as long as there is an untaxable amount of pension at such a low level they will have their residence, they will be here but they will have their residence in another country and in another country they will pay taxes and contributions. I remind Slovenia has an untaxable pension amount of 1050 euros, Italy has 900 euros of untaxable amount, Germany has 950 euros of untaxed pension. We need to get close to these amounts if we want our emigrants who have worked outside for years to come back to Croatia to live with their residence. Because otherwise they live here, they have a residence outside. Health insurance is used on the burden of the Croatian budget. We have a solid theory of absurdity. I repeat again as regards pensioners with this tax reform and with a 24% tax rate, they will not be damaged because they are subject to a 12% tax rate. However, it will be damaged from other titles, smaller local budgets, fewer opportunities for social benefits, and eventually the coffee it loves and who can drink it will be more expensive. We have to worry and we have time to change these illogicalities, because this is really going to be a missed reform in the income tax area. Thank you very much. Excuse me. And I meant for Mr. Petrov, too bad he wasn't here, and I've assigned a table of calculations exactly per group, and I'm going to leave it here on his desk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u206	Thank you very much. We could now interfere with that first item of the agenda, which is - The proposal for a decision to appoint a director-in-chief of Croatian Radio Television is proposed by the Committee on Information, Information and Media on the basis of Article 19. The law on Croatian broadcasting. The material was delivered to the boxes. Would the applicant like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear President of the Committee on Information, Information and Media, colleague Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4038	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So by Article 19a. point (b) is replaced by the following: The Croatian Radio Television Act is prescribed that, in the event of the termination of the term of office of the Croatian Director of Radio Television, the Croatian Parliament will appoint the Executive Director of HRT for a maximum period of 6 months until the election of the new head director of HRT. To remind us that on 4 March 2016, the Croatian Parliament adopted a Decision on the discharge of the Director-General of Croatian Radio Television and the Decision to appoint the Executive Director of Croatian Radio Television when the Director-General was appointed Siniša Kovacic. Since the deadline of six months for the appointment of the director-general of HRT expired on 4 September 2016 and the Croatian Parliament did not decide on the appointment of the head director of HRT and decided on the disbanding of the Croatian Parliament which entered into force in July 2016 could not be called for a tender. At its meeting on 31 August 2016, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a regulation amending the Law on HRT, which has prescribed a six-month period for the Director-General to be extended to one year, in which the Director-General appointed by the decision of the Croatian Parliament to carry out his duties until 1 October 2016. Since HRT has since 1 October 2016 no legal representative who is authorised to present and represent this public institution in both legal transport and other affairs, the Committee for Information, Information and Media at its second session held on 10 November 2016 and after the discussion was conducted unanimously established a proposal for a decision to appoint Mr. Blago Markot as the acting director of HRT, and as such a proposal for a decision submitted by reason to the Croatian Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4039	Thank you very much. Then I'd open up the discussion and we'd go clubbing first. The first club will be that HDS-HSLS in the name of which the honourable representative Goran Dodig will take over. Here you go. In doing so I want to act preventively, and preventively means I ask you to stick to all your discussions really topics. I know why I'm saying this and I know the potential dangers that can occur whenever HRT is mentioned, so I'm asking you nicely to stick to the subject, and the subject is the acting head of HRT. Excuse me, colleague Dodig. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4040	Dear fellow MPs and MPs, the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament with his associates. When I came for this pay phone, I thought about whether I was going to be inside the topic or not, so I totally understand you. But if I did interrupt me and if I'm off topic and I'm going to accept it, but I think I'm talking about the director of HRT and not talking about the profile of the institution and what we expect from this institution and what we as a Parliament expect, which we are, which is Croatian television. I don't know how to separate it. So I'm going to say a few introductory sentences just on that subject. If we appoint the director of HRT, then it means that we have a specific goal of what kind of person we want to name there and what that person is going to do. I'm not gonna stick around here on economic aspects, it's important that someone else will talk about it, but about what is essential television and what is Parliament. The Parliament through legal solutions, through public action, through staff solutions, and this is here and other activities is involved in the overall development of social, political, economic and all relations in the country. In this, we have an institution or we have an institution called Croatian Television, which has a significant impact on the development of these relationships, which has an important impact on what we will have on the average political consciousness, what cultural consciousness we will have, what we will have to do with marginal groups in society, what we will have to deal with minorities, what we will have to do with aggression that is dominant, not in our society, but in the whole world at this point, what we will have to do with the surface that has affected the whole society. For this reason, the director, I do not want to say anything about Mr. Marcota, I do not know him, I believe the board that made the right decision and we will support it, but I want to stress the following, Croatian television as it is does does does not meet the criteria of what I think television should do. First, it's public television, it's television that's funded by the citizens of this country. It's a television that's every day in our houses, it's an institution that teaches us how we're going to be, it's an institution that directs us far more than we find it strange than this Parliament, but this government. There's one saying that it's hard to imagine a more dangerous way of acting and deciding than giving authority in the hands of people who aren't responsible for mistakes. So now someone's gonna think I want to get involved in editorial policy, I'd say so, if I wanted to, and I will. Why? Do we have the right to make comments on the HRT programme in this House? If we don't have the right to make remarks, then we're enslaved to dogmas about the absolute freedom of journalists. Absolute freedom is a very dangerous story. That's why we have an elite time, at 8:00 in the evening, on the first TV show of the cook and the state is cramping in problems not only economically but in civilization. We have every night on television aggression that becomes a part of us. We have every night on TV shows of American that are deadly for an average man. And now, where the way out of it, how to explain that people, the average man, are starting to think like that, there's clear and completely scientific evidence of how our brain works. We act the way he feeds us information. And that information is fake, virtual, but most importantly superficial. We're starting to think superficially. Daily habitation, watching violence, we become insensitive to violence. Every day, the fear of us, every day when we're afraid of poverty, we become socially insensitive. Every day when he's scared of us with threats and TV shows are like that, then I'm giving up my own freedoms. You see, you know the fact that a referendum was held in Switzerland about people accepting them, following them, following them in one Switzerland because television, because it convinced them all, the media convinced them that they were in danger. So people give up their basic human needs to move freely and they accept them listening, listening to them, accepting them being followed, and actually being unfree. They've accepted cameras every day at every moment they know, they know where they are. I don't mind new technology, but we've accepted that modern devices know where we are at all times. It's no problem to know where we are but it becomes a problem when it becomes a common practice to track a criminal is quite understandable to me, but that for every man, for every kid who has a modern, smart phone, you know at every moment where he is, it's something that's worrying. It's a worrying fact that we make it. And that's why I expect, I won't bother you very much with this, I should talk about these hours that the director, what's v.d. Director, I hope if he's good enough to stay that man director, why should we choose him for 6 months, means he has qualifications, but if he doesn't get into this problem that's global but also has details that we can talk about very much about which are our national problem, national television, public television that becomes as commercial as well. The other day one of the editors on one, on our TV on Croatian TV, told me we give, we give news, information and we force those who say something in 30 seconds. In 30 seconds to say something that would be important to the nation, which would be important to the profile of us working in the Parliament is nonsense but such people keep showing up on TV. And then we wonder why certain people become popular, why certain people are those who are actually stars. The surface, the eccentricity, the speech at the level of conflict, it became a way of treating it and it became what became significant to our television. I can understand that television has to take care of its ratings, but it's more important, believe me, more important is public television, television that won't be so much, which doesn't have to be cost-effective economics because there's a lot of talk on TV, a lot of reserves, and where money is spent, for which programs, for which productions, why are people being paid outside and why there's no domestic production? We could certainly talk about that. But this part of being the role of television and the director of television is a key person in that, we need to talk about it. That's the essence of our debate here. I know there's going to be a colleague who's going to argue with the media to advocate absolute freedom of journalism, absolute freedom is something that's very questionable. It creates, that feeling creates a sense of amnipotence and a sense of infallibility and there is no one who is not wrong. And that's why I expect the director of Croatian television to take care of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4041	Thank you, dear colleague Dodig. Indeed, you have left the topic, so I ask my colleagues to come down to hold the topic that is here before us because the wider debate on the role of television is appropriate when the report on the work of Croatian television is on the agenda and this is now the appointment of the executive director. So not about all the issues related to television. But we have two replicas, excuse me three. He is the first to be respected representative of Ivan Lovrinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4042	Mr. Vice President, I fully agree with your approach to considering this problem, although the subject today is a proposal for a decision to appoint an executive. You've really opened the right topic. So here it's more important to talk ad hominem here than ad rem. So it's not about the program. It's about the man. It confirms that this is a party council, it confirms that we should have a man, send him, the man is a program. What you have said is quite agreeable, and Mr. Vice President, this is very much about this topic that we are discussing because it is unacceptable for this House, for the citizens who have chosen us to talk only about having to choose a man there regardless of who it is and how good he was and not to open the issue of Croatian television as a public service and then for many years he has been involved in creating and eliminating the most important values of Croatian society. It participates in the poisoning of a particularly young generation that cannot, which has no such experience from a learning apparatus, that it can critically grasp, observe all that is offered, such aggression, surface. Therefore, production, the aim is obviously to produce a mediocre society that is able to consume then all that is offered to it according to that principle of use, ourselves, etc. Therefore, my appeal is actually to talk about Croatian television, it is a structural problem, there should be an economic structural reform that has 2800 people there, it has, we know how it works, it's poor production, but I suggest we talk about an institution, a programme and then, of course, people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4043	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4044	Dear Vice President, my replica is what you said about the program. So let's not put so much focus on people, it's what's going to be done or what's not going to be done on HRT. I'll remind you that we're here at one of the guarantees to discuss reducing HRT's subscription. Because it's not the same, but of course there's nothing, so it's not the same for people who have 1800 kuna pensions and for those who are either representatives here or company directors to pay the same subscription of 80 kuna. So it's just unfair. These people's 1800 kunas barely make ends meet, it's a church they can't survive. On the other hand, television is the only window in the world to these people. And that's what we need to talk about here. The government's proposal was prepared for the most vulnerable groups of pensioners during the SDP government, the HRT has not spent it in the past year. Therefore, 40 kuna or less subscription is something that we need to talk about here, so we have to allow people who have less to pay less, and those who have more to pay more and for example the subscription of HRT because it is unfair to pay a subscription of 80 kuna all and those who have 15 thousand kuna and those who have barely 1800 kuna pensions. These people are the only windows in the world, and we need to make it possible for them as a social and fair society and as a social state. So I'd like to talk more about it today, about the program, not about who came to which position. We need to talk about content. This is the content of how people who have little to pay less.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4045	Thank you very much. I see my request is not respected at first. Second colleague Bernardić, report for the debate, so all you said was I agreed or disagreed, all of us agreed with it may have absolutely nothing to do with it because my colleague Dodig mentioned the subscription in no single word. One word. So it's not a replica to him, but he'll answer anyway. Here you go. You're the one who caused the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. My colleague Bernardic, do you think the Rules of Procedure have been injured? What article was injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4046	As a representative, I have the right to speak. 268. So, as a representative, I have the right to speak. But what's important is to say If I had answered the word regularly in a debate like this, my men would have come to order at seven o'clock in the evening. [[Intruder Reiner: You do not have the right to abuse the institution of breach of the Rules of Procedure.]] So the theme is Every time you talk about her, that's the reason. [[I'm asking you nicely, first.../]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4047	The theme isn't always about her. We're in Parliament, we're not on the payroll. Therefore, you have now abused consciously because you do not know the Rules of Procedure at all. You've invented a number that speaks of the tenth thing. You can read the Rules of Procedure and you'll see that you've turned out to be funny with it now, and completely unnecessary. You could have responded nicely to the word and all that you said in your discussion was normal. Here you go, colleague Dodig.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4048	Here, I'll just give you a quick answer. I agree with what Mr Bernardic said. Of course it wasn't a replica to this exhibit of mine. But I think you're doing well in this campaign for the president of the SDP and that I might be there to vote for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4049	Thank you very much. Here is the next replica of the esteemed representative, Mark Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4050	I commend the presentation of fellow Dodig because he has opened many important topics, they may not be quite on the agenda but these are the relationship between objective and subjective realities, integrated realities, a problem that makes man no longer able to suspend some biological need because of ideals. And let's just remember that it was people who had ideals that triggered history that they were bringing novelty into the historical movement. But I would only replicate if you could explain this concept of absolute freedom to me, because I don't find it very comforting that editorial policy can have absolute freedom. As soon as it's agreed to the editorial policy, it's about one form of censorship. If you can.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4051	The honourable representative Goran Dodig will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4052	Maybe it's not real, it's not well articulated on this absolute freedom. The absolute freedom from a philosophical point of view is quite different, but I'm talking about the real situation on television as most journalists think. So you'll hear the reporter who says I can work on my show whatever I want, I can call whoever I want, I can take whoever I want for the credit card. So it's not absolute but there's one great freedom, of course that freedom is in that journalist's value system. The value system of journalists doesn't mean that the values of society are what we want. And that's why it seems to me that there should be a real balance between the relationship of his ability to be creative, that doesn't mean that he wants his creativity, that I want his creativity mutilated in any way but you see now on television, you see every night, that the choice of movies, the choice of programs, the choice of people who are on TV are a disaster. Here's the disaster. And then if I knew, it would be nice to talk to you otherwise it has a strong impact on the general population especially on the young people what he said. You have one song in Croatia called I'm going where everything is my way. I call it an anthem psychopathy, it's an anthem of psychopathy. That's what you keep hearing, you know. Because if you say it, it'll be my way, then we can't do it together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4053	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, the next one will be taken by the esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4054	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. We often discuss HRT in this House and sometimes we get the impression that we're discussing lost things, that we're discussing something that we have, but what we've actually lost along the way. It is very common to discuss the new director or V.D. the director of the opportunity to strengthen such feelings or to weaken such feelings, to discuss something that is, in fact, for us, for Croatia, for her government and for her Parliament public service of Croatian Radio Television, actually a lost thing. This is what many within the HRT and within this House and within those who have money, power and who want to win another prey that has so far failed to win and have a relatively broad alliance in this business. Is there anything we can do here in the Croatian Parliament to stop such a process? I don't know. There's a lot of us who'd like that. And is that enough for us? I don't know. This is what our colleague Dr. Dodig, I recognize as one in that possible coalition who would like to stop this process in which we will no longer have anything to discuss for a mandate or two, except perhaps the name and the rest of the assets as we discuss a series of public enterprises we have or still have. Our vice president rightly says we should discuss a V.D. candidate and I think that this candidate who is not politically prominent, who is not media-marked, who does not belong to a political spectrum that I belong to or to a political worldview or to a world-wide mirror that I belong to, but we share common values such as tolerance, such as pluralism, such as professionalism, such as the rule of law, and if we share it, it is a minimum common denominator based on which we can act together and on whom we can give support to each other. It hasn't been like that in the last year. Now we trust that with this proposal passed by the board and coming from our colleagues, therefore the ruling coalition, that we can get a man who will protect and promote what we think is necessary to HRT. I'll put in first place not objectivity, but criticism. There's too much apologetics on HRT, and there's too little criticism on the assumption that we know what's objective and what's not, what's not and what's not. The assumption that we can have criticism is the professionalism and enlightenment of journalists as well as ourselves. We heard here yesterday a kind of debate that ruled unprovedness. Some have defended this impeccableness as the right to vote, the unprovedness, and the responsibility of all of us. But the vulgarity and haughtiness of unenlightenment is something that no society tolerates, and no community tolerates, but takes role models. And does HRT create patterns? Unfortunately, it's long gone, not in the speaker's, not in the reporter's, not in the leader's, but it's the ones we change in power like in the morning or in the evening we change socks. That's how you can't create anything professional. For this reason, respected colleagues and colleagues, the new director should make it possible for public television to calm down, to stop the internal conflicts we hear about, to stop the internal plantings and the accounts we hear about, and to devote themselves to what their job is, to create that kind of tranquillity as an assumption of good working atmosphere and good governance because with the condition we've had in the past, it wasn't the case. And that's our responsibility. And if the candidate we're discussing here today as a V.D. candidate. The director brings this first thing to HRT it will be of great importance to its functioning. The second thing is more and more of those who believe secularism is a bad thing, so what characterized the heart of the world over the past 300, 400 years, and that is the secularity on the European continent, on the American continent, that it is a bad thing. So that what made the world modern and what made it unimaginable progress, unimaginable progress in various areas of human action that it was bad, we also feel on HRT, as on radio, and on television, that secularism becomes a reality and that those who think that it is not a place there are trying to win it by suppressing it. We all have our beliefs, but if we turn our beliefs into a dogma, and if we turn the dogma into a means of ruling people, our minds and our senses will not remain much. Another important and necessary assumption is enlightenment. If we're going to give up enlightenment, if we're going to bring the whole thing down to reality, to entertainment shows, as many banal parties as possible that we're talking about here. And if we're going to compete with commercial televisions in the Farms or Life in the Village or Big Brother, and we don't find ways to create from public television public well-being our battle will be lost, maybe it's already lost as I said at the beginning. Maybe we're doing a job to get back at something we lost, but I'm pretty sure it's not necessary. Finally, Director, I hope that this candidate will do so, that he will stop the mismanagement of the financial and non-financial resources available to HRT, that he will do everything he can to manage the available financial resources of which is a significant part based on the decisions of this Parliament and of this Government and also not on the financial resources, the means to work, that he will manage them in a way that will be different from what has been managed in recent years. There are too many indicators that, with financial resources and non-financial resources, many cameras, many vehicles ended up as well as in the case of some other public companies in private companies and private hands. As the research programs for wind power plants that he did hep ended up in private hands that we now subsidize and pay subsidies, so does the news car, for cameras, for a number of other things HRT had in its possession. And the cameramen and journalists when you see them here in the Parliament or when they come to the press conference they hold on camera shoulders much older generations than their colleagues from commercial television. Why? Is it because they have a shortage of money? No, it's because that money's being run badly or in no way. We can't ask the new V.D. to change everything overnight because it's V.D. but to send the message that we're sending here that should be stopped. And finally, I don't know if it's possible for HRT to be a public good that won't be a bad mirror of our poor condition as it is now. But if we want to be a society, if we want to be a nation that will not be confirmed on a daily basis in nationalist statements, but in the manifestation of constitutional patriotism in this small book and the values it highlights, then we will have the best way to stop irresponsible management, irresponsible availability and unprofessional editing, there is no other. If HRT as a public good manifest and protects the highest values that our Constitution prescribes then there is some future for our television and for our radio and how much is going to happen now that we don't know who's all involved in editing the shows, how many editors and editors do that and how many people in the shadows, unnamed, unauthorized, but influential, in charge of other jobs but not that kind of work, so let's send a message from here. As parties cannot influence how the programme will be edited, no religious community, no ethnic community, no special group can participate. It should have its own space and place but not disguised, hidden and unauthorized forms of influence as to how to edit and how to dispose. And the current state, the state of the past years or decades shows that it's a practice. It's an opportunity to say that and wish for a new V.D. I'll tell the principal that at least some of it, if he hears anything else and we hope it happens in his term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4055	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. She is the first to be the respected representative of Zeljko Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4056	Mr. Pupovac, I think we'd agree that the first human right is the right to the truth. So who prevents this truth from being expressed, and why is Croatia where it is now? Why isn't it said, why haven't we got catharsis yet, why aren't we talking about key problems in Croatian society that are constantly blocked in the mainstream? In the mainstream media we have, in the media in general in Croatia we have one weekly that is independent. We know who else holds the media. You had a recent director of this HRT who was a member of the tito-jourgeny, lectured the staff to a dead dictator, and why no key problems are being discussed and that here is being led by the racism reverse, for example. Why not talk about 7% of the land introduced in land books, it is a key problem for Croatia, and what is the problem? It's called nationalization. Why is it not said that the Croatian diaspora is completely excluded from the economic and social development it sends here every year 16 billion kunas minimum recorded. Now these people have been taxed, double pension taxes, no one's coming back here. Why not just talk about an economic crime translated after 45, why not talk about these mass graves here? It's not the past, the bones don't lie. Why is not spoken also if we are talking about statements, I will give you an example of where no one reacts from our liberals of great, democratic, etc. Some contemporary artists from England Gilbert & George came here a few years ago and said this at the Museum of Contemporary Art we are already nervous, here almost everyone is white or Catholic, what is the reaction? Here's the least racism, there's the biggest problem that doesn't come to the truth. We know who's holding the mainstream media so people over, and that HRT for 20 years people are idiotic and we can't get the key information. That has to change.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4057	Thank you. The esteemed Pupovac will respond. Here you go. You won't, thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4058	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague, you said in your presentation that the VD director has a short period of time in which he can do something of quality. And here we agree with you from the HSS Club and I will support the appointment of the VD director. However, for public reasons, it should be said that it is not good for Croatian television to be long without a director who can conduct politics in the long term exactly as Croatian television should be. That it is public, that it is transparent, that it speaks about those truths that are important to citizens because it creates public opinion on many policies and problems in Croatia. And therefore here we advocate preparing the competition as soon as possible and opening a regular invitation to tender for the selection and appointment of the director of Croatian Television. And you also mentioned in your presentation various shows that make fun of life in the country on other televisions and do parodys of life in the country. And we advocate and ask the new directors to be more about life in rural space, to propagate that end and what, current programs in all schemes aren't so much represented, and you know why? Because correspondence has been abolished in Novi Gradišca, and in Slavonski Brod, and in Virovitica, and in dozens of places all under the password of some kind of savings, and you yourself said that money is spent on some strange things and strange ways going to where it should be to have journalists who are employed and in local environments working for public television, who talk about the quality of life both in Slavonia and Baranja, Zagorje, Lici and all other underdeveloped areas. These topics, these shows are gone. And I think that practice has to change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4059	Thank you. The esteemed Pupovac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4060	My dear colleague, I fully agree with your observation that it is necessary that as soon as possible we select a new director and that this period of behaviour of the VD director whom I hope we will choose today be as short as possible. I also believe that you are as aware as other colleagues and colleagues that it is necessary as soon as possible to select a new Supervisory Board which is an extremely important institution within the HRT under a new legal solution. And finally select a new programming council. These are assumptions in which the institutional first line of the HRT will be consolidated and that is our responsibility. You're right if it takes a month, two days is too long, but if it lasts as long as it lasts, then it's an inadmissible state where things can happen that are uncontrollable and that usually means bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4061	Thank you very much. Next on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative Nenad Stazic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4062	Thank you, dear Vice President. So years of experience in the Parliament taught me that HRT is absolutely the most inspiring topic for MPs. It is an opportunity for MPs to show that they would run that house much better than the current leadership does, but also to show how the program should be edited. But it's not the only thing that happens when the issue of HRT is opened, but it's an opportunity to say that only 7% of the land is listed in land books, that taxes on pensions in the diaspora have been introduced, that they are lamentable about absolute freedom. I'm going to try to tear off that attack to talk about HRT and the HRT program, not just because you wouldn't have something to say, but simply because it's not a topic. The theme is the new VD director. That's Mr. Treasure Marcott. A man who's been on HRT since he was 99, means 17 years old. Who performed responsible duties there and performed them in a very good way. That's what his colleagues think of him, which may be the most important thing. The ones who know him best. It's a man who's not politically exposed, which is very good. And for that reason, the SDP club will support him. We think he's a very reasonable, very thoughtful proposal and we have no objection whatsoever. We are the responsible party, responsible club, we were responsible and then the last time Mr. Sinisa Kovačić was proposed for v.d. Director. We had serious reserves that, unfortunately, proved to be well-founded. I'm sorry that this same coalition that was then in HDZ and MOST didn't listen to us. Namely, Mr. Kovac is like V.D. Director overstepped his powers. He fulfilled the HDZ promise before the election to move everything on TV. He made that promise, he's probably why he was brought in. And he replaced a bunch of editors and journalists there. He changed the programming scheme, so he did what V.D. The principal doesn't normally work. V.D. The director for what he does, he runs a temporary house, makes sure that the salaries are paid and that everything works until the right director is elected who will have the mandate to make changes. We were afraid of it, we warned about it, you didn't listen to us, so the house was ruined even more than it was. We hope this new director, we believe he won't behave like that because he's a more serious man. And we believe it will be really only V.D. Director until a full-term director is elected. Since the same team of HDZ and MOST missed it in the last year, she missed it because you were irresponsible, because you only talked to each other about who was going to be in the position. This is where you staffed, and HRT and HRT director were none of your business, irresponsible people, irresponsible politicians. And since you're the same team I'm warning, the SDP club warns you not to continue to act irresponsiblely but to carry out this competition for the director of HRT inside and end within these 6 months as long as the mandate of V.D. can last. Director. It means don't repeat the circus you've already made. Since you've made it, there's a great danger that you'll repeat it, because you've shown that you're capable of that circus. Well, the SDP's only fear is that we support you with this candidate in order to show our responsibility, to see that we're not acting politically and not to blame you just to resent you, here we give you support and invite you to be a little more responsible than you've been in the last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4063	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the esteemed representative Željko Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4064	We've had a lot of debates about HRT. One depended on the efficiency assessment, one exhibitor said that the facility could work with maybe 800 people, and down there we have 3 and a half thousand. I wonder if that's how it should be done and sent that's the key thing because it's paid by Croatian tax collectors. Have the Financial Police sent there. The second question is people frames. He said one, that he also said the mentor of these people who were formerly in the party, that's Mr. Lenin. He said the policy is about human policy, and I don't think we should work on HRT for people who are a threat to national security, who have worked in occupied areas, let's just say for Radio Occupied and other institutions of occupiers and now work there. That's another question. And third, you need to check out the qualifications of those people who work there, who may have the Frushkogoric PhDs, diplomas from the Đura Pucara old. It's the frames.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4065	Thank you. The honourable representative Nenad Stazic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4066	Two things. First, HRT is not financed from the budget, therefore from taxpayers. He's being financed by fees. That's one, come on, we can conditionally call it a parafiscal inducement that should enable HRT's independence. You should know that to your colleague Glasnović. So he's not on the budget as you claim. And the other thing, since I see that you're showing ambition to run that house, to barter on it as he wanted to do it, or as the HDZ did, I advise you to report to this contest. Call me back, so if the HRT people estimate that you would do it best because I see you have great ideas that should be thrown out of that house, then maybe they'll pick you out, so throw you out. And until then, leave that house alone.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4067	Thank you. Next, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, the Honorable Representative of Nikola Grmoje will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4068	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. HRT and its existence and action are of public interest to the Republic of Croatia. It is a house that should be deprived of any political influence, which should be a pillar of media action in Croatia and a guarantee of media freedom. However, we have witnessed for many years a decline in the ratings of public television and we have witnessed a market struggle in which private houses literally eat Croatian radio television. The newspaper articles we read, the stories we hear point to the full political belonging of that house every four years as it is, meaning that the government is changing. And this particular house should be completely freed from politics, objectively informing and making every effort to put into the freedom of action of its employees, especially as it is paid by Croatian citizens. HRT must not be a hostage to Croatian politics and Croatian citizens' wallets, and it should bring down the criteria of objective journalism year after year. As far as V.D. is concerned, The director of the HRT that we are discussing today and we will vote on MOST gives conditional support to Mr. Markota. We agreed with HDZ on his election in the hope that the rationalisation of HRT's business will indeed be implemented this time. Every time a new director is appointed, we listen to the same grand plans for restructuring, rationalisation, expansion and new programming plans. For example, during the last public debate opened in September 2015 on the Proposal for amendments and additions to the Croatian programme commitments stemming from the contract between the HRT and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the changes and additions were the launch of the North Radio HRT, the increase in the quantity of programme from the Sibenik area, the change in the name Radio Knin to the Sibenik-Knin radio, and the like, while the real changes and additions should apply to the depth restructuring of the HRT. We are not saying this is irrelevant, but it is much more important to raise the ratings of HRT than what will be called radio in the north or south of Croatia. All public debates and efforts around HRT resulted in political bickering and almost meaningless changes. The Law on HRT itself, which needs to be changed, states that HRT will deal impartially with political, economic, social, religious, health, cultural and other issues, allowing an equal confrontation of the position of different sources which we have not witnessed in recent years. Not just the last year of my colleague Stazic's speech. It also states that HRT will truly, fully, impartially and timelyly inform the public about facts, events and phenomena in the country where we were not the same witnesses. It also states that Croatian music must account for at least 40% of the total music content used, and we know that the Croatian composers' association has been crying out for years for quality music content on national television that should store Croatian music and create a platform for its development. The question that is also problematic is external production. In addition to three thousand employees, it is constantly expanding the purchase of external content, which should raise ratings, but clearly does not contribute. What MOST wants from HRT, we want a deep restructuring, not a superficial and public debate on superficial changes and additions. We want HRT to be a public service to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the fullest sense of that word. We expect from V.D. I believe that we will choose here today because we have seen that there is support and opposition, that within six months we launch these deep changes and restructuring of the HRT in a way to remove the salary annex, to launch a new collective contract, to develop a plan of rationalisation of business and the number of employees, to present this plan to the Assembly Committee and to report regularly on the developments in the restructuring plan, that the plan is going towards a reduction of the monthly instalment from 80 to 65 kuna for pensioners and social support users in the first phase, and in the second phase and for all subscribers. So it doesn't stand out what my colleague Bernardic said that MOST is constantly repeating it, there's not much in the assembly, there's a man in the campaign showing up from time to time and repeating the same phrases, but clearly he's not aware of what the government is doing and how the negotiations between MOST and HDZ are going. What is very important to me and what MOST will insist on is that a research journalism department is launched inside the house to open up an even bigger road and create an even greater opportunity for independent investigative journalism. Not to take out the affairs that the political option wants and how it suits it at that time, but that there is an independent department on HRT that will investigate everyone, so here are my colleagues from the Most if there is a need for this if they have sinned about anything that means it is being investigated, to investigate the affair of the wind power plant means the HNS that has brought Croatian citizens into one big trouble that all the affairs mean HDZ, the SDP, come to a standstill. And not if the SDP controls public television, then the HDZ is trampled, if HDZ manages public television to trample the SDP. So regardless of what party uniform we wear if we have sinned against the law of this affair, our independent policy option must be subject to and must be spoken of in the information emissions of HRT. We believe that V.D. The director of the future six months must take managerial and responsible approach to the function in order to meet the HRT's main objective, which is the public interest ahead of political similarity. In that house works a number of top-notch objective professionals for whom the time must finally come, while the unprofessional staff must step away from any political option that fit. Only when politics completely exits the HRT will HRT become a truly public service for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which has not been the case so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4069	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the esteemed representative Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4070	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Grumo, MOST is conditional on supporting this proposal, conditionally supporting tax reform, conditionally supporting this government, keeping the figure in the pocket of a colleague of Grmoy, and changing your mind every time you read in the media the title in which you are shown in a negative light is not politics, it is politics. And this proposal, please either support or do not support it because in this way you will be credible partners in power. I mean, I don't care about the matrimonial disputes of MOST and HDZ, but I care about the stability of my country as well as about HRT and other issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4071	Thank you. The honourable representative of Nikola Grmoi will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4072	I don't know from what you've concluded that MOST is conditional on supporting this or that. The Most is agreeing with HDZ, when it comes to some final proposal then of course it supports it. But we said just because of these calling-outs on your part that MOST has given up cutting the subscription, we'll see how Mr. Marcott does his job. If he does well, there is a possibility as Mr. Stazic said and what they said before everyone who said he was also the new director, means HRT. But on condition now, let's see how he's doing this management job during this period. I think we got it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4073	Thank you. The next one will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative Andro Krstulović Opara. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4074	Dear Mr. Chairman, President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will support and vote in favour of electing HRT directors, and it also testified yesterday and with its vote on the Information and Media Committee. At that session of the Committee, the session lasted very briefly and all the political options in the very brief debate gave support to this proposal, which I consider to be the best. There was no politics, there were no differences in political positions or in ideological segments precisely because HDZ considers this appointment a technical appointment, the appointment of a professional who has proved himself for the last 17, 18 years in this house, who can keep the peace, the stability of the functioning of a system that is deeply damaged, not as Mr Stazic said during Mr Kovačić but long before. And here, I was wondering when you'd mention that segment because I didn't understand yesterday the consistency and calmness of the committee itself. I expected a step in which it would start on the previous V.D. like a person to be replaced. Namely, I'll remind you of the following. In 2010, the HDZ, together with the European Commission, brought the whole package with the EU... a law marked by the EU as the highest possible standard in the regulation of media policy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In 2012, your Government and your Minister changed the law quickly, which was also marked a step backwards from the same European Commission. And in fact, there was this chaotic situation that led us to the fact that we don't have the person who runs the house right now. The law written on Pantovack by President Josipovic was quickly brought here, passed, and we have actually created a situation in which we have reached a stalemate position where we have a V.D. A director who, when his term of office is up, we can no longer have a mechanism to choose from the person who will govern them. That's why I was hoping yesterday that we'd start running HRT in a more peaceful, more quality way and not introduce political elements and accuse the other side of responsibility for the situation on HRT. We are today deciding on v.d., about a person who must introduce stability, peace and share salaries and prepare HRT for the quality selection of directors and other bodies that must meet this high home. Public television, funded by all Croatian citizens and given to us, has actually given us a mandate to manage it, deserves a much more serious approach than some of the highlights we had here today. When there's a debate on the report from HRT, when there's a debate on the selection of the principal we have a committee, we have other forums, we have a plenary session in which we're going to speak critically. Today we're talking about the technical director. You yourself have told fellow Stazić that a man of top trust is the greatest of all his colleagues inside the house, we know for ourselves that he has managed the whole series, well managed the entire set of bodies in television. We know that the government is sovereign with the management of systems and we know that it can manage the financial segment. That's what we need right now. We from the HDZ Club and our political option and ask HRT to continue to cultivate Croatia's cultural national identity on HRT, to promote local cultural identities that in their differences actually give the wealth of the entire identity of Croatia and the nation and that with the development of a documentary programme that has recently grown and its production has just started in, and this independent production has started, precisely to promote these values, to be one of the main lines of development of HRT. We will very much support this trend and insist on it because trivialization is the surface that claps us from other media spaces and through the media cannot be stopped unless we find ourselves here a consensus in which we create a framework and through this framework highlighted values that only HRT has to keep and promote. HRT, stable, peaceful with V.D., which will take hold of the house that has long been the area of political action, the political action directly conducted by Pantovic during the president Josipovic must enter the space of full political, political immunity. It must be socially responsible for the guidelines given by the Programme Council and given by a man who will lead a house that is not politically chosen. We didn't have a case like that during the principal's appointment by your majority. And all the difficulties that we have here today and that we're reading and that actually led us to this position are starting right from that period. On the contrary, our majority together with our partners will insist on transparent business and the choice of this VD director is the guarantee that transparent business will be raised to a higher level. Also, this is not a party issue as counterpart Lovrinovic said. This is a question which is and as I said in technical nature, this is a question that brings HRT back to normality and escapes it from political competitions and political competitions in this home and beyond. Today's decision, let's say, is an open good guarantee and certainly good, if it is unanimous and if it is strong to support this man's choice, it will be a clear message to the man who has to run the house, administer it and most importantly, and I will repeat it once more, as well as some other colleagues prepare the house for quality tendering for the leader. And by that and the other bodies of the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council. Because they are actually responsible for this high home, Croatian citizens and Croatian people. And I'm finishing the HDZ Club will support Mr. Blaga Markota's election of HRT executives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4075	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused several replicas. He is the first to present his representative, Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4076	My dear fellow Oprah, you said something illogical. Oh, my God, it's your thing. You can speak illogically, but it'll make you laugh, I'm sorry. Namely, no former, but in front of the former government and the former minister, I cannot, theoretically, be blamed that in the last six months, no regular director has been elected in the last eight months. And that's why he can't be guilty, and you've accused the law now. So the current law stipulates that a VD director's mandate can take six months. Why the MOST and HDZ have not launched and completed the selection process during these 6 months, you should ask MOST and your colleagues in HDZ. But don't blame it on the former minister because forgive her for one nebulosis, no one will believe you. You seem illogical and ridiculous. So we all know why he wasn't elected because MOST and HDZ were only dealing with who would get the Ministry of the Interior and who would get the Secret Service. That was the darkness. You've got nothing to do with the others, so you haven't even been able to deal with HRT's selection.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4077	Thank you. The distinguished representative Andro Krstulović Opera will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4078	... It is very clear that, Col. Stazic, it is very clear that the amendments to the laws passed at speed in 2012 during your rule created this classic situation and enabled this hiatus which actually brought this Croatian House and the disbanding of the Parliament and the disbanding of the board to the situation that we cannot choose the VD as provided for by the 2010 law. [[Specially enabled.]] You quickly passed the law in 2012 because you concentrated exclusively and only for the installation of your man, Mr. Radman and did not take care of the repercussions and what would happen afterwards. This is often explained in the rest and in the explanation of the committee in which you are a member clearly writes it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4079	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mladen Majera. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4080	Dear Vice President, here's what my colleague from the HSS has announced that the HSS Club will support this proposal for the election of the VD but at the same time my colleague Opara, I agree there should be a political television. And I hope it's time we didn't listen on public TV about HDZ and the SDP, we're listening on multiple shows constantly about HDZ and SDP. I think it is necessary to increase ratings as much as possible but clearly that ratings can be increased and with a view to improving reception. We in our Koprivnica-križevci County or directly in my place half the generals have no signal. So how do you increase ratings if the locals don't have general signals? Secondly, given that in front of the HSS, I have to say that there is very little about public television except Sunday we have a farming program where they come directly from HSS, not HSS's pardons, but farmers where there are no expressed family farms and craftsmen except when we can get on public television like yesterday when Grandma Manda lets the nerasta fertilize herds and then we're right on TV. I think it takes more problems for family farms in places and the local part to address HRT more means family farms.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4081	Thank you very much. And the next replica is the esteemed representative Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4082	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Bojan is my name after all. Comrade Oprah, you have begun the debate in the hope that we will not discuss the past but the new VD. But then, in the debate, you referred several times or accused the SDP of being politically humanised by HRT. I mean, let's face it, since the '90s, your party has just been burning and burning on HRT to culminate in the work of Mr. Kovačić and his administration that has reduced. Here's just one example: the viewership of the HRT information program at the level of some local station, so it's a historically low level. I mean, I'm in favour of being realistic about the mistakes that all administrations have been doing so far, but I don't think it's right for you to object to others, and you don't actually see you mention the failures that the HDZ governments and partners have been doing in the past, and in fact, most of the staffing of the political has been on your part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4083	Thank you. The distinguished representative Andro Krstulovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4084	Dear fellow Glavasevic, yesterday is a session where together you and colleagues Stazic and colleagues Mesic and I chose and recommended to this House the election of Mr Margota, which lasted 15 minutes, where we all agreed had just been deprived of the political topics and the planting and debauchery in history. In his debate on behalf of your club Mr. Stazic opened that box, I had to answer him. He objected to HDZ's political arbitration, attacked Mr Kovacic and in fact accused the previous government of missing continuity in the rule and management of Croatian television. I answered him exactly what was right. The whole chaos took place at a rapid pace when your government and your minister passed the law in 2012 and who only because of Mr Radman's passing those top democratic values that were adopted in the 2010 law in agreement with us both in the process and the European Commission in the process of accessing the European Union. When the law adopted by HDZ is marked by the highest standards possible in creating media policy. The objection could not remain silent. I appealed at the end of my speech and now I'm saying, let's pick a technical V.D. now, let's not go back in time, and if we're going back to the past, you've come to the right field. I was a representative in the first session of the Parliament when Veljko Knezevic was the director of the then TV show Zagreb. We can discuss it. I'm sure the Croatian public doesn't want to hear it, believe mine or your generation. You opened that subject, I had to bring it back. Let's concentrate so we can vote today and give strong support to the new V.D. to finally do this return to the past. But we don't forget the past and the mistakes some have made, but we won't point out and we won't insist or build any other positions in the future to be burdened with it. In other words, let's close this story, we won't forget, but we won't keep our fingers in each other's eye on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4085	Thank you. And the next replica is the esteemed representative of Jasen Mesic. He's pulling? Okay. And then the next word will be given on behalf of the Attorneys' Club of the Living Wall by the distinguished representative Ivan Pernar. Here you go, the pay phone is yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4086	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Well, here's the topic: The new director of HRT, and I remember when I was the acting director, yes. When I was in eastern Sarajevo the other day, I was told a joke about a former RTRS director who died and went to St. Peter's. And when he came to St. Peter's, he told him he could choose whether to heaven or hell and show him what he looked like in heaven. And he looked at what was on the screen in heaven was nice about those meadows, flowers, peace, etc. And then he showed him what he looked like in hell. There was flashing in hell, expensive cars, women's, casinos, one high-legged life, those yachts, etc. And he, and the team of his, means that he's been hanging out with and in this world's life, and they say, ie. He says so, look, it's like beautiful in heaven, but yet he says there's still my team, etc. And says Peter the Holy says yes, here's your choice. And he opens the gates of hell, and he just walks into hell and gets a shovel on his back and pushes him to be a shed of fire, no. And he says to St. Peter, so St. Peter says, "It's not what it looked like on the screen," no. And he says St. Peter we have our RTRS, too. In other words, the images shown on television are unfortunately not real, or we have a problem so-called. Simulated realities where one reality is shown by television, and another is the reality that our citizens experience every day, i.e. the picturesque majority of them. How unobstructed and biased the Croatian TV programme is that during the 25 years of the existence of Croatian television, there was not a single show to discuss, for example, a TV subscription. So, the subject of a TV subscription that interests the public, there is definitely a public interest and about this model of forced collection and about its own height, not once has a single show openly invited the guests to say what they think about the TV subscription. Isn't that sad, ladies and gentlemen? And now he's showing up to us. We are offered a new director of HRT, and in fact I am afraid that this new director will continue as his predecessors. As for your SDP colleague, they blame Milanovic for losing the election, but if you watched HRT before the election, you could see that HRT systematically washed people's brains with HDZ, that every Dnevnik started with that particular party, even someone made a clip in which he compiled every beginning of the journal, you really see that it was brainwashing. And at the same time all their affairs, all the crime simply didn't exist. Says the legend when Hitler won the election that Goebbels came to him and told him now we have TV and radio. He who rules the HRT is ruled by the human minds. And unfortunately, HRT has so far been not used but abused to bring one party to power and ultimately there is no objective picture of reality. In my opinion, the new director of HRT should absolutely do, if there are already four channels of HRT, one of those four channels should hand it over to the opposition. Because we have a situation that out of four channels, all four are arranged by a representative of the government. And what's going on? As the government changes, let the SDP be in power, then HRT is 100% in the service of, say, SDP and then there is no objectivity. I think if one channel were in the hands of the opposition to point out social problems that are not to be pointed at or refused to point out. The new director of HRT, i.e. Doer of duty, none of us have met, at least of us from the Living Wall, nor have seen him, nor has he introduced himself to us here. So we're being put on a choice that we're discussing, and we don't know him. Isn't that the paradox of ladies and gentlemen? It's a paradox to me. I think even the viewers who watch this look at the same farce as they see it because essentially the subject is his choice, and no one knows who he is. Strange, isn't it? And for that reason, it's not to expect us to support him. And the biggest problem that exists with HRT is that except that the government has all four channels, is that certain topics are systematically ignored and censored. Let's just say I've often been able to say here that our government is managed from the outside, and what, HRT is that problem, or that I perceive as a problem, and I believe many citizens, do not devote a single minute. So there's no such thing as a show on HRT that would discuss the consequences of our country's governance by foreign entities. Let me give you a vivid example. When I was speaking here about foreign policy and that America was guilty of chaos in the Middle East and refugee crisis, there were no replicas, and that speech has so far looked at our language of two million people, which means there was a public interest. HRT has not contributed to that at all. And watch what happens, Donald Trump wins the election. And if you look at Donald Trump's views on foreign policy, you'll faint. I look and I see a man all the things I say, a man says so, that's what a man says, the Hillary Clinton or the Obama administration is guilty of the destruction of Libya. We now have a refugee crisis there that we haven't had. Says Donald Trump Bush is to blame for the invasion of Iraq, it was the totally wrong decision you see that ISIL came to power there, etc. And why am I telling you this? You have another example with Donald Trump, he wants to have friendly relations with the Russians, I do not believe he will be a supporter and advocate of the idea of sending Croatian soldiers to the Russian border. And you know what kind of paradoxical situation you're gonna find yourself in? You will find yourself in a situation where all of you from the HDZ who intimidated the citizens with a Russian threat and, like war-scrapers of the 1990s, called for the sending of soldiers to the Russian border and defended the wrong decisions of the U.S. government, you will find yourself in a situation where the American government itself will be fenced from them. And then what are you going to do? Then you'll say and yet you don't have to send soldiers to the Russian border. Why? Because Donald Trump will tell you it's the wrong idea. And then you'll actually see that you don't have your opinions, that you don't advocate those opinions because you really think so, and you're not defending the Obama administration for the chaos that was made in Libya because you really think that the American government was not responsible for these war crimes, but you'll find yourself in a situation where the American government itself says it was a mistake. So you need to be more Catholic than the Pope. And there is no end in that servantship and the half-dozen. And state television, instead of taking an objective approach, means instead of making one thematic show on the topic of the refugee crisis, it completely ignores the problem. You're gonna say what you mean by that? So there's not a single debate on HRT about why refugees suddenly come in large numbers and never come in before. The phenomene of Croatian refugees approaches as if it were an elemental accident. It was like a flood and what now. Ladies and gentlemen, we know who caused the refugee crisis and why it came about and who started those wars that led to it. But there's no discussion about the causes of the HRT problem. Here's to correcting me if I'm wrong. Was there a show on HRT that discussed what led to the escape of the people from the war affected areas, or who caused war in those areas, which party force was responsible for it. The answer is there wasn't, there was no such show. So what, because they keep saying it's a public service. What public service? To whom does the ladies and gentlemen of the HRT serve, Washington, the Croatian Government, whom? Ladies and gentlemen of the HRT is one propaganda wing of the Anglo-Saxon war machine that is ready to convince people that it's in their interest to go to the Russian front tomorrow. But the director of HRT won't go to the Russian front, he won't, as in the time of the Homeland War. Ladies and gentlemen, why is there no objective debate on these and other important issues? So it's a serious matter, sending Croatian soldiers to the Russian border. For example, why there is no debate on HRT. Do they say that's not an important question, I don't know what their excuse is. You have a credit crisis situation, recorded in the state, HRT hasn't made a single show to discuss monetary policy. It means that the question is whether this monetary policy is being implemented in Croatia is good or bad. Correct me if I'm wrong, when was the last time we discussed the role of the central bank as a currency exchange? I don't remember such a show. I remember asking Rohatinski about this issue once, but by accident, it means a phone call and I turned my attention to that subject, but I don't know if there was any such show on HRT and I'm following that subject and I'm curious. Which will say that central issues mean the issue of the role of the CNB does not give any media space at all. The causes of the global refugee crisis are not given any media space. I remember when Dikan Radeljak threw the ring in the show Open, I don't know if you remember where they accused him of still being married to Vlatko Pokos and then he said he wasn't in a relationship, then said the host, I don't know if he was a Hlorka or who but you have the ring and he took the ring and threw it away. These are the things HRT deals with and the serious things HRT doesn't do. And starting from the assumption that the history of teachers of the future and who are those who have chosen the new performer of HRT's duties can only come to the only logical conclusion which is that it continues everything in the old,... According to HDZ, yes, yes, ladies and gentlemen. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So it's too much to explain why we object to this person's election as acting director, but I'm still going to continue in an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4087	Astonishingly, your exposure has caused several replicas. The first is her colleague Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4088	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In your presentation, you said that HRT must be a public service, public television and that it must be available to everyone and be transparent and clear in its messages because it forms a public opinion. And I agree with you that it would be good for one of the programs and the 4th to edit the opposition not to advertise the Living Wall, HSS or some other political option but to talk about real problems, family, agricultural, economy, craftsmen, entrepreneurs, to try and through educational emissions to guide the economy, to talk about why our people who have gone into operational programmes, in pigscaping, milking. When was the last time you saw a debate on this topic between family economies, agronomic professions, economic professions? Such topics are very few on Croatian television and there is often a public opinion that they entered unprepared for these investments and that because they did not know how to run their economies, they are themselves guilty of not being able to repay loans and being completed and blocked and it is not often so. And it is not good that on Croatian television we have commercials in the central journal, most often pharmaceutical industries, and in such a way people are irritated with these many messages as if we are constantly sick and we need all medicines. You started a joke with a joke, so I'll end up with my grandmother telling me a lot, says the diet truth was on TV. Now these days they're buying fruit seedlings, they're planting fruit, so here's one producer told me, imagine saying I'm looking for an African plum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4089	Thank you very much. The honourable representative, Ivan Pernar, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4090	Well, yes, the gentleman mentioned farmers, it is known that there is a central issue that bothers all farmers, which is that imported food is cheaper than domestic and that for this reason they cannot sell their products or have to sell them below the price. And that's why the whole farm's going down. The meat is imported, the milk is imported, everything is imported, so we don't have a problem that we import laptops, here's this flax, for example. which I received from the Croatian Assembly for use. And okay, we don't have that technology, but why are we importing water bottled and selling Hungarian at the November center? Why are we importing agricultural cultures that we can produce ourselves? Of course it's clear that bananas and pineapples are imported, but there are things we shouldn't be importing. And it is clear that we are importing them because the exchange rate policy of the CNB is such that it makes import goods cheaper than domestically by being unreally strong. And now what? Instead of having HRT do a show on the subject of HRT simply ignores the problem, it simply ignores the problem. Until when? Must the last peasant go to waste, must they all? See what happened to the dairy industry? Well, I guess 75% of the producers have gone missing in the last few years. And all you can think of is a campaign to join the EU? It was real, it's not on the honor of anyone who's been doing it. Such an agitprop has not been seen since the age of socialism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4091	Thank you. The next replica will be her respected representative, Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4092	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Pernar, in your debate, you touch a lot of problems whenever you debate, diverse. Many of them you identify very well. You speak one way among other things that sometimes causes laughter, sometimes causes anger as to who, and what I would like to tell you about this debate is that you might consider this idea that the opposition should edit a channel on HRT. Namely, to even consider this concept of policy interference in HRT's work. Experience has shown, because we are talking all the time about how much politics interferes, should we not actually seek that politics is fully withdrawn from editorial policy, namely that the policy that we are dealing with here is not the same as the professional editorial policy that should be dealt with on HRT. In that sense, perhaps, therefore, that is my opinion, of course, here I am putting it on the table to discuss it, perhaps we should consider some depoliticalization and professionalization of the programme rather than this concept that you have presented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4093	Thank you. The honourable representative, Ivan Pernar, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4094	And Mr. Glavasevic, you're going to say you should consider whether politics should interfere with editorial policy. And just ask yourself, who's calling the director of HRT? As long as the policy is chosen by the director of HRT, the programme council is clear, it is clear in which direction the HRT programme will go. What you said should actually be strengthened with one sentence, which is that it should enable direct democracy and given to Croatian subscribers that they choose the director of HRT, means that they all get, each subscriber together with the bill for the HRT ballot and on that ballot all candidates for the director of HRT. To make a public tender and then we can talk about that there is a free choice or depolitisation of HRT. But I repeat everything as long as we are in the Parliament, that is, the majority of Parliament, or who is currently choosing that director. It's too high to talk about depoliticization, so at the end of 25 years of history you have everything clear to you. It means how politicized it is and I think that the proposal to at least one channel to edit the opposition would be I think it would be the right idea and it would be a very good correction that unfortunately doesn't exist right now. Because as she used to fight Evey Sanader, today she's fighting Andrei Plenkovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4095	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Steve Cule. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4096	Dear President, I am in a lot of favour of young colleague Pernar, especially because I was fond of him from the time he supported the tent in Sava 66. When he filmed a colleague of Sincic in the first act, I was the one who stood by and supported you in it. Thank you on behalf of all Croatian defenders for that. Often listening to your discussions, I can't help but agree that you're right. You were right a lot of times. And I support that. The fact that in the media they don't carry everything that you said is what they do from your presentation is a real talk show. It's more important to them how you're dressed, how you said it, how the environment reacted to it, however many times there's truth in it, I repeat. Also, as far as the director of television is concerned, I can't help but notice that you haven't noticed or said here that in the past, the last director Radman favored one party and that they were in the public eye all the time while some others were in prison. And this initiative to set up one television for them, I think let them raise money, let them open it themselves, finance it like the Network. There's plenty of space there, lots of towers, abandoned halls, factories, so let your proposal come true and maybe we'll be there a couple of times a guest. Mr. Pernar, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4097	Thank you. The honourable representative, Ivan Pernar, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4098	Mr. Culey, you've made me happy with your replica, and I must say, I must agree with you. And yes, says the people's "And after Tito Tito" so today we have a situation that as the government changes, the apparent power, I say seemingly because, according to foreign monetary policy, every director of HRT always has the same opinion. But as the government changes, the role of HRT is also changed from Agitprop in HDZ service to Agitprop in the SDP service and vice versa. It is a vicious circle, and topics that are very current, such as the introduction of property tax, for example forced vaccination, i.e. mandatory, legalisation of hemp, I repeat foreign and monetary policies on such topics on HRT there is no debate. I believe that future citizens are already forced to pay for these four HRT channels, and I believe that there is no need for the opposition to do special TV channels. I think it's enough to allow the opposition to edit one of the four already existing channels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4099	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4100	Mr. Pernar, like this. Me, well, let's open up these discussions and topics we don't hear. I'd agree that there's also a HRT in that media blockade, not to discuss critical issues. First of all, I would say that Mr. Pernar is also right and we know that those who run the Croatian state are some who have visited Belgrade before, you are now pilgrimaged to Brussels. But this question, let's say, other issues that are open on the issue of the Middle East, etc. It's a very important thing. Let me hear from Mr. Pernar, who is the largest strategic partner of the United States in the Middle East, who has been given 38 billion dollars in military aid. First question. Secondly, this observation should open both eyes when it comes to history, which is that most people in Croatia know what Holocaust is. No man here has ever heard the word holodome, a hunger that marks every last Saturday what I know in 11 months when in Ukraine 4 and a half to 7 million people were killed, primarily one cosmic mantra we hear nonstop in the Parliament, the media is this one we're not dealing with the past. That means there's no connection to the consequences and causes, that we don't know anything about our history, that we know nothing about nationalization, and that's the key to every problem. And the key word, taboo topic in Croatia is decommunisation that depends on two million hectares of confiscated agricultural land to Croatian farmers, farmers, etc. That's what I'd end up with. I would also say that these discussions are good, they open their eyes to other people because we are not discussing key issues on HRT. Corruption issues, for example, DUUDI, Tax Administration, bank accounts outside, and it must be opened because the wormhole in the attic, in the state, this is corruption as it was until the 1990s and today it is. And these heads sitting here some have stolen more money than all the kings of Saudi Arabia since they were 33.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4101	Thank you. The honourable representative, Ivan Pernar, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4102	Mr. Glasnović, thank you very much for your replica, you have touched a sensitive question, a question that must not be spoken of. They say that in America you can speak against anyone and anyone, even against God. But there's an entity against which you can't talk, and whoever talks about it gets silenced and disappears from the media scene. This country you mentioned, which is a strategic partner of America and which receives a billion dollars of military and any other aid, while in America hundreds of thousands of people live as homeless people by sewers, without health insurance, and picking up garbage as well as in Croatia. That country is called Israel. And yes, our people were constantly learning the Holocaust, but there is one thing that our people don't learn about through HRT, which is that Israel was created at the ethnic cleansing of 750,000 Palestinians in 1948, who were expelled from their homes from today's Israel, who were deprived of all their property, which means citizenship, have no right to citizenship in Israel. And not only that, they are forbidden to return to their homes despite the UN's General Assembly's adoption of Resolution 194 which requires Israel to allow them to return. And that's why the Palestinians are the largest refugee population in the world, bigger than the Syrians. But the suffering of Syrian refugees is constantly spoken of, and Palestinian refugees are never spoken of. And Palestinian refugees are the only ones with whom refugee status is inherited from parents to children. Unfortunately, this is not spoken on HRT because it is not to be spoken of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4103	Thank you very much. And the last replica is finally that of the esteemed Ivan Lovrinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4104	Agent Pernar, I just got one question from the citizens asking me to ask you and I have to do it as an agent. The question is, I ask you, is it common, not to say normally that very often the impact on economic comments is provided by macro-economies working in banks, meaning from banks and asking a man specifically and those who have approved loans related to the Swiss franc that they have not spoken of it, and they appear in prime terms, is it not a covert marketing, practical promotion of banks without payment of money etc. So here I would ask you, the other day we had a very quality debate here about the CNB, and we agreed a lot, only that means I have to admit from the HDZ that I didn't hear a single comment on the report on financial stability and monetary policy, MOST made certain remarks, so I was in a dilemma about how it would end up. But these days we've seen a whole series of certain shows about the CNB the governor speaks, etc., while the people who talked about it are gone. So we have a kind of marginalization by ok, we can't tell private televisions, so we can't do this, but the public service doesn't talk about it. Here's what you think of those two things?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4105	Thank you very much. The honourable representative, Ivan Pernar, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4106	Well, here's Mr. Lovrinović, you hit the central issue again. However, no wonder, the former HRT director was also a member of HYPO's Supervisory Board. So the SDP put the head of the HRT of a man who's on the board of directors of a private bank. And now what? What kind of policy was the editorial represented by Goran Radman on HRT, which system he was protecting there, what ideas he was protecting, what kind of people were getting media space on HRT? We from the Living Wall didn't win, but people were given bank analysts, and basically the expression of will is allowed on HRT only in the form of a farce. And why is that? Because when it comes to a subject like a financial system, only people who think in the same way are invited to the show. So even when you sometimes allow a "debate on ticklish topics" everyone like a repeater repeats the same story. And so I ask if HRT is public television? Does it serve the interests of citizens or serve the interests of certain stakeholders? According to the Croatian authorities, HRT serves only interested groups and, in my view, it should cancel the TV subscription because HRT is not public television, but television in the service of the party in power that deals and advocates topics that are of interest to the ruling structures, rather than to the Croatian public, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4107	Thank you. The next and last will take part in the debate individually, again respected Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4108	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's a great honor to have the opportunity to speak here on the subject of HRT. And why is that? Because HRT wouldn't let me talk. But it's not only that he didn't let me speak but he didn't let anyone who opposed their vision of Croatia and the world speak. Their vision of Croatia and the world. Whoever thought differently did not get media space, regardless of what Professor Lovrinovic had a deep disagreement with the monetary policy that has been going on for the past 22 years, whether it was Mr. Glasovic, who mentioned the murder of 4.5 million Ukrainians under Stalin. But what's going on? Ladies and gentlemen, we can't drive food tomorrow, and given the state of our agriculture, that same nightmare would have hit us. Unfortunately. Isn't that shocking? So our country is in a totally dependent position, our own food does not produce, imports of water, importing bills, so Croatian kuna bills we import from Germany. Here's a $200 bill, OeBS Austria. So water is not worth producing, money is not paid for products in Croatia or it is cheaper when imported. Ladies and gentlemen, why doesn't this madness end? Why there is no public debate on these issues and why, of course, it is known why, because if we were to talk about it, if we were to point out that, then the public would understand where the main problem is. And right now, thanks to this propaganda machine with Prisavia, the public is still living in divisions from the past, unaware of what the future leads us to the furniture currently led by HDZ. This future, or our present, is presented to us as cheerful and cheerful, but when you look at the average life of a Croatian citizen who does not know where he will pay the bills, who does not know where he will pay the loans, who does not know how he will find a job clearly that HRT does not paint that picture. So you have a situation where nearly 200,000 people have left our country. Is that a serious problem? Is it a serious problem that people are leaving our country today while I'm saying this? Why is there no public debate on national television? Why is there no public debate on national television? Why is this problem not perceived on HRT or who is not in the interest of talking about it? When was the last debate on HRT about digging through containers and collecting bottles? These topics, and this is a serious problem because thousands of citizens have never been on the agenda of the HRT, nor have a solution been sought. And why is that? Because the humiliation of the citizens of HRT has been accepted for granted. Ladies and gentlemen, how long until we close our eyes? How long are we gonna be blind? And until when will we allow a small group of people to manipulate 4 million people and poison media space like Marijan Hanžekovic masters and reign in media space and that ultimately his vision of Croatia is also the vision of HRT? Take care of this absurd, Marijan Hanžekovic is a man who is hated in the Croatian public, a Mason, and he is pushing for the execution today for HRT, and today he is pushing for HRT, creating millions on the job. Those of us who opposed it could never get space on HRT, never. Why? Why could the theme of forced charge models on HRT never come to the HRT agenda? Because HRT lays corruption and nepotism on all editorial grounds, unfortunately. The only objective, or relatively objective thing on HRT is the weather forecast, is the weather forecast of ladies and gentlemen. My sincere hope that one day HRT will become what it should be and that's public television in the public service. And if we can all agree that she is currently not public television in the service of the public but an instrument in the hands of the elite who, through and under the quotes of public television, advocates his interests, attitudes, views and visions, why not ask the question of abolishing the TV subscription? If HTV represents the interests of the US government, private banks and parties in power, then why are these three groups not the ones financing HRT? If the U.S. government directly financed HRT, along with the banks of private ones whose interests HRT also protects, performers like Hanžekovic, we could put them in there, and so the parties in power then we could say, and okay, they're paying for it, and according to that, the program goes on to them. But we have a situation where citizens are forced to pay for their own brainwashing, their own indoctrination with the wrong attitudes. Our citizens are victims of unprecedented media propaganda and the result of the election tells you all about it. We know who led Croatia to the edge of the sink, which two parties are most responsible for this. But from the election cycle to the election cycle, the two parties regularly win elections. It's not the citizens' fault. It's HRT. Unfortunately, I am afraid that the new director, or new V.D. The director of HRT has no intention of asking this question, i.e. to question this and such editorial policy, a programme policy which, by all means, converts HRT, makes HRT everything but public television. And I don't know why it's even called public television, nor does the public choose an editor, i.e. The director of HRT, nor the HRT deals with important and crucial topics, nor is it objective. So it's literally a propaganda channel where citizens finance their own destruction with their own money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-11-0.u4109	I'd like to thank Agent Pernar, and I'd like to conclude the debate. The next item is the Proposal for a decision to appoint the acting director of Croatian Radio Television. The proposal is proposed by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to appoint the acting director of Croatian Radio Television. Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes for 115, 4 were abstentions and 4 against a decision on the appointment of the director-in-chief of Croatian Radio Television in the text as proposed by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. Dear MPs and MPs end this day, as the next Friday is the day of the memory of Vukovar we will not be sitting to allow MPs to go to Vukovar. That is why we will continue the session's work on Tuesday, November 15th at 9.30 p.m. with a package of tax laws. I'm asking the working bodies to hold their sessions on Monday so we can work uninterrupted on Tuesday. I welcome you and I want a nice weekend. Thank you. Session adjourned at 12:30.
