ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u6998	I'm looking outside the MOST club for a 10-minute break because the health ministry has started to amend the rule on protection against electromagnetic fields, which also affects what's most important is the setting up of base stations, and on behalf of that, I'd turn to the public to get to know the public about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u6999	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u7000	I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the HNS Club. The subject is the Law on Real estate tax, measures or reforms proposed. We'd like to talk about it a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u7001	Thank you. The Honorable Representative of Stipe Petrina.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u7002	Thank you. I am looking for a break and I am asking for the recall of the prime minister and part of the government to cover up the Transatlantic Trade Investment Partnership contract, which has been kept secret by the Parliament and MPs in the Croatian Parliament, that is, the arrival of Monsanto in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u7003	I didn't quite get it, but fine. So, do we have any other clubs? We don't. Thank you very much. Then we'll do it. It's 9.35. At 9.45, we'd meet again. Thank you. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u7005	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the Honorable Minister, fellow MPs and MPs. This is where I want to inform you, you and the entire Croatian public, that the Ministry of Health has begun to amend the Regulations on protection against electromagnetic radiation, i.e. electromagnetic fields. We know what this problem is in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, this has been talked about, both the associations and individuals in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia and here in Parliament. In his commission for making him, the minister appointed teleoperate representatives, president of the Association of Movement Communications of Croatia whose goal, as the website says, is to promote financial successful mobile communications. In this way, teleoperators are allowed to operate the rules by which they will carry out their commercial activities and impose their private interests on public interests as well as on the boredom of public interests. It would be normal for the Ministry of Health to prepare a proposal for a regulation that will not suit teleopers as has been the case so far. Teleoperators should only make their proposals and comments in an open and transparent public debate as well as anyone else who is required under this Regulation. The health ministry should not issue any new permit for the base station if the teleoper has no agreement of local self-government for its location. Such provisions would likely be found in the new regulation that teleopers do not participate in its preparation and we are all here together to prevent this from being a state of boredom. The Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning has caused a riot that needs to be corrected urgently and thoroughly by removing building permits for the antenna pillars of the base stations in 2009. As citizens are charged with building permits for sheds and the closure of balconies, teleopers are allowed to set up plants that generate profits without having to establish a building permit or consent of local, regional self-government or even the consent of neighbours. They have no such benefits anywhere in Europe. They didn't have any in Croatia when they entered the market. For a few years, they worked on similar regulations in other countries, and then someone gave them the privilege of not requiring a building permit. The motives should be reviewed as in many other cases by those who have done so and raised the question of their responsibility which they have done to the harm of the Republic of Croatia and for the benefit of foreign teleoperators. The fact is that in us politicians who did not protect the public interest of the citizens who paid them but protected the private interests of foreign capital and carried out the issue of national interests during their activities. This practice finally needs to be stopped in Croatia. Under the Emergency Regulation on simple structures, antenna pillars on the ground and on roofs should be excluded and automatic legalisation of the found state should be prevented. Operators should be set a time limit within which they must provide agreement of local self-government for existing locations or a replacement location shall be agreed with local administration. Furthermore, in the Regulation on the criteria for the development of electronic communications infrastructure adopted by the former Government, provisions should be rejected so that the antennae acceptances placed on existing buildings are not planned in the documents of the business arrangement. This is not the way to legalise urban space degradation should be legalized. Operators will likely strongly oppose these changes because they will have to give up the huge profits they have earned in Croatia for their foreign owners and investments that will correct the existing situation. It is time to finally pass in Croatia the law by which teleopers operate in both their countries and other countries. It is time for Croatian citizens to get rights, while teleopers are obliged to respond to local base stations that will provide a quality mobile network, while taking care of health protection, environmental impact and landscapes and aesthetic criteria. In the end, I must say, they robbed our tele-infrastructure paid for by our citizens and the Most Independent Lists will not allow them to continue robbing Croatian citizens but only ask to behave as they behave in their own countries, Austria, Germany and Sweden. And this will all be directed to the Commission and the Minister of Health and Construction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u7006	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS club of liberal Democrats, the next one will speak for the distinguished representative Anka Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u7007	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues are subject to the Real Estate Tax Act. So in the convergence map, we had the opportunity to read that the Real estate tax law would be introduced into two steps. The first step is 1.01.2018 and the second step is 2020. The HNS had an absolutely clear view of the law when it was participating in the government in the past term. He has the same clear attitude today. These laws scare the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Croatian citizens did not save in shares during their time, did not save in gold, did not save in diamonds, they were saving in real estate. They've been saving up in apartments, there's not one family, and I believe there's one of you who, amongst us, is sitting here who, apart from his own apartment or the property he lives in, doesn't have any other real estate that he occasionally lives in that I don't want to say cottage. And not to say that outside of Zagreb it was also common to buy an apartment in Zagreb for students. We said clearly then, I am using this opportunity because it is absolutely time to once again say the point is to introduce the Law on Property, so the property that citizens have. But the same is true when this law introduces meaning and some limitations and some censorships like some other countries have. In fact, France has a limit of 700 thousand kuna, or 100 thousand euros in real estate, or property that you have freed from payments, only above that goes. So when we look at and look at patterns in some other countries, we need to look at both criteria and conditions. It is equally announced that all other taxes will be abolished and that the municipal fee will be converted into a real estate tax. What you need to know from 555 municipalities, 556 is the City of Zagreb, 15 municipalities in the Republic of Croatia do not charge a municipal fee at all, they have no registered real estate and no municipal fee is charged in these municipalities at all. Does this mean that citizens who have real estate there won't pay taxes if we do? It probably does. The same way when you do an analysis of the municipalities then your share of municipal fees in the municipality budget is about 13 to 15% if it's 13 to 15% that's the main one. So everything that's less than that shows that it's not a good analysis done. When we were in power to participate as a coalition partner, we clearly said: first and foremost we cannot tax real estate, it must be property law, property tax law. Secondly, there should be an appropriate moment to introduce such a law. Third, in order to do that, you have to have a zero state. We've got to be honest, and we don't. Not that we don't have a fixed cadastre and grantovnica in this case is also a property record quite enough zero state. There is no one here who has not been introduced and who has not had the opportunity to see the municipality of Vir and a large amount of illegally built objects on the municipality of Vir. The Vir Municipality decided on a project just three or four years ago and recorded all of its properties whether they were legal or illegal, and in comparison, it took a decision on the municipal compensation, with which the municipal fee was tripled for a simple reason, we need to know our good practices no one even pays the communal fee until it was recorded, as well if they tried to show some smaller squares and try. So this decision to make a municipal fee from 1.1.2018 without good analysis and without good zero tax status is certainly not a good decision, is it going to happen that those who are competent, who have recorded their properties, who take care of them will also be paying taxes and those who do not continue to pay taxes. Equally should not go far, you should look at the experience of Slovenia. For 10 years, Slovenia introduced a tax, after 10 years their law fell in the Constitutional Court and they had 2 million complaints about solutions. Because, of course, every one that was wrongly made, the solution that was laid out was complained. And likewise, after it is recorded and we know what real estate is another big deal, the job of how to evaluate these properties because, of course, real estate can be estimated by its position, by its own building value, by its own useful value, and that proposal that I saw once again goes that those who maintained their property, who were good masters would pay more taxes than those who did not keep their property. Therefore, the CNS had a clear attitude when it was in power and has a clear attitude today. Make a good analysis, make a good zero state and then when it comes to new taxes then it's about property taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u7008	Thank you very much. And the last one will be on behalf of the HSU club Stipe Petrina. Dear Representative Stipe Petrina, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u7009	Your Honor, I thank you. I would like to launch the prime minister's impeachment for the reason that the prime minister of this day, Prime Minister Oreshkovic, has announced this day just a few weeks ago that the government intends to sell 10,000 hectares of land in Slavonia. When asked who and for what reasons the mysterious answer was to the rich Arab. But we know that it is ready to bring Monsanto to Croatia, to introduce GMO products in Croatia. We know that the policy led by this and the last government is aimed only at impoverishing the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to make them as vulnerable as possible. We know Slavonia is moving out, we know that Bania, Kordun, Lika is moving out to buy the Croatian country as cheap as possible. So it is clear that these 10,000 hectares will be the first introduction to bringing in multinational companies dealing with GMO production. Namely, we have not yet found out whether Mr. Oreshkovic came here to Croatia to install new GMO products, sell water, and we have seen that there are already 54 companies being sold for chipping and doing as a colleague of the property tax. None of us know here what lies in the Transatlantic Trade Investment Partnership contracts, which is now on the agenda of the European Commission and of the Council of Europe. Nobody knows that. Politicians in Croatia and Europe clearly hide it from citizens. In fact, the question arises as to what the Croatian Government's position is on the contract for transatlantic trade, investment partnerships that have not been fully published so far and their complete content has been hidden from the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Why do these contracts be lobbyed by those who have been paid by companies, specifically by... So where does the prime minister come from, from Coca-Cola and others who have an interest in getting GMOs into Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know if you're aware that Monsanto as a multinational company has already found models to avoid the law of the European Union and patent, watch this, very dangerously, patent seed of indigenous varieties. This means, elaborated on the case of Canada, that if any patented seed owned and owned by Monsant falls to any country on the basis of a ruling by the Supreme Court of Canada, the country becomes owned by the multinational company. There's a clear danger behind these contracts that we, as Parliamentarians, have nothing to do with. Even the president of the country once proved that it would come anyway and that the contracts would be signed by the end of the year. For these reasons, those who do not want to turn Croatia into a part of the slaves that do not want Croatian citizens to be poisoned are organized protests 21.05. It is a protest against Monsant, multinational companies that will be held in Osijek on the square of Ante Starcevic and in Zagreb in the square of Josip Ban Jelačić. So I invite you all to join us because we're not even aware of what's going to happen to indigenous varieties, what's going to happen and if we can even plant in our gardens and if we can even produce food for ourselves. Don't forget that a part of the United States of America has already imposed a ban on collecting rainwater, that German Bundestag has already passed the law that water is no longer public good, so it has brought us down below animal levels. That's what's gonna happen to us. And let's not forget that growing pomidors, potatoes, cabbages in their gardens will later be treated the same as growing today some hallucinogenic plants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u7010	Thank you very much. Comrade Petrina, you have spoken of Monstant and the sale of water and transatlantic investment negotiations, but I would like to advise you, given that you have begun to wish to recall the Prime Minister, you can, of course, do so on the basis of Article 125 of our Rules of Procedure if you collect 1/5 of the total number of MPs in the Parliament. Otherwise, these are, of course, the empty words and the declarative form that you have spoken. Well, thank you very much. We can move on to our agenda. And following what you have and in front of you, the first point is: - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Framework Loan Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe Development Bank for the Flood Protection Project, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 31; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You've received the material into the boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall therefore unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate on this proposal was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received their reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Here's the esteemed Deputy Minister of Agriculture Mr. Tugomir Majdak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8832	Thank you, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, respected parliamentary representatives, respected parliamentary representatives. Here is the phenomenon of an increasingly frequent and more devastating flood in Croatia, including a catastrophic flood in May 2014 that we were all witnessing is causing great damage and far-reaching consequences not only for the directly affected population, private and public property, economic activity, cultural heritage and the environment, but also for the wider community and the national economy. As a result, ever more and more frequent flood damages prove a priority and socially justified need for short- and long-term investment programmes to reduce the risk of floods in the Republic of Croatia. The framework loan agreement for the Flood Protection Project was signed in Paris and Zagreb in September 2015 by the Vice Governor of the Development Bank of the Council of Europe CEBA and Minister of Finance of the Republic of Croatia. As national funds are far below the necessary targets and strategic and planning documents of the Republic of Croatia and the objectives of Directive 60/2007 EC, the European Parliament and the Council of 23 October 2007 on the assessment and management of flood risks. A flood protection project co-financed by the Council of Europe Development Bank provides for investments in flood protection systems that will cover 25 sub-projects in 15 priority plums or systems according to the indicative list and are expected to carry out a full set of construction and hydrotechnical works with a view to protecting against harmful water operations. The available own resources of the Croatian Waters for the construction of a flood protection system, i.e. water contribution and water control compensation under the Water Economy Financing Act, are not sufficient for all projects, given the priorities of investments in flood defence systems. Also, according to the analyses, available national funds and funds from EU funds, planned funds within the operational competitiveness programme, the 2014-20 year cohesion amounted to 150m euros. They are not nearly enough to implement the investment dynamics at a level of around 400, 500 million kuna per year drawn by the planning documents, which are a water management strategy and a multi-annual programme for the installation of regulatory and protective water structures and mellioration buildings for the period up to 2038. The cost-benefit analysis found that the use of the proposed loan of the Council of Europe Development Bank of 40 million euros for the period 2016-2018 was economically justified, in particular under the most recent conditions of use and repayment of loans. The example is a 1m-euro gift from the quality prepared project and proven capacity for the implementation of users, which is this case of Croatian water where the current interest rate for the first tranche is 0%. Croatia's water funds co-finance the project with 50% and total project value is 80m euros. The flood protection project includes two components, the first component is investments in flood protection systems and concerns the design, construction and supervision of 74.3m euros and the second component through institutional strengthening within equipment, technical assistance and training worth 5.7m euros. The project is implemented over a period of 4 years, meaning the period from 2015-2018 by extending loans into three equal annual tranches of 13, 333 million euros per year and beyond, at year level over 101, million kuna in the period 2016-2018. Accordingly, the loan in question is expected to be fully allocated to the eligible expenditure of individual sub-projects by 31 December 2018. The term of repayment of the loan is indicative of 9 years without delay and the payment of the loan is a burden on Croatian waters and replacement fees for special water contribution and water treatment fees. The project will be implemented by Croatia's waters through a separate set-up unit for the implementation of the water protection project, financed by CEB loans and EU funds. The Ministry of Agriculture will oversee the implementation of the project in particular in the part of the use of the CEB loan and reporting in its implementation. Therefore, the final adoption of this law will confirm the subject matter of the loan framework for the flood protection project, notably stressing the significant positive, social economic impact of the project that will be faster achieved in the water management strategy as well as the flood risk management directive and the most important way to reduce flood risks for the population, material property, economic activity and cultural goods and improve the overall flood protection system. Within the framework of the law, you have an indicative list of projects that are at the level of various phases of design and will be realised within the framework of the building permit, at the level of the building permit. Here, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8833	Thank you very much. We have one replica, that distinguished representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8834	Thank you very much. Mr. Deputy, surely why the flood was one of the most important topics, as you said in 2014 it was visible what the result of the flood was. The fact that Croatia's waters have its income from citizens, legal entities in the matter of groundwater, maintenance. And of course we should also support these EU projects. However, you mention that there is no strategy that there are many of these things that are very important, so I am interested in the collected money of our citizens as far as it goes to officials and other things within Croatian waters and how much protection from floods and other obligations of Croatian waters are in order to protect the areas where our citizens live and preserve their goods. I'm just curious about that. Whether there are too many officials or "people who do not serve anything" except that they are fostered and how much that amount is directed at the protection itself, which is why citizens pay for it from floods and canal cleaning and other things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8835	Thank you. The Honorable Deputy Minister of Agriculture will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8836	Here's a thank you for asking. Here's Mr. Honorable Representative Bull. You said there is no strategy, there is a water management strategy as well as a flood risk management directive, so that this strategy is being implemented and this loan will be implemented. And on the second question, under the financial plan of the Croatian Waters we can deliver to you but it is generally known to mean under other incomes, total revenues are at the level of 3 billion kuna, 3.1 billion kuna means and individual items can be delivered individually to you as individual items and to which they are intended. So, the original income, revenues from the state budget and other revenues means in three divisions the total amount of kuna 3.1 billion means the total financial plan of the Croatian Waters for this year 2016. I repeat, once again, the Water Management Strategy, the Flood Risk Assessment Directive as well as the Strategy and the multiannual Programme for the Construction of Regulatory Protection Water Construction and Melioration Buildings for the total period until 2038.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8837	Thank you very much. Now I'd like to ask if the committee's rapporteurs would like to take the floor? No, I don't. Others don't either. Nobody does. Okay. Then I'm opening a debate. And here's the first one on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club to speak to distinguished representative Ivan Radic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8838	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is laid down for the Croatian Parliament to confirm international agreements requiring the adoption or amendment of existing laws. The proposal for a law confirming the loan framework agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe Development Bank for a flood protection project is exactly the kind of international agreement we are discussing today. However, the very provisions of that contract, the Framework Loan Treaty, given the way in which international contracts are confirmed, cannot be changed here, but we can only support or not support the proposed law on the confirmation of that contract. The Republic of Croatia submitted a request to the Council of Europe for loan approval on 27 August 2014, so almost 2 years ago. The loan contract was signed on 2 September 2015 in Paris and 15 September 2015 in Zagreb, and the main and exclusive purpose is to finance the flood protection project. The project plans to improve and restore the existing system and protection from floods on priority river basins in the Republic of Croatia, and all according to the Water Management Strategy and the multiannual programme for the construction of regulatory and water protection structures and meliorations buildings. The primary beneficiary of this project is the population at risk of flooding. The total value of the flood protection project was estimated at 80 million euros, and the loan framework agreement puts Croatia at the disposal of a cash amount of 40 million euros, with the Council of Europe's Development Bank granting us a gift in the form of interest subsidies of 1 million euros. So half of the project's value is financed by the Loan Treaty, and the other half of the project's value will be secured from the original revenues of Croatian Waters. The loan should be withdrawn from the Council of Europe Development Bank in the period from 2016 to 2018 with a repayment period of up to 2027, i.e. over a period of 9 years. The law on the confirmation of the loan framework agreement sets out in detail all terms of the contract, the purpose of the contract, the financial conditions, the implementation of the project, the monitoring of the project, and the payment of the debt. The loan should be available for use as soon as the Loan Framework Agreement enters into force, which is, therefore, after the Croatian Parliament has confirmed it. In addition, there is a full description of the flood protection project which defines the basic area of its action in order to prevent natural and ecological disasters. The project's planned works are divided into two components, and this is the first component of the project's planned work on flood defence systems, which will cover numerous construction and hydrotechnical works aimed at halting the rapid erosion of the riverbank, reshaping and correcting the riverbeds through excavations, sifting and equating profiles, strengthening river basins and increasing water flow stability. The second component refers to institutional strengthening in which the planned funds plan to be used to improve operational flood risk management and direct implementation of flood protection measures through targeted capacity-building measures. In addition, what contributes to the adoption of this law is predicting that the flood protection project will receive considerable social benefits as the vulnerable population will receive more quality and effective protection from the development effects of floods, and an improved system will be able to prevent damage to property, infrastructure and cultural goods, and interference with economic activity in areas that are currently not adequately protected from flood risks. At its meeting, held on 19 April 2016 at its 6th session, the legislative committee of the Croatian Parliament submitted a draft law in the capacity of the home working body and unanimously supported it and had no objection to the text of the final draft of the law. Further to all the above mentioned Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the proposal for a law confirming the loan framework agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe Development Bank for a flood protection project with the final draft of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8839	Thank you very much. We have one replica of distinguished representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8840	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, fellow Radić, you've presented everything well and this project is actually extremely valuable and I'm sure it will be used effectively in protecting against the floods. However, I can't, I didn't realize exactly whether there were any of these activities that were both institutional and institutional fortifications, as well as protection against the erosion of the troughs of our rivers as well as the canals that connect them, as well as those in which the accumulations were not noticed that somewhere it was necessary and necessary to clean up the troughs of our rivers from piles that are already two and a few meters high, which are banned for environmental protection, because of the various birds of singers and other animals living in such a way that they still seem to be our river parks that are a little further and further protected. And our riverbeds actually turn and water streams, disrupt and erod the shores. I think that in these contracts and those funds should be used to clean up the troughs, which would also achieve the airworthiness of our river routes that are actually abandoned and everything that is actually in the European conventions is left behind and signed.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8841	Thank you. Next, on behalf of the SDP club, the distinguished representative of Tihomir Jakovina will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8842	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Parliament, the honored legislators, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. The Council of Europe Development Bank or CEB is the oldest international financial institution in Europe, founded in '56. on the Council of Europe's initiative. The main objective of the action of the CEB is to promote the principle of the Council of Europe through the financing of social projects and programmes in the area of strengthening social integration, environmental management, public infrastructure support and social support for micro, macro and medium-sized economies in order to preserve and create sustainable jobs. Since July '97. The Republic of Croatia is a member of the CEB and has since funded a number of public projects in the Republic of Croatia, a total of around 650m euros. Of these, 248m euros went to our HBOR development bank to encourage micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and the amount of nearly 400m euros was to direct loans from the Republic of Croatia to finance projects for the reconstruction of health infrastructure, health institutions, schools or the construction and restoration of schools, projects for the housing of exiles and refugees, restoration and revitalisation of cultural heritage, projects for the construction of municipal and social infrastructure on Croatian islands, and projects for the financing of the water-communal economy. The law that is ahead of us, the Law on the Confirmation of the Framework Loan Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe Development Bank for the Flood Protection Project is, in fact, the continuation of good practice and by the size and importance of the loan itself brings a lot of good water economy to the Republic of Croatia, and in some ways, it is the conclusion of a job that is very quality, a complex and long process carried out by the previous Government of Zoran Milanovic. Only as a reminder of the request for loan approval as we heard today was submitted in August 2014. In September 2014, the CEB Administrative Council approved the request. After that, almost a year of very complex negotiations and setting out all the specifics of the loan contract in question. At the 250th session of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in September 2015, we decide to initiate the procedure for the conclusion of a framework loan agreement and, as we heard in September, the loan was signed by the Deputy Governor of CEB, or the Minister of Finance of the previous colleague, Lalovac. It is a loan which would finance a flood protection project that will improve, restore and upgrade the existing flood protection system to reduce flood risks throughout the Republic of Croatia and achieve a higher level of protection of the population on priority river basins. The project will have a great positive socio-economic impact by preventing damage to property and infrastructure, cultural goods and disruptions of economic activity in areas that are currently not covered or not sufficiently covered and protected from flood risks. The secondary benefits that some sub-projects bring to the population should also be taken into account, i.e. the provision of drinking water or the reduction of interruptions in the supply of the population in nearby areas and the provision of water for irrigation in dry areas. The project will consist of the implementation of 25 large infrastructure projects within 15 plums of systems identified as priorities for the needs of the project. It's somewhere around 93% of the planned funds or 74.3m euros. And institutional reinforcement components of 7% or nearly 5.7m euros. 25 planned infrastructure projects which form an integral part of this contract are defined on the basis of the Water Management Strategy and the multiannual programme for the construction of regulatory water protection structures and meliorations buildings. As we heard or partly heard in the introduction of the project's proposals, the main elements of the project are the value of the project itself, about 80 million euros, of which... the financing of 40 million or 50% of loans to CEB and other original revenue from Croatian waters. [[You don't understand.]] The period of implementation of the project 2015-2018, borrowed by the Republic of Croatia through the Ministry of Finance. The return is nine years without a start. The project promoter is the Ministry of Agriculture and the implementation of the project is Croatian Water, the Project Implementation Unit. Based on the expected major social impact of the project and the firm institutional framework in the implementation of the CEB Administrative Council project, it approved a donation in the form of a one-million-euro interest subsidy. The basic feature of the loan is that there are no regular fees, a three-year period, an interest rate of 0.26% as a interest reference subsidy, counting this one-million-euro gift. The indicative payment deadline for each tranche is 9 years without a start. The total cost of interest would be around 520 thousand euros or would mean slightly more than 4 million kuna. The loan funds will be available for use immediately after the Framework Loan Agreement enters into force, i.e. after this law in this House I hope unanimously and I am sure that we will unanimously support it. This law has been sent to the procedure under an emergency procedure which we support for the reasons set out in points 2 and 3 of this proposal and the fact that the entry into force of the Framework Loan Treaty is a condition for the withdrawal of loan funds and it must be confirmed in the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. This part of my debate actually confirms the thesis on the positive completion of a long and complex process carried out by the previous government and for which we could at least hear a confession from the promoter if we do not already thank. And on behalf of the SDP club, I show my support for this law. On the other hand, this is actually just the beginning of the implementation of very demanding projects, for which it is fully responsible for the project promoter of the Ministry of Agriculture through monitoring and reporting on implementation and the body for implementation of the project unit within Croatian Waters. In addition to sincere wishes for all planned projects to be implemented during the planned three-year period, I must show some concern and ask the legislator of the law I expect to receive the decident answers, whether the Ministry of Agriculture plans to replace some sub-projects listed in the list, add one of the other sub-projects, or add other sub-projects listed in the multiannual programme for the construction of water regulation. Furthermore, for which number of projects or sub-projects it is necessary to carry out an environmental impact assessment in accordance with the environmental policy and whether the studies are in the works, or whether those studies are completed? If not, will before the proposed part of the loan for such sub-projects be requested by the borrower whether the project implementation body under the supervision of the promoter will request the prior approval of the CEB as required if we do not have the complete documentation and we submit the request. And what is perhaps most important, to which I have the most observations as to how many of these 25 infrastructure projects have been fully carried out in relation to project technical documentation, to obtaining permits and resolving property legal relations, i.e. the final question of whether the projects in question have been in place since September of last year, since we knew that we have secured funds, have preparations and public tenders already been made so that the funds could be launched as soon as possible? Why am I saying this? I say because we have seen that the deadline for implementation of the project is 2015-2018, we are almost in the middle of 2016, all those who know how and what the Public Procurement Act is looking for know how long this is going on and unfortunately I am afraid that this construction year is almost completely lost, i.e. this law I expected to have on the benches of this Parliament in the debate at least two months ago. Once again, full support for this law. It will also be an additional incentive to the economy or low-building and to all those working in the water economy sector. I hope to get a positive answer to most of these questions. And for the end of one suggestion or request, unfortunately fellow Roma Minister of Resort is not here, but I will ask you, Deputy Vice-President, to the Committee on Agriculture, please in future, that the Minister or you will come. It was a practice back four years. On the one hand, it is also a matter of giving recognition to the importance of the parent committee and, on the other hand, to protect its authority by employees and your colleagues and colleagues who represent or defend the bill's proposals on the committee itself from unargumented, unethical and rude verbal attacks that they experience on the committee itself even if it comes from your coalition partners. I think it's incorrect for your closest associates, and I expect, in fact, to be on the parent board in the future, either a minister or you as a deputy, and to protect your closest associates with your authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8843	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. The first is the distinguished representative of Rose Vukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8844	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, listening to a fellow parliamentary representative on quality work that was done during a period that was behind us I couldn't help myself. So how good a job it was is said and the consequences of the disaster that Slavonia, or Posavina, experienced. I have to take the opportunity to ask a question to the former minister who's actually responsible for guessing animals, or not saving the same animals for three days. So for three days, the animals stood in the water to the door with a sniff over their heads and waited for death. Those who didn't die then died from the refrigeration in that icy water. A completely missed rescue policy may have saved a fifth of these animals and had been regressed in time and could only have approached the problem differently, perhaps even all these animals. I am also interested in whether the former minister is aware that many farmers or cattle farmers in the area have not yet received compensation for the dead herds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8845	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative of Tihomir Jakovina will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8846	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, if you had made a little more effort in the matter of responsibility for the way in which the crisis and the natural disasters work, then you would have seen the way it works and whose responsibility it is. Croatian waters as a public institution dealing with the protection against harmful activities of water are almost 24 hours before the break of the embankment and we are talking about the millenium water supply and the highest waterways of the Sava River that have ever been reported and declared a state of emergency. After that, it is the crisis headquarters which commands or leads the mayor from the unit of the regional administration that has to evacuate the population, declare measures and do all that should be done in such cases. So for almost 24 hours, there was a time before the break of the embankment to react and to reduce the possibility or reduce to a minimum the possibility and suffering of people, but also the mechanisms of property and livestock funds. After the cracks in Gunja, i.e. in Rajjev Selo and in Račenovci, the system has done its utmost to provide, evacuate and rescue and care for the animals that were under the floods. We're talking about 400 farms across Vukovar-Srijem and Osijek-Baranja County, which were replacement farms and that received that cattle, where we provided free veterinary care, where we provided free food and all of it for the next few months until we qualified these people's economic facilities after the flood to get that cattle fund back. Through the Rural Development Programme, we have opened up a measure where those who have suffered huge losses where the death and drowning of cattle themselves occur so that they can obtain a new stock so that the system has done its utmost and the resolution minister, whether the former or this cannot affect the climate, can't affect the rainfall, can't affect the millennium floods that occur, only by investing in such facilities and preventing things that as much as we're prepared, we can actually reduce the potential of such major damages in the economy... But for the second time, consider the responsibility of all and from units of local self-government to regional crisis stations and others before calling for executive power. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8847	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8848	I would agree with my colleague, Jakovina, that this is a very important topic and that it should be supported, especially in terms of flood protection, this project and this co-financing. However, when we talk about floods it is a much more serious thing and I must admit that here I agree with my colleague Vukovac who said that in the event of an elemental accident, all bodies, state authorities did not react without spotting and that I can testify to what the whole of Croatia was then, in fact, citizens self-initiatedly organised and collected from cattle food to various different rubber boats to save the animals that are in the area. Unfortunately, many died and shouldn't have. So there's no big excuse. The fact is that I have appointed a deputy minister, and I have to tell you, because you know better matter, Croatian waters have their own incomes paid to them by citizens and legal entities, natural and legal persons. How much money goes to cover against floods, what's very important and canal cleaning and how much to the clerks? Is it... But I'm interested in that percentage, that's what you should know, that's the first thing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as environmentalism is concerned, I absolutely believe that this terrible guide to the canals of lateral and others, has been taking care so that I can testify in my Sinj, Cetinski region, that an open sewer that goes through the middle of the city goes to the lateral channels of the Sinjske polje and goes to Cetina which is drinking water and polluting, means from that water, it means hundreds of thousands of people are using it, not only from the Cetin region but also the coast, the Split swimming pool, but it's not protected and you can testify about it, and I wrote it to you personally. For you and the Ministry and Croatian waters, of course, I don't know how much you're familiar with it, and it's very important for our citizens to pay for it. And it is very important to say that flood services have not done their best work and that they need to learn from mistakes. That would be a lot more correct than you would be if you were Mrs. Vukovac or Missy basically saying she didn't know the matter. I think she knows matter very well because she lives and deals with what she does in her life. And that means he's got his own farm and he knows his problems well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8849	Thank you very much. Now we will hear the answer of the honourable representative of Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8850	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Bulj, with a desire to, and preparedness, to get this information as soon as possible, I can't give it to you, I could have given it to you four years ago while I was chairman of the board of directors but related to the amounts planned and since annual plans have been changed I have no idea how much it is planned for regular defences, how much for investments in municipal infrastructure and for everything that is financed through the budget of Croatian Waters. So I hope and seek and actually pray that this report is not delivered to all other MPs. So then we can analyse and discuss how and how the funds collected through fees from citizens and the economy are spent through Croatian waters. For a moment I did not want to reduce the knowledge or expertise regarding the farm and agriculture of my colleague Vukovac but one is a family agricultural economy and farm work and the other is actually a problem of elementary disasters and disasters which unfortunately hit us in 2014. And I can't agree with you that the system was unprepared, it's something that happens once in a million years, but the moment the government of the Republic of Croatia declared a state of disaster and took full coordination in all actions and activities related to the flooded area, then the situation began to function properly. The great heart of Croatia, the great heart of Croatian citizens who are and as volunteers have joined in helping there but through contributions and there is only one part of what the system itself has done. Once again I say that the cattle are moved, the livestock fund has provided the Ministry of Agriculture, everything that was needed from veterinary care, to accommodation, to food, to everything that was needed, from soil analysis, from direct aid to all farmers paid for, and we're talking about nearly 6 thousand hectares that were killed in the disaster was determined almost without the mistake itself. We couldn't bring back the uneasy event, we couldn't prevent the disaster, but as a system, we did as much as we could. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8851	Thank you very much. We would now move on to the next Club of Representatives, which is that of HSS, the HDS, on behalf of which the distinguished representative Davor Vlaovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8852	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, respected rapporteurs, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Peasant Party Assembly Party and the Croatian Democratic Party will support the proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Framework Loan Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe Development Bank for the Flood Protection Project with the Final Proposal for the Emergency Procedure Act. I think we're all aware of what flood defense means and what consequences we've had especially when it comes to human lives, material damage, but also those indirect damages through the floods we've had. And that is why it is necessary for the Republic of Croatia to deal with this problem more seriously. And we from the Croatian Parliament have to talk that, the system we have, the system is designed on the basis of climate change, based on 100-year average water conditions and it has been seen that these conditions are not sufficient. I reminded you that the Sava River was inundated in some areas 100-140 cm above these 100-year averages and, of course, in such frameworks, it was difficult for local officials, officials who functioned as head of security and rescue headquarters who did not operationally deal with the fact that some did not manage. However, I argue that local officials, together with local self-government units, with firefighters, with all the people who volunteered, made their maximum contribution and thank them very much for that. However, there was still one coordination between the states, first of all, because we had in three, four days a huge amount of rainfall without having had quality information as to what kind of flow from the BIH is going to have a significant impact on the flow of the Sava River which slowed the flow of the Sava River and additionally raised the level of Sava and we had great damage. I therefore support this bill and the implementation of these projects. We think that 80 million euros for these 25 projects will ultimately not solve all the problems and threaten all possible since the floods are so they need smaller sub-projects because I reminded you that after the floods are being carried out, the first step was to repair the existing damages, try to bring people back to their homes and re-launch both agricultural production and crafts and entrepreneurship in the affected area. The second step was to record the state of water economic facilities and repair the damage at critical points. It's partially done. It has not yet been done, and I think in that part we must coordinate and see together with Croatian waters that do their job well. However, they also need more financial injections such as this loan to raise the system to a higher and more quality level. And a further step is to plan flood defenses in the newly created conditions, given the climate change that is present. In Slavonski Brod, after these floods, we organized a big meeting with representatives of the spatial planners of Croatia, Slovenia and BIH, and we all agreed, even if it is a river Sava that it is necessary to develop a joint project of protection against the floods of the entire area because it is in vain to... in Brod-Posavia County if we do not have the same similar approach on the Bosnian side because it is a single connected system and cannot be viewed individually. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I think that through and I'm glad that in this part of the loan, some of the funds will go towards institutional strengthening to go towards building a quality flood protection system with the neighbours, that this is also spatially envisaged, but also building flood protection facilities makes a whole system. It's an expensive project, it's long-term, but without it, and these projects and these money won't be effective and it won't give those results that we want to get rid of systematically. It is also necessary to place part of these funds on the ground for the education and equipment of the security and rescue headquarters or now under the new Civil Protection Act, fire departments and all other services involved in this process, because the fact that we have not had enough capacity, that we are not equipped enough and that without further reinforcement of this system there will be no quality defence against floods. Also from these project proposals, it is evident that the area of the entire Republic of Croatia is covered which is good, but I mentioned these critical points, and I must repeat them here first and foremost along the Sava River, these streams, tributaries, blizzards, the Orljavic plum that, especially here every year threatens both Požega-Slavon County and Brod-Posavina, the problem around Karlovac, the problem about Sisak and Lekenika, I think that these critical points must be dealt with and that these projects are both work and in these areas, but that these areas should naturally be given greater importance and more investment in them. I would mention that we have run for the European Solidarity Fund which we have identified on our ground and that we have received 17,5 million euros, i.e. the Republic of Croatia has received, but unfortunately these funds have not yet been reduced to regional and local self-government because it was a condition for the work to be carried out, to be financed and proved by the accounts that these are the resulting damages on local roads, local and municipal infrastructure and only then will we withdraw those funds. This process is too long for me and local self-government units have engaged their own resources, and they are not being refunded, and in this way they suffer further opportunities to invest in such and similar facilities and other projects that are important for local self-government units, so I urge that this pay phone be done as soon as possible and because these coins are on the jury account of the Central Treasury or Ministry of Economy. I also have to say that the Croatian roads for that part of the funds approved for the rehabilitation of local and unclassified roads and regional roads of the county have not yet been implemented, the funds are planned, the projects are prepared, I think that the competitions for the contractors of the works should be opened immediately, and that these works should be carried out. I think that, in this context, through a common approach to addressing the problem of flood protection through strengthening the institutional and central state and Croatian waters, we must strengthen the units of local self-government and our voluntary fire-fighting societies, our water facilities economically in order to make this system more functional but of course we need to consider further water management through the construction of accumulations and detergents that would be for water resistance and water flow and flood prevention, but also for possible irrigation of certain areas and of course we need to take care and protect the environment, but also for economic activity because there is a need for construction gravel and sand, and we do not insist on extracting gravel and sand from the Sava River while our neighbours do so. And we only have the cost of importing gravel and sand to build our roads. Also, the resolution of the Sava River waterway that has not been solved for small money, Mr. Former Minister. It has not been solved, and thus further quality development of the port of Slavonski Brod and the economy of this part of Slavonia and Baranja has been disabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8853	Thank you. Your exposure caused several replicas. She's the first one to be a respected representative of Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8854	Thank you, Your Honor. Coliga Vlaović, not solved in 4 years, could not solve everything, but was put into plans and a lot of things from the coast, fortification, from projects, from the black channel... We'd have done this and done this if we had stayed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And these are your coalition partners now, so you have to influence the projects and be a priority. Another thing about the Solidarity Fund you mentioned. Yes, our government has secured the funds, we have done everything we need, the Resorial Commission I think both colleagues Vrdoljak and I have led it have defined projects and ways and opportunities of use for local self-government units. Now it's up to you again, so as a former mayor, and now a parliamentary representative with his mayors and commissioners to speed up the situation, or arrange with coalition partners, that what's over, what's done, what's situationed will be paid. Because there is no reason for the budget of the local self-government units to suffer in this way the slowness of the resolution ministry. What's actually where most of my replica goes to you is probably not bad intentions, but forgetfulness. You said that co-operation, i.e. the Central State's reaction in the event of a May 2014 disaster, was insufficient. I'll remind you that from 19 to 22, I personally spent three days and three nights in Slavonski Brod. Because after the cracks on these two parts of the embankment very large or most critical part was actually the center of the boat and the settlement of Rimac and Stjepan Radić, that I personally was on two or three headquarters for which I insisted that they be the county headquarters along with the city headquarters and that they were our initiative and that if there was a nebula there was a partial evacuation of the population from the part of the settlement of Romec, Jelas who were the most threatened so that in the event of the cracks, we would not have again been injured and human casualties. We've done great, it can always be better, and that's why I'm saying that the institutional framework of the state system and the regional system is better locally. But don't forget that this example of the town of Brod, on the defense of the town of Brod and the surrounding settlements, we've done a great job and the system and you down there. Don't criticize where there's no need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8855	Thank you. The distinguished representative Davor Vlaovic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8856	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here I join what you have said must not be a unit of local self-government due to one's slowness or inactivity to suffer or not paid for flood damage, and the Solidarity Fund has paid off these funds to the Republic of Croatia. The Ship-Posavia County, all units of local self-government, delivered all the documentation last year, and here later they are still looking for additions, so they add up indefinitely while we have information that some other environments have not done the job. I agree with you that this should be rushed, that the ministry has to do this hastily because units of local self-government have invested their resources in the recovery of these damages and it is their turn to be refunded even though in the beginning I did not agree to what had to be financed first, to prove to the accounts, and then to withdraw the funds until the Republic of Croatia received advance funds based on reported damages. I think you should have the same approach to local self-government units, so if someone does something illegal, they have audit controls and the like. But here's what happened, and that's why it hasn't been paid and we're suffering damage. I did not criticise and say that there was not enough coordination between the central and local authorities when it came to defending against floods to just criticise, but with a desire for the system to be better, better quality and more operational. That's why I said more funds must be lowered precisely from this part of strengthening institutional capacity for education. We're doing it now in Brod-Posavina County through headquarters, educating people that they can do bigger dikes, that they can fill bags, that they know where the critical points are, the tour and who's in charge of which area. I should also commend the employees of Croatian Waters and Water Economic Plants in that part and legal persons who, on their part, are in charge of defending against the flood. However, there is still not enough capacity and we need to lower a little, decentralize that part on the ground so we do not wait to see if our bags from the Zagreb stock reserves arrive or if we can have them there on the ground. In this sense, better coordination was needed, and we also have quality information from neighbors how much the water supply is, when we get that wave, etc. I think that part is missing, and that's why I said it, and that's why I appeal to the future for it to be a better quality system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8857	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ladislav Ilčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8858	Dear Mr. Vlaović, who are your experiences with the effectiveness of Croatian water recovery projects in Slavonia. I mean, we're obviously going to get that 80 million kuna now. Croatian waters already have 2 billion or more money, so there's big money in the game. That's what I think 2% of our budget is practically. More and more loud scientists, biologists criticising Croatian water projects in the sense that riverbeds are shrinking, deepening, and that in this way they are actually solving the problem of floods in the place where the shorter waterway is being dug up. However, this also drys out those natural meanings in which the water when it reached a larger water supply rose on a larger surface. Well, then it wasn't as devastating as this when they're torn apart, and then, after that, in the place where there's no longer been rescheduled, there's a disaster. So, the louder those who say that this tactics is not good, that it is actually a project, because of projects in which money is made in some way for these construction companies that work for Croatian waters. I got a lot of intervention in this sense so I'm interested in here from the field, I'd like that, and if the people of Croatian waters were to be seen about it, we don't care what way the money is to be spent. It's safe to get the money, to invest the money, it's safe to work on a recovery or a flood defense, but I'm curious about what the field means to experience the effectiveness of these projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8859	The honourable representative Davor Vlaovic will respond, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8860	Your Honor, MP, if you've been following, and you've been listening to my exposure, I've just said that the waist must find a way to prevent floods, how to make these flood protection systems effective. And I said that in this context, we organized a meeting of interstate planners to make proposals based on their expertise. In particular, when it comes to the Sava River basin, it is not yet reduced to a canal or a trough, but it has a large part of the natural flow, it has a certain... Belts of what it's called, Lonjsko polje, Ivo, Gaine, etc. where your natural spills are, where your water level has dropped. [[You don't understand.]] However, that did not yield enough results, but Sava continued to become full. I said meters and more than 100-year-old average. So, solutions must be sought by other technical solutions and professional solutions and through accumulations, retentions, means preventing the flow from inflows to the Sava and regulating the Sava itself. Experiences from Germany, Austria where rivers pass through cities where they have enough financial resources to prevent mechanical obstacles from spilling rivers into their cities proved to be successful during certain periods. However, when they had an enormous amount of rainfall and there was a spill. So that's not a solution either, but the waist must systematically develop a complete field, look at climate, meteorological opportunities and give some kind of solution. In this direction, it is good that part of the funds will be spent on strengthening institutional capacity. But it is precisely necessary to give an emphasis on quality research and cooperation at interstate level within these areas. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8861	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Ruzica Vukovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8862	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, we remember the coordination and joint actions during the flood very well for our colleague Vlaovic. So local self-government and regional self-government units worked together through all processes. Unfortunately, here's my municipality, although with a few tens of thousands of kuna in action, it hasn't gotten any money back yet. But it doesn't matter. I wanted to stress today the importance of just the 24 hours since the break of the embankment. So that's exactly the 24 hours we haven't been able to figure it out. I mean, that means both the former minister and his crew and the police and the army because we witnessed watching and listening to the cry of animals who were choking in that water, and no one came to save them for 48 hours. I find that inadmissible. I was so horrified that I even expected that responsibility would be decided by criminal courts. However, this was not the case. What's even more terrifying is actually the former minister's approach because he's actually letting us know again how much cattle in the rural space he doesn't care about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8863	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8864	I agree with you that it is very important to prevent, playback of all the competent authorities and institutions that must participate in this headquarters and that must prevent and receive information on the ground as soon as possible. Obviously, if we go back to 2014, it's scheduled. This is a serious thing, this is not what the former prime minister said when a water pipe breaks in the household. These are things we have to work on strategically every day. Not only in Slavonia, because it happened to the Neretva Valley, the Cetin Valley, all those areas that are threatened and that we have to solve both within Croatia and in mutual cooperation with BiH. We have a lot of the same streams, the same rivers, and it affects each other. Here is a key problem, and we all mention it, we mention it means they can't tolerate these areas like that. now in Slavonia, which took place in the flood of 2014. Tell me in reality, since you were then in the role of the parish, are these people being compensated and what is the real situation now? Let's not go back, so we have to roll up our sleeves and not just entangle people in Croatia so that most of the funds go for wages, but roll up our sleeves, do it. And my key question is, what is the situation on the ground now, and are people being compensated, what is the situation on all matters of livestock, agriculture, the economy? You must know this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8865	Thank you. The distinguished representative Davor Vlaovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8866	I understand your dissatisfaction, and I'm dissatisfied especially when he gets hurt whether it's about the man, whether it's about the property, or what the throat of the cattle, and it happened. And of course, it is evident from this that the system did not work and that we must be dissatisfied and look for solutions not only for the guilty but also for solutions. According to the Flood Protection Act, I think the units of local self-government in time responded and called their headquarters, the county headquarters responded in time and the state got involved there when there was a disaster in the area of the former, or that's what's called that part for those who don't know Cvelferi, from Županje to there Gunja and towards the Racinovites and that part of the East. I think it could and always has to be able to do better and react faster because people's lives died and a lot of cattle died, lots of savages died. And recently here we have had a visit to the Assembly Committee on Agriculture of the Mayors of the Districts who said that everything has not been resolved yet, especially when it comes to units of local self-government. I've already mentioned this part that expects funds from the Solidarity Fund and I believe they've all delivered their accounts and documentation belonging, that this will be paid off these days. And there are still unsanitary Polish roads, channel-melioration networks, forest roads, and that people can't get to their pitches and can't do quality work and produce what they want to live on there to live on. So here is the appeal of these people from that field to see the possibilities as soon as possible and to help, and according to the report, the damage from the elementary disasters was paid to the injured who reported the damage to the applicants, unfortunately it was at a small or minimal amount of 3 to 5% when we talk about agricultural cultures and damages in that part. And of course it was especially for an area that was directly injured by the cracks in this area, they got more significant payments. However, it has not yet been paid, they are not yet satisfied with it, and the result is that young families are moving out of the area, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8867	Thank you very much. The hand was raised by the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8868	President-in-Office of the Parliament, the SDP club is looking for a 10-minute break so that we can explain some views. In effect, counterpart Ruzica Vukovac attacked the minister, former Minister Jakovina, for the loss of animals in the flood. She replicated so, not Minister Jakovini, but so that Jakovina couldn't, he couldn't respond to that replica. We will not allow this, we will not allow this abuse of the Rules of Procedure and therefore ask for a five-minute break so that we can explain our views. So every time someone abuses the Rules of Procedure like this knows what's waiting for him.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8869	That's what my colleague Miro Bulj is talking about. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8870	He is searching, and on behalf of the Most, I am asking for a 10-minute break also on the matter of what counterpart Stazic said.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8871	Look, colleagues and colleagues, this is unacceptable completely and I won't give you a break, I won't give you a break, not one or the other. And I'm not going to give you a break for the simple reason, no matter what you can, of course, ask for a break whenever you want, but this is a typical example of the abuse of parliamentaryism. So in conversations and discussions there are different attitudes, attitudes that someone likes, someone doesn't like them, they can be true, they can be incorrect, sometimes they were unfortunately offensive, but we never abused it in such a way that if we didn't like what someone else said we were looking for a break. It'll turn, if I let it happen, we'll literally turn this house into a joke, and I won't do it as long as I'm sitting here. So I'm not taking a break from each other. If you don't like it, you can handle it, here's the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the distinguished representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8872	President-in-Office of the Parliament, you know very well that according to our Rules of Procedure, the chair has to approve a break whenever the club asks for it, whenever the club asks for it, and this morning, they're asked to take a break because of things that MPs don't like, or they wanted to explain, or they wanted to react to something, and you approved those breaks. This is what I find asphyxiating the freedom of speech in the Parliament, by banning the SDP's stance, by banning the SDP's position. We will say what we have to say about you, and about what Mrs. Rose Wolf said. So you're not going to shut us up, but you are now equatingly violating Parliament's Rules of Procedure because you know that the chairman has to approve a break every time the club asks for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8873	You of course have the right and I advise you to appeal under the procedure of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the legal system. So, one and the other, and I didn't deny... First, do not lead the controversy with me because it violates the Rules of Procedure, and you will not be warned about it, and then do not tell the press that you have received for some other reasons than your colleagues have claimed to the press. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm not warning you right now because you're breaking the Rules of Procedure because you're discussing and arguing with the chairman and you know you can't do that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I will repeat once again it is not appropriate, it is not appropriate for parliamentaryism if someone says anything we do not like, which is against our beliefs etc. abuse of business opportunities. It's never been done in this house, and while I'm here, it's not gonna work. So, we'll move on now. You can say whatever you want, of course, but you can also call a press conference, so say that I'm choking your freedom and it's not choking freedom, but it's an abuse of democracy would be if you let it now, because after that everyone from any party would report when he doesn't like that someone else is saying he's looking for a break so he can express his views. And they would turn this into a comedy. So, here you go, Comrade Bull. You want to say something.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8874	My colleague, President, on behalf of the MOST Club, I spoke to him earlier, so he did not speak for himself, as a purely reaction to the attack on the parliamentary representative using the Rules of Procedure, Assembly representative Vukovac. And, of course, that's why we're only asking that we can answer without you letting us. And we think this way of acting is not good, looking for a break for these things and us personally. But there's nothing left for us that you've allowed us to be even, to ask for a break. However, this decision of yours, I find it correct and that we all treat each other rightly because if we were looking for breaks, then we could take a break every two minutes in each debate. This was merely a reaction to what a colleague wanted to try to attack some unargumented fellow Vukovac that in this way we are equal and equal in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8875	I understand everything. You know very well that my intention has never been and will not be to silence anyone. And, however, anyone within the limits of decency and parliamentaryism can express whatever opinion he wants. However, there is also a business possibility that the former vice president of the Parliament knows very well, which is that he has a final presentation in the end. At the end of all exposures can occur, speak normally for 5 minutes according to the Rules of Procedure. Everyone, every club. So it's well-known and I won't allow abuse. And now we will continue, and I would like to give my word on behalf of the HNS club, Honorary Representative Milorad Batinić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8876	Thank you, Mr. President, deputy associate, colleague and colleague. Very short, so the Proposal for the Law on Confirmation of the Framework Treaty is technically not to be added to much but the very subject of protection, meaning protection, the Flood Protection Project, may well be based on experience in previous years to perhaps a little bit more specifically talk about it. I'll take a brief look at what's already been said on behalf of the clubs, but first and foremost maybe, maybe get some things straight and talk more about who's taking the loan and who's returning it. It means in Section IV of Chapter IV. The assessment of the funds necessary for the implementation of the law is mentioned, of course, by the State budget of the Ministry of Finance, but in simple dictionary terms this loan is taken by Croatian waters and returned to us by the citizens as a payment of the municipal contribution and compensation for water management. Of course, by means of the State and the Ministry of Finance as an intermediary. That's very clear there. And it also writes the dynamics of payment until when it will be and how the tranches will return and all together. So the state budget is 0 kuna. All right, we can take it. The deficit of the state has no tax revenue, the citizens themselves will finance it as a mass of things and completely legitimate and acceptable. But why am I saying that? I say this primarily for the simple reason why I say the technical elements of the Framework Agreement cannot be criticised or added or challenged. However, although I believe that most of you also draw attention to why he is indicative. Because we're all aware when we're taking some credit that we need more than detail from the complete project documentation, of all the necessary permits to contribute to whether it's consent or not. But O.K., it's with the European Development Bank defined such a principle, not the first. However, why I say this, I primarily speak for the reasons when it comes to contributions that define what credit funds will be spent on. And from that you can read that and ask the question, so here I am using the opportunity of the Deputy Minister, justified if he is not familiar but I believe he will ask that question to the authorities if we have a elaborate flood protection system at the level of the Republic of Croatia? I'm asking this question because I've been saying, in the last few years, because of climate change that's just hard to predict when watermen do certain projects and projections, we're talking about so-called. 100-year-old waters. I think that's the kind of approach that's getting old. Namely, what's going on? I believe that all of us in our areas have the opportunity to see many water streams that have had to say, and as a result of the frequent rainfall, the waterway could have increased, but certain water streams have elements. Which, back in 20, 30 years wasn't the case. So there are some new challenges for the waterers, for Croatian waters, primarily for those who manage the waters. And I think we should approach one systematic analysis. And that is why this part when it comes to areas of action, planned works, sub-projects and financial separations from credit debt, does not mean that from the remaining resources of Croatian waters, it will not be singled out by institutional strengthening, making studies for river basins. Maybe some colleagues will say, that's where we throw the money, consultants, this, what, left, right, but I think it's preparation, preparing it to be more than important. Because of everything I've said and what many colleagues have pointed out, the climate is changing. Are we ready for this challenge that is very difficult to predict? So I would suggest that here is a system of defence of 74.3m euros and institutional strengthening of 5.7m euros. It may sound a lot and it's a lot of money, but if it's enough if after this, it's about the Danube plum, the Danube, the Adriatic, it's a pretty wide area. But when you look at the part about which and who it's dealing with, I'm not really sure, and it would be very interesting how much of each of them's plums are covered by this loan. You can say it and we can all conclude it. There is still, whether two or three billion are the budget of the Croatian waters for it. Namely, what I do in some way, is possible since this is a framework agreement, is it possible here in this part of the indicative list of subprojects all alone in point 6 that speaks, means the system of defence in the land area of Karašica, Vukica, is the only thing I see here is the word irrigation and recreation in Jurdjevac, recreation less important but irrigation. Whether it's a change or maybe in the walk to solve those things too. Namely, both the new minister and the new government in their four-year programme and what we're falling behind in the Republic of Croatia, the irrigation of agricultural areas, we have water potential, and of course, if you don't stop the water, you don't take advantage of it, it goes away. From the Danube goes the Black Sea plum, the Adriatic goes to the Adriatic and we haven't been able to use that water potential in a simple dictionary. It's something I certainly believe will be taken care of. Furthermore, each of us, when he was discussing, spoke to the area he came from, so will I. Drava okay, we've had floods, we're not so much maybe they weren't so much. However, back in 30 years, during 20 years certain areas were both flooded and 40 years ago, but there was no material damage, so no area was built. So we brought Croatian waters as current drivers, we indirectly put ourselves and the state in a position that through spatial plans we allowed to build on the natural retentions of certain plums. Yes, we did. We tried to play nature and play it and it keeps returning to us and creating cost and material damage. I am aware that the wheel of history cannot go back, but let us not make such mistakes in the future. This should be more than a warning. I'd just like to say, of course, a drain of Drava whether that's enough, whether this and enough of the resources left over from these, from funding means, from contributions and water compensation for water treatment, whether it'll be enough that there will be no more floods. I'd like to know that. In advance, we can all estimate that this loan will not say drop in the sea, it is a drop in the river. First of all, Deputy Minister, I believe you're aware of this, and you need to do better studies so that floods don't happen anymore. On the banks of the river Bednja I believe that rare of you know it, it is the only Croatian river, the longest Croatian river that has a source and a mouth in the Republic of Croatia. The only source and mouth in the Republic of Croatia. They only managed to stop her from getting blue about a year ago. Namely, her plum is gravitating that 5 or 6 gulf water streams from Mount Ivančica, from Mount Ravna Gora from Trakoscan, and now I see that this is where it started, the recovery of the barrier profile and the cascade fast-track on Lake Trakoscan. You know how much that's gonna stop you from swimming? 1%, 1%, drop in Lake Trakoscan. So, I'm pushing for a systematic approach, we're going to spend 50% of these resources, to make studies, to make projects, to make analysis and to make quality, to have a far better, more systematic approach to solving flood protection. The floods were a natural natural disaster, and now we had a natural cold disaster that was very indicative of us and it did not hit the whole area, but certain areas were damage to vineyards, orchards, agricultural crops, but strangely, where our old ones once planted orchards and vineyards, there was no damage. Most of the damage has occurred to those crops of many years where no one until 20, 25 years ago has been planted. It's to imagine. The next elemental accident, which may be specific for northern Croatia, three counties, Krapina-Zagorska, Varazdinska, Međimurska gliding sites, are again water. This year, the budget envisions a fund for environmental protection in the ministry, a benign item in the literal sense of the word, the recovery of the slide. So if we put in proportion the area covered by the slides, if we put in a relationship with an area that was flooded with material damage on public infrastructure, de to the network, water supply systems, gas pipelines, unclassified roads, local, county roads, and if the damage from the floods is very little difference with the fact that the endangered houses have slipped away or half the house has slipped away, no one is worried about it. The last government tried something before the government, too. Well, now that is a question if it is questionable whose jurisdiction is at least positive, we on behalf of the HNS Club have made an amendment that this part of the position in the Environmental Protection Fund is increased to one reasonable sum with a three-year projection to partially execute public works recovery, meaning from road, infrastructure and accessibility to people that can reach their families who are questionable usability, unfortunately, nothing. So here's the question, Deputy Minister, when we know very well how climate change is caused by huge rainfall changes, and ultimately water is the one that causes the slide in some way, whether it's in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Waters, the Ministry of Agriculture or maybe it's in the jurisdiction of another resolution ministry. What I'd like if you looked at the attachments, said the identification and monitoring table of the project. So results, social impact, economic impact, environmental impact. The environment was mentioned, I agree. Extremely complex as either and the forester, I know very well what the dikes in Slavonia have done to the spa pool, the area of Vinkovac, of course. However, every water procedure must also receive an environmental impact study. I only hope there won't be any flat-rate evaluations, because the regime, the water regime, especially the groundwaters in Slavonia, in all these plums and Drava and Sava and Danube are disturbed. And that's why waterers need to protect us as citizens and material goods, but we also protect Slavonic oaks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8877	Thank you very much. We have one replica of Honorable representative of Shandor Juhas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8878	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague, I'd just like to comment on what you said about playing with nature. We're playing with nature, and we're not sticking to what's supposed to be, which is what nature has done and created over the past million years. I would say that there is no one quality plan to exploit space especially those parts where influences are intertwined or where there are different tendencies of exploiting natural resources. I come from the area where Drava and Dunav are poured in, in fact, where Drava is poured into the Danube, where there are still a number of small rivers and rivers and where people have actually learned to live with water, where it was perfectly normal for a flood to come after certain periods. And people get used to it. That's why it was inconceivable for me last year when we talked about the situation in Gunya that very few people had secured their crops there, secured their houses. It was inconceivable and inconceivable to me to this day that all the forests, the Croatian forests, when they come to their senses, begin to disembark or exploit. It's inconceivable to me, too, that all the hurricanes have to be in those areas that are... flat, where regular swimming takes place to process. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So a whole series of such processes should be coordinated and then some solution should be reached. Because we can borrow as much as we want if we've made our big, powerful rivers plain canals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8879	Thank you. The esteemed representative Milorad Batinic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8880	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Juhas, well, basically, I think I'm kind of talking about everything you mentioned, but in my own way. I wouldn't, I didn't mean to pick up the line unless I stood up for a fellow woodworker. You must know that for every economic unit, Croatian forests have economic foundations, annual plans are made, ten annual plans, even 20 years of plans. What you're saying is they take advantage whenever they want. No, that's not true. I mean, I need the truth to protect the integrity of the profession. So what you're thinking when it's finished, it means when it's restored, all the trees are cut down. So the young substance is given a chance to grow further. So here's why I believe that you didn't mean anything by it, but the truth works that way I have to answer it. So you're not doing the exploitation cutting as it was in the period between two jobs where it wasn't about natural restoration. If a natural restoration cannot be carried out, then it is going to be a hammock. So soil protection is primarily a key priority. Because without quality forest soil, there's no forest. So, don't doubt the implementation of the economic bases of the foresters. If there are somewhere, I'm not talking about, there are certain experiences that certain private, if it's about private forests, the fact is that certain private forest owners irresponsibly lord with forests.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8881	Thank you. We now move on to individual debates and the first to appear is the distinguished representative Maro Kristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8882	Dear President, colleagues and fellow MPs. My debate does not go in the direction of criticism of the system since I think the system has reacted according to what really happened. In 2014, we had a flood of catastrophic proportions, and in no way do I think that today none of the speakers wanted to criticise any part of the system, especially those valuable volunteers who came from all over Croatia, and so also from Dubrovnik, many went to help the victims. My criticism is heading towards what we projects to improve the flood protection system talk about today, in 2016, when we have already been hit by a number of floods. I think that given the capacities of Croatian Waters and the numerous officials sitting in Croatian waters, these projects should have been protected long ago and I think it is just the key to all of this that we are talking about prevention. Unfortunately, in Croatia, we work very little to prevent a number of problems, and then we have a recovery of damage that costs more than their prevention. I'm going to give myself some freedom so I'm going to say a few words about the Law on the Protection of Essential Accidents that directly touches this problem. Many speakers today mentioned how much damage we have, and how many countries in their budget actually provide modest means for their recovery. I was myself in Dubrovnik-Neretva County for a number of years as chairman of the County Commission for the Assessment of damages from elementary disasters, so I saw how much administrative procedure it was to eventually get one damage, perhaps 2 to 3% of the total damage that hit him. Therefore, I think that Croatia needs a whole new policy in which a national co-financing campaign would actually focus on ensuring that all potential damages or citizens who want to secure their property and agricultural areas, because that is the only way in which we can ensure that once they have a common policy with insurance homes, when they happen, and of course it is impossible to prevent their catastrophic consequences that those damages can go on with their normal lives. Because the way we're working today, the way the Law on Protection against elemental disasters is actually one splash of all those damages that hit something that they didn't want to happen in life. I also think that today, through EU funds, funds are being provided for the recovery of the affected areas, and I think that we should work to maximise these development agencies that are absolutely and at all times going to help potential damages and victims and help them in their applications. We've had experience in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, we've had a lot of elemental accidents lately. A very small number of injured people have reported and used EU funds. So here I see the solution is to co-finance insurance premiums and to use European funds as much as possible. For all of these projects, these 25 projects that are listed here, I would like to know what stage they are completed because I would not like only some of them to be realised through this framework agreement because, of course, nature is changing, we can always expect major catastrophic phenomena. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8883	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8884	Here is the distinguished representative Kristic from your presentation I noticed one key thought, which is the prevention of elementary disasters, in this case floods. And here I would ask you and connect one problem that has been emerging for several years in Croatia, it is a problem of gravel on rivers. Because in 2010 or 2011, a new Water Act was passed, which is what former Minister Jakovina I think knows well, which simply disappeared concessions from these seines that were running out of time and we today have a situation that rivers are full of floods in certain places. So I'm not an expert engineer for this, but it's perfectly logical that if they don't clean up, let's not keep it that way, by respecting, naturally, biodiversity and protecting the eco system, we have an increase in the risk of floods. So, what do you think about whether or not I should, I think this is but here I ask you, should I make sure that this issue of cleaning up the river again as a preventive action? We have an absurd phenomenon that we need even to defend ourselves from the flood we import from the other side of Republika Srpska from Bosnia and Herzegovina and annually about 400 million kunas for importing sand that they even buy from our part of the river. This is a very important economic, preventive question, and therefore, does that make any sense? Tell me after all that you're taking loans that are 0% in this case, okay, but how do you explain it?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8885	Here's an esteemed colleague of yours, in a certain way, in your question, and you gave one answer, right? Absolutely that we need to update this issue. I don't know now about the current concession status, but we're going back to that word of prevention. So, if we even exploited and economically used that sand that creates certain problems, we wouldn't need to be in debt, even if those interest rates were 0. However, these duties certainly require certain costs from the Croatian state and would have one regulated system of prevention of natural disasters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8886	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is that of distinguished representative Josip Križanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8887	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues and many things have already been said in this debate but let me say several of my observations given the fact that huge damages and material and human disasters brought by floods as well as the current situation on flood protection facilities throughout the Republic of Croatia. Of course everyone in their right mind will support this law and raise both hands for it. Furthermore, if one of the laws deserves to be included in the emergency procedure and in the emergency procedure, then it is certainly this law because it will cause faster resolution of existing and construction of new necessary flood protection systems. In fact, it is known that no elemental accident leaves behind such long-term and inconspicuous consequences as a flood, so it is necessary to move on as soon as possible to build these flood protection systems. It is certain that the 100% protection or prevention of what my predecessor was talking about is never possible and it is very difficult to secure, and it is also very difficult to prevent predicting certain situations, but we must try and do as much as possible to avoid it. Of course, this project, apart from direct protection of the population and employment of construction infrastructure, will also result in an impact on agriculture, the economy as well as flora and fauna in the environment and drinking water. The loan is extremely acceptable especially because of the release of interest on this first tranche of credit and the interest is maximum correct. However, I, as a local official and also a representative, is also looking forward to the fact that half of the funding of this project will be 400m euros in water contribution and water treatment fees. So, we've been wondering a lot of times where these money's going and one of my predecessors is talking about maybe it's not good, I just think it's good because we know exactly where some of the money we're taking in the field in large quantities. And from this place I appeal to the government, there's also a deputy minister to return some of these funds, most of it back to local self-government units. Furthermore, the indicative list is correctly explained and covered by all priority plums according to the water management strategy and risk heights, and also included the streams of Sava, Drava, Danube, Vuke, Kupe, Karasice, Neretva and also Krapina, Mura and Bednje. This is what is particularly important to us because some believe that small rivers cannot do great harm. Of course I want to appeal and ask for urgency and responsibility in implementing this project. Furthermore, it should be taken into account when designing a flood protection system exactly what we were already talking about as before about the height and quantity in the waterways because the peak amount of water flow or altitude 20 years ago and now they are not nearly the same but are now where and where they are larger. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8888	Thank you. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8889	Thank you very much. We've been discussing one loan that was agreed 2 years ago, and even those who participated were actually in the government that negotiated this today telling another story, but perhaps this loan and the flood defence system was an opportunity for us to open another topic in Croatia this morning, and this could be the development of agriculture without irrigation? Can we use the irrigation system as a flood defense system? And maybe if we had talked like that this morning then our discussions would probably have gone in the direction of making some use of it together. And we talked about everything but we didn't talk about essential problems. I honestly thought I was going to tell my father, I'm not going to say, two years ago after those terrible floods that took place in Slavonia there was a lot of controversy over the law that was passed in this high house about how flood damage would be resolved, but this high-level Homeland War has never discussed a report on the implementation of this law. I sincerely hope that one day the review will make that report so that we can clear that up. But I'm saying if we're talking about flood protection, then we need to look at it as a watering function because today in modern agriculture given these climate change times, we have a terrible lot of rain, then we have dry periods, very difficult to talk about extensive agricultural production if the irrigation problem isn't solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8890	Thank you. The esteemed representative Josip Križanić will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8891	Thank you for incentivizing a story that must be extremely interesting, especially for extensive agriculture. I have to say that we in Varazdin County and Krapina-Zagorska don't even have a irrigation plan, and we all know very well that especially intensive agriculture, especially vegetables or some other branch of agriculture that we have developed, is certainly not in any sense able to develop without irrigation, and to unite one and the other story is certainly necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8892	Thank you. Now we're going to cut back on the next individual debate, and that's her esteemed representative, Steve Culey. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8893	Dear President, Croatians and Croats talk about the floods that hit eastern Slavonia, not mentioning everything that happened in and after it, I personally am for the money to be won and to be properly deployed but under great supervision, not to be like in some times. The flood defence organisation itself went from individual engagements, group, through associations, through local officials who called for anything that could have been used in the defense. When the water reached a critical point on the hillside near Štitar municipality of Štitar held a 9km line, so from Štir to Županje. They were no longer supported by the night-long fight against water, not after 48 hours had the strength to fight, but then they were helped by various associations, military, special police, because our great flood leader, Sean Connery, had not yet arrived on a white horse to free Slavonia from the flood. Then we organized night patrols every two hours at a point of about 500 meters where we were careful that the water didn't break under the embankment that many experts didn't know to be careful that someone wouldn't accidentally blow up, sometimes the banks of Sava and the clumps were guarded so that they wouldn't come from Bosnia and then mine. We know how that went in the past tense. So I would also like to say that boys were underage, schoolboys from all over Slavonia were coming from all over Croatia. And also, in particular, that the basic defenses of flood lurking are where the entire village is with all its machines and all its resources, where they've hoarded the defense. I especially have to mention the man and the shield, I don't know his name, he's a big farmer, a pharmacist, Mr. Yakovina might know him, who sells machines, the man had tens of thousands of bags we used to fill with sand at the most critical points. This man had penetrated 400 feet [400 m] through a field road that he had found so that we could even get to the embankment and defend itself. At that point we didn't even have a charger, we had sand, but the bag didn't. But what happens later goes on like this, this was about the defense organization. The only and first official, the statesman I remember was Mariana Petir, who came to Stitar to support the defenders of the dikes and others. And then the third time the flood took hold, when the water stopped, so she couldn't go anymore, the vaervaga established what was then going on? Then I go back to that first Sean Connery White horse, coming in, falling off the transporter and then leaving, I'd call it after the flood a stinking swamp. Why the stinky swamp? Because that's when the rebuilding of the ruined Guns and places begins. The money he's got at that point is spent out of control. It has purpose, purpose but what control it is. So the Ministry of Reconstruction published the total data on the reconstruction from which no individual cost or average of reconstruction was seen. And like this, the cost of the Racinovci individual reconstruction, of course, in 6 houses of the collection pit was 64 thousand and 500 kuna at the beginning of the renovation and was later reduced from 15 to 28 thousand kuna, the price of the septic pit. Those who were self-renovating their homes received an amount of 40 to 70 thousand kuna. It's that the amount they received from these 40 to 70 thousand kunas was needed to rebuild their entire house and these were given 64,5 thousand kuna for septic pits. 1164 owners, they self-renovated their houses and were cut off from the cesspools and those that were built. Companies that had direct contracts with the ministry asked for a commission from 20 to 50% of their co-operatives. By increasing that figure at the price of the material that these cooperatives sold them because they conditioned that they would be co-operatives in the first place, they must also purchase construction material. So even when they do nothing, there are between 200 thousand kunas left throughout the facility, but per individual renovation, it means only 30 to 50 thousand kuna reconstruction. ... is the construction company IMAP Ivica Filipovic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think I've said enough so you can replicate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8894	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He's the first of his distinguished MPs, Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8895	Comrade Culey, I know you're coming from these areas, so close to where this great tragedy occurred. I am aware and I know that you were involved in the recovery itself and during the help in this area, of course it was all without help, there are essentially an appointment of institutions and you are a witness and now you have also said in the aftermath of the flood or now in the recovery of that space that there are countless injustices. Me personally as a man coming from another region, meaning Croatia, from Dalmatia, from Sinj, I was aware then that Croatian institutions, i.e. those who should have responded, who should have prevented and organised the flood itself and given solutions to the problem before it had been done. It's a fact and there's no excuse and there's 100% right. However, the fact that those who were meant to protect both people and good and citizens did not react both preventively and afterwards. And in the course of the floods, which unfortunately had tragic effects. I can testify because in my neighborhood, help was collected in both food and cattle because people called, from Slavonia at that time from flooded areas, from the collection centers that there was no food, so we transported the haystacks, collected, personally involved, collected hay. So the institutions didn't do their job. And the fact that our citizens pay for Croatian waters, pay for the treatment of the canals, for the maintenance of the canals, but unfortunately this part is much more important than the number of officials in Croatian waters and less important is the strategy, investment, what citizens pay for. And that's where I'd agree with you. And once again, please, since you're upstairs, tell us what the situation on the ground is to hear well, what is the situation now in the Gunja area and the wider area that you have now said because I haven't heard everything well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8896	The Honorable counsel, Stevo Culej, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8897	The situation on the ground is as determined after the flood, Minister Jakovina will say better because he has done his mandate in that time. I thank all of Croatia that has helped since the flood of all associations, the most I can say to the Split Unit of Bat, which has brought countless white-tech trucks up and all those who participated in the division. Also, another information about engagement, the activation of the defence system in Croatia cannot help but mention the anti-terrorist unit Lučko, one of the most important Croatian units that went to Serbia to help Serbia defend against floods, the extraction of floods, survivors, techniques and others that failed to get from Zagreb to Gunja, Vrbanje and other flood sites, has managed to reach Serbia in a short time, so I would ask the former minister that he is here but here, because there is no, I have nothing to ask him.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8898	Thank you very much. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8899	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, you know exactly what the situation is there and what the situation is in Cvelferia, and I know it well, because during their joys, I was there once a week. Equally, the data you're dealing with would be good if you actually checked them out a little bit. So, on the Ministry's website you can open the Ministry's website, you have a special icon that refers to floods and that when you open that icon, you have a cadastrian particle, home number, location and amount for each individual house and the amount that the renovation has cost. And what you probably know as well as I do is that people were able to choose whether they wanted the state to renew it to them at the state's expense or whether they wanted to take the funds themselves. As well as I probably well know that from a pay phone in the mosque who also Deputy Chief Gunja said, the state will not restore you anything, don't count on it for the state, it won't do it, take the funds of 40 and 70 thousand kuna respectively with what you need to know and probably know as well as I do, that those funds were just for the hands, that the complete material was donated to them. So, it would be good to talk about Cvelferia, when we talk about 6 settlements so let me repeat them, it's Gunja, Rajo Selo, Račinovci, Strošinci, Đurići and Posavski Podgajevci, it's six settlements that have been flooded, and for each individual house you know exactly what is the amount, for buildings and public purposes you know exactly what is the amount and, of course, that anyone can check any of these amounts. And what you mentioned about septic darkness. When the topic of septic caves was opened in one of our printings, one more time a check was asked for, and that was the reason for each house to be told exactly what was the amount. We have a good custom, and when we do a good job, then we don't think it's a good job, but we're looking for all the grudges in that job that it is. And when it comes to construction, you probably know as well as I do that the work was late because there were no people who wanted to work and we couldn't import people from Bosnia and domestic people aren't any of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8900	Thank you. The Honorable counsel, Stevo Culej, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8901	In the municipality of Gunja, in the local mosque, he therefore called on the population not to expect support, probably broken by previous experiences after the Homeland War of Reconstruction, where many were cut off for an adequate restoration in which I was also involved in the first line. My place was neither like a place of special state concern, although I was on horseback between the three Serb places that attacked us, for a very long time my village of Jarmina was not like a place of special state concern. So he invited people to just organize themselves because it's the best way for people to make something for themselves until their first aid comes. I did not open icons to seek out what the situation is right now in Gunja, but people from Gunja started writing letters to me, so certain Stjepan Lucic, the Radic 94 brothers from Gunja, did not read the OIB, the application for a regular settlement and the housing care of Croatian defenders and volunteers of the Homeland War, the documentation submitted on 5.11. Stjepan Lucic of Gunja, on our ministry's website, saw that he was on the 154th-place financial support list with 290 points, not to read all of this. In fact, we still live in a 10-metre-square container and in very bad conditions for a life I wouldn't wish for anyone. Soon I expect them to take these ten squares away from us because as we hear this container settlement has to be closed. Not to be so black, my partner is pregnant and we expect a new one, and if that happens in these circumstances, we ourselves don't know what we're going to do or how we're going to do it. At this point our only desire is to reach our own roof over our heads to stay alive in our Gunja from which people and most young people leave each day... What is said is whether the renewal was carried out according to criteria, according to a regular list, political similarities, divisions, squares, the number of family members or some other reasons that are necessary for survival in politics. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8902	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8903	Thank you, Your Honor. Since we couldn't get a break on behalf of the Club then I reported an individual debate that in some way further clarifyed some things, i.e. by discussing my opinion on the abuse of time used through replicas for one law which is actually a positive law, a law that brings quite a good water economy to the Republic of Croatia and to the entire Republic of Croatia, which is likely on Friday at the vote of all colleagues and colleagues to raise their hands but then actually one well done job which is not signed two years ago, but started the whole procedure two years ago and was signed 8 months ago and now has to be implemented and should have been implemented, discussed in this Assembly and started to realise and withdraw those funds, or given the possibility of our civil operation to work and earn. Now we've brought it back as a debate about something that's happened. I have to apologize deeply, I said 19.5. not 17.5. was the day of the biggest disaster in the Republic of Croatia. And an analysis of the condition that occurred at that time, that is, right after that. We now hear in the restoration that has been done in accordance with the Law on the Recovering of the Impact of the disaster in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County. As the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we adopted the final report. If it hasn't arrived here yet for discussion, but if we want to talk about it, there are documents that can be seen exactly what, how and how it's done. What needs to be clarified, because some colleagues and colleagues have used their time and this pay phone to attack the Ministry of Agriculture and myself personally, which is pretty inappropriate if they don't exist. It's not a different opinion, it's a de facto lie and misinformation, because you need to know who in such cases is a natural disaster and disaster for what is responsible and indebted. Gentlemen, there is a state plan to defend against floods which is precisely precise in the event of a natural disaster and disaster who has to do what and how, what is due and how can these huge consequences that arise in the event of such disasters come to a minimum. I'm going to mention once again the crack of the left bank of the Sava River in two places happened on May 17th. Croatian waters as an institution or body responsible for the protection of water buildings are in a series of steps before that, and we are talking about water stops. Some of the colleagues said, they said exactly which were, two feet, five to five feet [20 to a half m] on some of the measured points higher than the highest simulated waterways of the centuries that had ever taken all those steps that had to be done by then. Could they have been even more spotty and better in preparation? I'm probably aware of that, too, and that's why we need to fix it so that it never happens to us again. But from preventive measures, from regular measures, from extraordinary defence measures everything has been taken in certain steps. The highest degree and the highest stage is actually an extraordinary declaration of state of emergency on protected water buildings, on... Areas and it was done almost 24 hours before the crack of the embankment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One who should have done a great deal of work on what is now being respected by me personally and the Ministry of Agriculture are, in fact, units of local self-government, departments of protection and rescue of municipalities, cities and county headquarters, which as well as the entire system, as well as the entire state, as well as all of us were surprised by the disaster and scale of the disaster. But she can't call her colleague Vukovac the Resort Ministry and myself personally that we haven't made cattle management, if she, as the head of the municipality of Velika Kopanica, is at the head of that same Protection and Rescue Station as she is here, we heard a colleague of Vlaović and I know personally because I was all those days down in the area and the Brod-Posavina and Vukovar-Srijem County, maximumly done 24 hours, worked together with the mayors and mayors and others on that, on their Protection and Rescue Staff. What are those headquarters doing? They're implementing flood defense measures. The flood defence measures are strategic documents that have units of local self-government, which have counties and which are handled. Partly or completely evacuating the population, evacuating the vehicle, evacuating the stock fund or something, but someone needs to do it. The easiest thing to do after a year and a half, two days now is one good project that the government has done and I welcome what this government has continued, so let's go as quickly as possible and build these facilities to protect against the harmful effects of water and floods. Not now we're going back to something that's pure fiction and lies, gentlemen pure fiction and lies. In this assembly you can say your opinion, it may be critical, but you should have a certain argument when talking about something. Comrade Bull, when you say the system failed, the cattle that were rescued were hungry. I'm telling you it's a lie, it's a misinformation and they didn't give you the right information. A large number, unfortunately, of a large number of livestock funds because they were not evacuated in time, and there were 24 hours of possibility of calling on these measures to withdraw those cattle to those areas that were higher and where there would be no such damage within the shortest time that there would be no epidemic, so that there would be no protection of the veterinary service, all those who could and who were trained with and the medical teams and remained removed from the field so as not to have any epidemic. Everything we've managed to evacuate, what we've pulled out of the water stream, and the rest is located at the replacement locations that I'm going to repeat, there were over 400 of them. They were also provided with professional veterinary care and provided sufficient amounts of food for all cattle which had been moved, which had been rescued all the time for these few months until the economic facilities, stops and the rest returned and arranged and controlled that they were able to re-supply the veterinary checks of households that were capable of receiving these cattle were fully provided with food, with medical care, with all the necessary free of charge for the end-user. When we talk about compensation for damages paid to farmers themselves, the Commission for the Assessment of damages from elementary disasters reported nearly 17,000 ha of flooded areas. Together with farmers in two, three times we met and suggested, I insisted and we decided and agreed that based on the ortho photo footage, satellite footage on 21st and 26th, we would see the real surfaces of the farm floor, affected by the floods, were underwater and for those owners maximum compensation through the payment of the funds for what they lost and what was done to them. That would be about, about 6,000, I didn't carry the material with me, I didn't think today's debate about good law would turn into lunches, into lies, attacks that have no argument. I said nearly 17,000 ha there were applications from these commissions, and the real damage was at 6,000 ha and those people were paid almost 40 million damages. We opened a special measure and measure through the Rural Development Programme, it is the first competition for those affected by the stock fund, where 100% return could provide and buy new cattle. We made free of charge and secured control in fact of removing all those applications and others on agricultural surfaces, control of agricultural land. It was all borne by the system and the Ministry of Agriculture. Don't say nothing was done. Another small crackdown, when we talk about a potential set of measures that should be taken and includes grinding the coritals and other 2009 Laws, is the law that banned gravel and sanding in the Republic of Croatia. We unfortunately also negotiated this, agreed to everything they asked us to close a chapter that had no specific analysis, no special thinking, and then closed the possibility for our economic operators who are engaged in this activity to continue. In our term of office we have managed to correct certain things, we have given the opportunity to obtain concessions for extraordinary or regular maintenance on some plums and the like, although here is my colleague Romic, your candidate, I hope that we will change or partially amend this Waters Act and restore that activity again for our economies, not that we must have gravel and sand only extraordinaryly in some special cleaning exercise or by easier procedure. But once again, I'm not two, three years ago, as said, but in 2009. I say once again, we're standing open probably all of us former ministers from the former government because we're proud of that job we did. It was a disaster for people, it was something that was very difficult to defend and all these jobs, all of these projects will not, for all time, prevent the possibility of climate change like this, in these large rainfalls, in such an unsettled interstate system of alarming, reporting, coordinating activities that are extremely important. I don't know which one of our colleagues said that we didn't have enough information about water stops and what was coming from BiH or from the countries of the region, that's the part that needs to be better coordinated, we need to invest more in this defence sector than the harmful effects of water, the construction of new embankments, the arrangements of these facilities. And among other things, it's this law we just need to start applying it. I'm actually very interested in when the promoter will give answers to these important questions that I've asked, at which point we can actually expect the beginning of these projects, the realization of projects or colleagues Kos, I think you've recorded, so I'm going to show myself on behalf of the club at the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8904	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. The first is Honorable representative of Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8905	Dear colleague Jakovina is not easy in this House with a president who we have a chance to tell the truth and deny lies. You did it today for only one reason that the attack on you came at a time when you had yet to apply for an individual debate. If only a minute later, only a minute later a lie would have become true. Because we have such a president of the Parliament who won't allow lies to be denied here. We tried to do it on behalf of the club, asking for a five-minute break to be denied and to defend not only your ministry and you as Minister but also our country, to be patriots. This flood that occurred and the government's reaction and the country's reactions, the entire Croatian public was something that we can all be proud of. Such tragedies occur rarely, and what the country has responded to is a reason for pride. However, we have such politicians now in the Parliament who are using it to attack you. Those who were supposed to work as headquarters leaders who were supposed to take care of cattle in time and did not do their job are now taking advantage of the opportunity to attack you here, and the President of the Parliament does not allow that lie to be denied. But it's a characteristic of HDZ, which is why it's asphyxiation of freedom of speech, these attacks on the media we're witnessing. But that's why President Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic was staged yesterday, and the president of the parliament will also be appointed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8906	We have several injuries to the Rules of Procedure. However, I want to make it clear to you my fellow Stazić I will not say and use the word your colleague used, a lie, but you are telling the truth because I offered you very clearly that in the final debate you can say anything you want. You, however, are up to the creation of circuses and not serious debates in the Parliament. Because if you wanted to make your argument against what your colleague said if you had it, you'd have had that chance, but I advised her. You said no. So it's not about denying freedom of speech, or anything you're trying to wave with right now, fascinated by the hope that the media will pass it on to you. That's not true! It's simply not true because I offered you and my colleagues Bulu the very clear possibility that a business opportunity exists, he accepted it you deliberately did not accept it so that you could cause the kind of circus you are causing. But good! This people can appreciate or recognize it. Now we have three injuries to the Rules of Procedure. The first is Honorable Representative Margaret Mađeric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8907	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Honorable Representative injured Rules of Procedure of Article 238, disdaining and insulting the presidents and MPs and MPs, which I consider to be inadmissible and yet false. It's nothing strange or new to you, Your Honor, but I'm asking you to control yourselves. I understand that you are frustrated, and you are particularly frustrated often and you do not hide what the President of the Republic is exactly Mrs. Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic. So she is Mrs. Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic, president of the Republic of Croatia. I understand that it wasn't your choice and that perhaps you can hardly understand that someone who received money from the election campaign invests and that those who need it most and who find it most difficult. You'd rather have your candidate put all the money in the SDP and your party but that's your problem. I understand your frustration, but please do not violate the Rules of Procedure, insult MPs and representatives and presidents of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8908	Thank you very much. Next, he sought the violation of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative, Josip Boris. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8909	Thank you very much, President. So I think it was the basis for me to base Article 240. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, which states that the MP will be warned by taking away the word if he continues to act contrary to Article 238 of the Rules of Procedure, which is why he has already been warned, and in Article 238 he writes to belittled or insulted by the President or other MPs. He does it really continuously, and you should have given him a reminder by taking away his words because today he took advantage of the opportunity to solve some of his frustrations. The genealogy of his behaviour, especially toward his colleague Vukovac, was somewhat more in the past, she was a lady who said that it was Mr. Stazic's fault that there was a shooting of some possible coalition between the SDP and the Most when somewhere in a conversation between him and fellow Hrelje if we remember correctly he said that MOST should be broken, divided and that they needed only a few of them. And he's already repeatedly attacked Mrs. Vukovac several times, and I followed it. There are many, could even be said to express certain feelings of some hatred for this lady. That's why he should be warned not to act anymore, because he was the vice president of this house and he knows what he was doing as such.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8910	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker has also committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8911	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, you violated the Rules of Procedure because you did not warn fellow Stazic. Because sometimes in the great democratic times that took place in this assembly, Col. Stazic used the business provision of Article 239 and 240 for such speeches, taking away his word and sharing his remarks with his hand and hat. So much for democracy, but when the beating is in someone else's hand, I therefore believe that you violated the Rules of Procedure because you did not interrupt it in accordance with Article 240. The Rules of Procedure, and Croatian citizens had the opportunity to convince themselves of the great democracy of fellow Stazic especially in the afternoon. I personally received a few times warning of far fewer things than what he had just said.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8912	Thank you very much. Comrade Martinovic, do you have anything to say? Here you go. ... No, we in this house find it unusual to communicate in such a way as to shout from our place. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I know it's your way, but I'm asking you not to act like it. Regarding these injuries to the Rules of Procedure I will only say that fellow Stazic has received a warning, and I am trying not to react in the way he reacted in his own time to other things. But let's move on with the replicas. Honorable representative Miro Bulj had.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8913	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8914	And I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Here is a reply to the replica by the distinguished representative Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8915	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8916	I'm sorry my apology, I didn't realize because in the main colleague Stazic dedicated his replica to attacking me, so I didn't realize that you needed to answer, but please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8917	We didn't get a chance to take a break on behalf of the club and manifest ourselves to this communication, verbal communication as you said not by lies but by false and semi-information, but fortunately it was an individual debate, so I took advantage of it. Unfortunately, once again, this is a good law, excellent law, a law that is needed and the resources that are good for the Republic of Croatia and the water utility sector, and instead of waiting for our possible debate, we have waited for the responders' answers, and the debate has gone in the direction of seeing why this law was late or not 2, 3 months ago, whether we have prepared projects, whether the projects are valid, whether they can begin to be realised, whether public tenders and selected potential, determined strict procedures to choose the performers themselves are now back here to the great disaster we have and discuss it in a totally banal, demagogue, political and cheap way without real arguments and data. Once again, we had the law under which it was done, we had 17, 18 months of reports in the Government of the Republic of Croatia on all the activities that were undertaken after the flood itself and the restoration and in everything else with a statement of financial resources and everyone could have looked at it. If it's necessary to open a discussion in this home of my colleague Shucker, I'm here to do the same. We're not ashamed as the last government of everything we've done, we've done the maximum, if we want most of the settlements that are hit there are made, and completely new connections have been made, the new network, are connected free of charge, which things have been done because these people really died in a major disaster, and collecting cheap political points with semi-information is definitely not correct. And that's why it was our intervention to actually make it clear to the situation as well as the fact that we are talking and I expect if you find it difficult to look at the materials of the last government that report, or we'll ask the Ministry of Resent, and we'll get a full report on what all services, professional services, what the administrative parts or certain administrations have done and how much it cost taxpayers, or what it was for the benefit of the end-users themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8918	Thank you very much. The next is a replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8919	My fellow Jacob, no one has offended you, nor has anyone been disdaining you. So here are the arguments that you of course have time to correct or not correct, but the fact that, personally, in the Cetina area, farmers who are few have collected haystacks, I have arranged for them here personally, both haystacks and other food grains that we've been resting in the constituencies seems to me in the Germans or I don't know exactly where it would be. I personally organized it as I organized and collected food and not just here, along with association IV. Guard brigades, Special Police, all associations have joined the Homeland War, as well as civil society and numerous volunteers. So the fact that it was a need for food, that institutions didn't do their jobs or do the preparation. However, the fact is that, as I recall from the public that you asked for a report from international experts, what happened with the embankment, I don't know, I think that, if you did, it's a big slap on the domestic experts and do you even have the results of international experts if this is true and if you asked what was then in public that international experts do an analysis of what happened to the embankment on the part where it broke.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8920	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative of Tihomir Jakovina will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8921	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleague Bulj, I agree with you, were it weeks or months when Croatia showed its great heart when through a large number of volunteers, through a large number of associations of people who physically came to the field in the first days of help but especially through all those humanitarian actions that were done afterwards, not only in the segment of collecting cattle or voluminosis shadows and similar to what we did we showed in what way we all tried to reduce both the pain and the damage of those people who were really in disaster. And that's not questionable. This part of me have no doubt that you are probably in your city and in your region as well, but the question is whether or not it was necessary in any way. It showed good intentions, showed great heart, showed desire to help. But once again I say the system has secured for the entire livestock fund a sufficient amount of food and professional veterinary care for the entire livestock fund. The Ministry of Agriculture is one of the few ministries, I think the colleague of the Dark who opened the Minimal, and I think that for two to three days we had office time, a defacto office and an advisory service, and all those who were supposed to be on the ground, who were supposed to be direct or indirect help to the people who got hurt, we were there for months. Nothing was missing, everything was well organized, everything was as transparent as it was spent on it and this was just another good thing why some things were helped and thus through humanitarian collection actions. As to the analysis of the cause of the fissure, it wasn't exclusively the Commission or commission as you say from international experts, it was mixed, it was also our top experts and we wanted an objective report, hydraulic, fracture or crack... A dikes that were built 4 years ago as a new, big investment of 20 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This report is in the archives of Croatian waters. Feel free to request or request an explanation from employees of Croatian Waters.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8922	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8923	Thank you very much, President. So today, here in this assembly, my community is also called what I find very embarrassing and malicious for reasons because precisely in my municipality that was not affected by the flood, but out of solidarity not only for those of us who were in the community but also for all of my locals who were even 800 in the rescue campaign, I have to react. So my locals weren't just on day and night, they were filling sandbags, bringing home all the equipment they had, actively doing everything that was put in front of them. The community even made sandwiches, bought tarp, bags, brought sand. Whatever we could do, we did it, and that's why we earned a dozen compliments from both the mayor and several of the commissioners. Mostly there was even help from abroad that came through us. We first delivered the mats on which people who had left their homes could actually lie down and sleep and leave their children behind. We took all the praises even though the praises were really irrelevant, what we could do we did. On the other hand, what actually hit me was that on the night that the rash broke, I was there listening all night when she was actually in the power of a ban on saving cattle even to the owners of cattle, listening and, I don't know what to call it, but these are the groanings of animals that die, no one helped them. I'm talking about this moment, and I have to talk about this moment, although it may not be this situation because I'm carrying that anger in me and I never got a chance to talk about it anywhere. And on the other hand, what I mentioned, which is the relationship of the former minister to livestock, I did not make that conclusion just on the basis of the results of the flood, but in general, means statistics, i.e. the figures talk about the decimated dairy producers on the ground, about slaughterhouses that are daily key to our cattle, about the absence of rejuvenation and similar figures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8924	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative of Tihomir Jakovina will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8925	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear fellow MPs, so it is commendable but understandable that Slavons have come to help their neighbours and that we have all been to the most critical places in those days and done all the jobs that were needed from loading bags with sand to logistics to activists themselves involved in the defense. What I said, I said we should know as head or head of the local self-government unit that you, as well as any other municipal chief or mayor at the head of the protection and rescue headquarters, that each mayor is at the head of headquarters, county headquarters and that in the case of elemental disasters, the measures against the flood are handled accordingly. When you talk about these terrible scenes that I believe were not easy on you after the crack of the embankment, once again I will repeat 24 hours before a state of emergency was declared and that was the time when it was necessary to react and when possible damage was to be reduced and to evacuated. The moment we had two big, huge cracks, when she was driving Sava wild, she was spilling through the Slavonic plain, letting people go and risking people's lives to save the animal fund, I'm sorry, that's not. You should have done it before. I mentioned it or I will repeat it, excellent cooperation or way of working on the headquarters of Brod-Posavina County which was terribly exposed to a potential crack in the city centre and densely populated settlements where the Station of the City of Brod worked, the county headquarters, myself personally with associates where we have both prevented and evacuated the population and evacuated valuable equipment, machines, animal funds and other things and fortunately managed to defend and dilute and did not occur. So it could be done, don't move the blame or expect that maybe I, as a resolute minister, should have gone personally and in the night, shouldn't have done it before, we solved the damage that happened in that work so that there wouldn't be an epidemic, that there wouldn't be profits and things like that, and for that part of the surviving livestock fund we did everything, we took measures to save it and revitalize it as soon as possible, and about the results and work, so I haven't been a minister for a few months now. What's going on, going cattle on slaughters from the slaughterhouse work full steam, ask your fellow Romaman.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8926	Thank you very much. And the last replica is Antun Vidakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8927	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleague Jakovina. I would have commended this, and I didn't mean to answer but your opening part when you had an individual debate is quite acceptable, that it's good and that we'll all vote on it. But then you touched the flood in a way you can't and can't say, the flood happens because of the systematic don't worry about the Sava River. For many years, we've banned, let's say, now that you don't happen to feel called, we've banned gravel and so we've banned the extraction of gravel and sand. Sava protects himself with her rashes that were made at the end of the '50s as well as her huge induction belt. There's no windfall in the Sava River, so the lines of the cross-sectional profile of the river are raised from about two metres to two feet. The state should take care of it, so I'm asking Mr. Majdak to listen, to maintain the level 4 airworthiness that's been reduced to 3 in Sava and somewhere not even to 2. So that's a geodetic question, let me tell you about it. If you're hoping for a tight induction belt, if you're not raising a Veduta Save, and the stock quota is fixed, the amount of water can be calculated and this especially Croatian water knows up to in detail, then it's a technical question. So, in that sense, there may be new floods again if we don't finally hear from our river boaters and sequins and all of what he said, that he got a concession at the port in Osijek and that he had his spring made and that it took him six months to wait, etc. These are issues that should be addressed and not now taken by colleagues of Stazic. That's unnecessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8928	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative of Tihomir Jakovina will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8929	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear colleague, most of the things I can actually agree with you. And my presentation on behalf of the Club was very affirmative and I expected and eagerly still look forward to the proposals on these issues that are important for the implementation of this law and for the potential early use and economic effect, etc. I agree with you and this that the banks on the Sava River were made at other times with some potential parameters, calculations that were worth 100-year averages which are now due to changes in climate opportunities and due to higher rainfalls and anything that happens inappropriate or much greater than they are. The only thing you can remember is that this rash was done in 2010 and 2011, four years before the crack, a new rash just broke on that part and not on a 50-year-old embankment. And that's why I think there's still certain actions of senior institutions being done how that very part of the diaphragm has been cracked and if we're doing something new, then it should probably be the best. I think that only though I've been president of the board of directors and resorts and advocated and I'll always stand for going to make our rivers the wateriest we've been able to do, and that's what we've been doing for the past four years. I hope that trend continues and that positive effects will be achieved in the Sava River, but not only that. Squawking and sanding, or editing the riverbed, will not solve all the problems. I think we need to work on investing and making a significant investment in new flood defense systems, in flooded and new embankments that will actually reduce the potential in the case of these large de facto falls and millennium waters of consciousness, possible damage as little as possible. But we also have to edit the system, we need to make it legal again or through flood defense plans so that every segment does its part of the job and not that the government of the Republic of Croatia has to declare a disaster so that it can go out in the field and bring order in the best way.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8930	Thank you very much. And now we're going to cut back on the last individual debate, which is the esteemed representative of Davor Penic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8931	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm going to speak very differently about this law that caused this debate. Framework loan agreement for the financing of the flood protection project to improve, restore and upgrade 25 projects within 15 systems on two plums and all in accordance with the Water Management Strategy and the multiannual programme for the construction of water and water regulation and protection structures. It is good that this project will also include a Study on flood risk management and project preparation. The value of the project is 80 million, sources of funding 40 million will be given to Croatian water, and 40 million will be the loan of CEB. Therefore, the project will be financed from the original revenues of Croatian Waters or will be financed by Croatian citizens in translation. So there will be no burden on the Republic of Croatia's budget. What are the problems with this approach? We have great water potential, but we don't have a developed irrigation system. Then, we allowed the construction of the wrong spatial planning on the natural retentions of some plums. Let's say the right side of Neretva. That's what they're called. water defenceless areas and even insurance companies when you go to secure a facility or an economic facility or a building or a house will not provide you because of what you are in the area, a watery defenceless area. 2009 The Water Act abolished the concessions on seines so that the river troughs that had a preventative effect on flood defenses had ceased to be cleaned. We should answer the question with this project whether it is necessary to constantly raise the level of the dam or clean the trough. It's a philosophical question and it will give the right answer to this topic. If we see that every project has to have an environmental impact study, everyone will say that gravel and sand clean water. That's right. But in the flood protection project, we need to find a measure of water protection and environmental protection against that water. You know that's it. At the end of the climate change, the sea level will rise, which will also prevent the swelling of that water into the sea. And that's what we have to think about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8932	Thank you very much. I would therefore conclude the debate and give my word to the esteemed Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Tugomir Majdak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8933	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives and MPs. Here's a thank you for the debate, so this bill. Thank you for your support, possibly the vote of this law on Friday. We heard assistant Kos and my littleness a lot and suggestions to improve the system both against floods and in the section of gravel, means the troughs of our rivers, but also in part of what is necessary for the development of intensive agriculture in Croatia, which is irrigation. So here's what I can conclude and answer some questions that have been asked. As far as we're concerned, here's the regular maintenance of water treatment, that's also gravel, which is in the domain of Croatian Waters and Waterway Agency. Cleaning and removing the application as well as cleaning the water flow means according to the programme A2 under the management of the waters of Croatian waters according to the Water Act. This activity is also carried out through concessions. I will only grant concessions for the Osijek port area in the amount of 750 000 cubic metres over a three-year period. Here in that part also the Ministry of Agriculture, Croatian Waters are working intensively to improve the system and thank you for your discussion, questions about this part. As regards the projects themselves within the framework, the indicative lists that would ultimately be implemented through this bill and the law and all projects on the indicative list have, means an environmental impact study or a solution that the Environmental Impact Study does not need in accordance with the applicable regulations. Under the terms of the loan framework contract, the costs related to sub-projects from the indicative list, including design, construction, expert supervision and other eligible costs, are eligible for financing from the project after 1 January 2013. Since sub-projects on the indicative list were selected taking into account the degree of their willingness to realise a number of sub-projects from the indicative list are already in the realization phase, and the cost of contracts concluded after 1 January as I have already said will be able to retroactively finance from the project. The total implementation of sub-projects from the indicative list by the end of 2015 was around 107 million kuna, and the planned implementation on sub-projects with indicative lists according to the water management plan for 2016 amounts to around 75 million kuna. We also owe it to CEB to report on the status of these projects regularly. That's why we call this the indicative list as Appendix 2 of this law. As far as your questions are concerned, it means system action, whether or not we have a system of flood defenses worked out. So we have a systematic action according to the meaning of doing that and studying for river basins. And about irrigation as I have pointed out as one of the strategic goals of this government as well as the former governments. All the batteries that are built are multi-purpose, so they are also used to irrigate all the accumulations in the flood defense function. So here I am announcing this opportunity and the first tender for measure 4.3, which will be implemented by the next month in the first quarter, i.e. in the first decade of the following month after the programme was approved last year, the rural development programme approved last year. And from that measure, the regional self-government units in a total 98m-euro Allocation will implement about 40 projects to a total of about 30,000 hectares of watered surfaces. This is a major requirement, a very important measure under the rural development programme and users are units of regional self-government. As far as the rink is concerned, skating points where it is part of the water belt, means Croatian waters together with local self-government units co-finance such projects if they are caused by harmful water action, and if these projects are an integral part of flood defence projects. Also, this section of the rink as part of the public water supply is also part of the Ministry of Environmental and Nature Protection. And the water contribution goes 8%, so the question was the unit of local self-government, it was paid in their area for the storm drain, and the fees paid by citizens, the charges for use, water protection fees, water treatment fees and water contributions are returned in the form of projects in the area of local self-government units according to priorities. Here is the last reminder, the water management plan is published on the Croatian Waters network and as such is a public document and you can read in that part everything you want in the part of Croatian water management. Here, if there are any more questions on this final part of my bill, I am at my disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8934	Thank you. Dear Representative Milorad Batinic came to the floor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8935	Thank you, Vice President. Namely, Deputy when you spoke about these water fees and water contribution that 8% from the water contribution, 5% with the basis of the water treatment fee, with the provision of a water treatment fee to collect local self-government units in their area for the account of Croatian Waters. I believe you're aware, and if you're not able to document it, that 5% is not enough. And we from the HNS Club as we were last year, too, and unfortunately, we're going to refer to the process of amending the Water Economy Act where we're going to propose something else. Namely, for what reason? Water contribution if we put in a certain analogy of water contribution, municipal contribution, water compensation, municipal compensation none of these funds, or very little, that is 8%, remains at the level of local self-government. The Water Act defines certain channels, priorities for regulation, whether this is the first category, second, but in practice the waterers are still talking about some categories that are not within the law. Practice is one thing, the law is another. And the fact is that what you said about realising the return of the funds and going through the implementation of the project at local level is insufficient or as much as it is alimony in the area of local self-government never returns to that extent. We are aware that funds are collected and spent on the basis of solidarity, however, we have also had certain reports that in certain areas of the Republic of Croatia there are different percentages of the collection of these funds. Some units don't even pick up, but they do Croatian waters, but it doesn't matter. So, we're going to go with a proposal to more evenly and justly deploy those funds and that one major part of these funds than it is now at the level of local self-government, that it has the initial means that it can react at certain times, primarily in terms of preventing swimming.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8936	Thank you. Mr. Majdak will respond, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8937	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, here's every suggestion we'll consider, thank you for taking advantage of this opportunity to suggest improvement in the system as far as possible. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8938	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8939	The following is the Final Proposal for a Law confirming a framework loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe Development Bank for a flood protection project, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.31. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of a framework loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe Development Bank for a flood protection project. Please vote, who's in favour? I'm asking for a result. 127 votes in favour, none against or abstention. I note that the draft Law on the confirmation of a loan framework agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe Development Bank for a flood protection project has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8940	We're going to the next item on the agenda. - Report on the effectiveness of the implementation of the measures set out in the Strategy for the Development of Tourism of the Republic of Croatia by 2020 is submitted by the State Audit Office pursuant to Article 9. The State Audit Office Act. The materials were sent to the Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget whose report you received at the session, as well as the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. For further reasons here is Chief State Auditor Mr Ivan Klesic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8941	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed MPs and MPs. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on the State Audit Office, the Office provided the Croatian Assembly with a report on the effectiveness of the implementation of the measures set out in the Strategy for the Development of Tourism of the Republic of Croatia by 2020. The main objective of this review was to assess the effectiveness of the implementation of the measures set out in the strategy, and this was achieved through an assessment of the legislative and institutional framework established for the implementation of the strategy by taking into account the activities of the implementation of the specific actions set out in the action plan and by analysing and comparing the planned and achieved indicators and effects. The aim of the revision was also to assess the implementation of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on cooperation in the field of tourism and contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Hungary on tourism cooperation. The audit was carried out in co-ordinated with the State Audit Office of the Republic of Macedonia and the State Audit Office of Hungary, and a joint report was drawn up which you received. The audit entities were the Ministry of Tourism, the Croatian Tourist Board and the Interminist Council for Tourism. The tourism development strategy was adopted by the Croatian Parliament in April 2013. Part of the strategy is an action plan containing 26 priority measures of tourism policy to be implemented from 2013 to 2020. The revision covered 9 measures of which are 4 of the high priority and 5 of the medium-high priority measures. Since the high priority measure was to be implemented or implemented by a large part by the end of 2015 and the implementation of the medium-priority measures was to begin in 2014. The audit found that four measures were implemented, two high priorities and two medium priorities, while three measures were not implemented and one high priority and two medium priorities. In part, one high priority measure and one medium priority measure were implemented. The following measures have been implemented to accelerate investment activities by passing a special law, then by developing a strategic marketing plan for Croatian tourism, by further promoting investment in tourism, and by positioning the Ministry of Tourism as an intermediate body in the operational structure for the management of the EU funds use process between 2014 and 2020. The following measures have not been implemented, which is the definition of unique criteria for strategic planning of tourism development and the development of strategic tourism development plans at county or local level, then the re-design of tourist communities systems and the construction of an efficient tourist destination management system and the continued development of a satellite tourism account of the Republic of Croatia and regional satellite accounts of tourism. In part, measures have been implemented to harmonise and improve the legal framework in the capacity to strengthen entrepreneurship and investment and to develop and adopt a national lifelong learning programme. On the basis of the facts set out, the State Audit Office has assessed that the implementation of the measures is partially effective and has made the following recommendations: in order to increase the effectiveness of the competent authorities in implementing the measures identified by the strategy and to improve cooperation in the field of tourism with the Republic of Macedonia, the State Audit Office has made the following recommendations: it is necessary to establish an independent department for the implementation and monitoring of the tourism development strategy in accordance with the provisions of the Internal Design Regulation of the Ministry of Tourism and Strategy. Then hold meetings of the Inter-minister Expert Council for Tourism, adopt annual action plans, implement a strategy with defined activities, deadlines and operators of activities, amend the strategy in such a way that the annual action plans of implementation of the Strategy are adopted by the Inter-minister Expert Council for Tourism, which provides the Government of Croatia with a report on the implementation of annual action plans, continue with the process of removing various restrictions, implement the activities in order to adopt the Law on Temporary Affairs of Change and Supplements to the Law on Tourism and Other Building Lands unassessed in the process of conversion and privatisation, as well as amending and supplementing the legislative regulations relating to maritime good and maritime ports, establish an institutional framework for the systematic implementation of lifelong learning for tourism employees, speed up activities to implement the assumptions for the rebuilding of tourism communities and the construction of tourist destination management systems, including the creation of the new Law on tourism and tourism communities, which need to promote the tourism communities. Furthermore, determine the way in which the strategic marketing plan will be applied in the strategic and other documents of the tourism systems in order to realise the objectives planned in that document. To establish a working group for the periodic production of a satellite tourism account of the Republic of Croatia, to agree on a plan of activities to ensure information, organisational and interinstitutional assumptions, to propose measures to improve the statistical system. Then, take the necessary measures and speed up activities to employ the planned number of employees in the business of using EU funds in cooperation with bodies participating in the management and implementation of programmes in which the Ministry of Tourism is not part of the management and control system but it is possible to finance the programme for tourism, plan activities to ensure the implementation of the project in tourism. It also proposes to take further action to increase the level of information and knowledge of potential EU fund users for tourism purposes. The objectives and expected effects should be clear and measurable, determined in a way that allows for a uniform verification of their performance. It is necessary to monitor the implementation of the benefits and indicators for which there is available statistics or for those for which there is no available data to launch activities to investigate tourism activities as a complement to the existing system of statistical research. In cooperation with the Croatian Tourist Board with the new information system, it is necessary to improve the monitoring of the effects in order to coordinate the common methodological basis to be used by the Croatian Tourist Board and the tourism community at regional and local level. Then coordinate and link strategic long-term and medium-term planning of budgetary planning in a way to bring the objectives, indicators of results and impacts into line and to ensure financial resources for the implementation of those activities. Finally, it is necessary to implement the agreement of the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on cooperation in the field of tourism. The State Audit Office assessed that the implementation of those recommendations would increase the effectiveness of the implementation of the measures set out in the strategic tourism development documents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8942	Thank you. We're moving on to the committee reporter. Is he here? No, we don't have a chairman of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget here. I'm opening a debate. The first word is on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club, distinguished representative Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8943	Thank you very much, Vice President, the distinguished representatives of the state audit. When we talk about the Tourism Development Strategy, I am talking about the most important development document of Croatian tourism adopted by the Croatian Parliament in April 2013 called the Strategy for the Development of Tourism of the Republic of Croatia by 2020. The strategy defines the direction, measures and objectives of the development of tourism in the Republic of Croatia. But before that, we had strategic documents that are also listed in this review report. A development strategy for Croatian tourism was adopted in 1993. Then the next strategic document The concept of long-term development of Croatian tourism for a period of 10 years, which was adopted in 1998. In 2003, a strategy was adopted for the development of Croatian tourism by 2010, and then we have an opinion. a report drawn up by the Institute of Tourism during 2012 called Development Vision and Tourism Development Goals in the framework of this Strategy, which we are talking about today, which also includes an analysis of the development of Croatian tourism in the period from 2012. According to the above mentioned report, the visions and objectives of the strategic development documents adopted for earlier periods have been partially achieved, the growth of competitiveness and quality, in particular accommodation capacity and the growth of tourism importance for the national economy has been achieved. The results have also been achieved due to better transport connections, in particular by building a highway network and by creating a positive image of the Republic of Croatia. Employment in the activities of hotels and restaurants and tourist intervention has also been increased. This review find is grateful as a view of what has been done in the implementation of the Tourism Development Strategy in the Republic of Croatia in the first two years of implementation. This kind of monitoring, which has been rare so far, when we talk about the revision, we see as a prevention of possible non-implementation of certain activities, as a motive for further steps of all tourism and the Government of the Republic of Croatia that it is understood as a serious document which should mean a kind of consensus of all stakeholders in the development of tourism in the Republic of Croatia because it is an important economic activity to approach it by improvising or possible self-will of individuals. This approach is something that makes the Strategy alive and would be applicable to many of the strategies adopted in this House which are unfortunately brought and then left in some drawer and forgotten. Tourism in the Republic of Croatia has already said is one of the most important economic activities. We have as a country a good geographical location, best sea, divorced coast, numerous natural beauty, inherited rich historical heritage, a centuries-old tradition of dealing with organised tourism and very valuable workers in tourism. So we have everything we need to be top destination to tourists from all over the world. According to official data, a total of 13 million and 128 thousand arrivals of tourists who achieved a total of 66 million and 480 thousand overnight stays were achieved in 2014. The largest number of tourist arrivals in 2014 reached in hotels, then in private accommodation and slightly less in campsites. According to data from the Croatian Employment Institute in 2014 88 000 and 790 persons were employed in the catering and tourism sector, which accounts for 6.6% of all employees in the Republic of Croatia. As a tourist destination, the Republic of Croatia has increased the share of tourism in GDP, increased tourism arrivals, overnight stays and accommodation capacity, increased revenues from tourism, the number of persons employed in the accommodation activities and the preparation and service of food as well as an increasingly diverse tourist offer. In 2015 there were 14 million and 343 thousand arrivals and 71 million and 605 thousand overnight stays in tourist accommodations in the Republic of Croatia. 9.3% more arrivals and 7.7% more overnight stays compared to 2014, which means we have almost a million arrivals more and 5 million overnight stays over last year. Which shows that it is possible to do great steps that depend on a number of factors. We need to be honest and say that this is not just for the sake of strategy or just for the sake of government but is the result of many other events in the world, especially in some countries in North Africa and in the overall general, security situation around the world. This is also evidenced by strong increases in other EU countries last year. In tourism since the move of the former government of the Republic of Croatia, we remember the adoption of this strategy, which was completed by Deputy Minister Veljko Ostojic in the Assembly, then presented a new minister after only a few days and Mr Lorencin. We remember the reduction in VAT to catering services from 25% to 10%, to VAT levels that had accommodation when we talk about tourism since 2006. We also remember the increase in VAT from 10 to 13% and for accommodation and catering services shortly after the adoption of this strategy which did not recognise such a move but suggested a lower move, i.e. lower VAT than some one-digit figure to contribute to the greater competitiveness of Croatian tourism. Such VAT has many European countries, our competitors. We remember amendments to the Household Activity Act and the failed privatisation of hotel companies owned by the state. All in all moves that were not an obstacle to the results that had been achieved. Looking at what has been done by the government and the results of tourism in the Republic of Croatia, we can conclude, the role of the Government does not have to be a limiting factor of development, i.e. can't spoil it by a bad move like an increase in VAT, but it can help with some small activities. In the debate on this strategy, which took place in 2013, which was quite lively and reasoned immediately, it was clear that several objectives and measures have proved to be controversial. We emphasized too much optimism in predicting but also the complexity of statistics and the lack of real methodology which reveals this review report. We've agreed that whatever we say about tourism, it's possible that we'll just make no mistake. We were warning then that the following, I extract from that strategy, from 2013 which envisioned the strategy, the proportion of the measured accommodations measured by the number of beds in the hotels increased from 13.1 to 2021 to 18.1% while the share of camps decreased from 25.2 to 25.8. Family accommodation in households is reduced from 48.7 to 43.4. From 20-23 thousand new jobs and about tens of thousands of jobs in non-tourism activities will be opened, new investments totalling 7 billion will be realised, a total of 14.3 billion euros in total annual consumption of which 12.5 billion is spent on foreign and 1.8 billion on domestic consumption. Until 2025. 107 million overnights in commercial accommodations, 114 million overnights, 18.5 billion total consumption, means almost 11 billion more than today. 45-47 thousand newly employed in tourist activities and 13 billion new investments over a 12-year period. Unfortunately, that story, I say, led to a serious issue of seriousness written in the strategy at that time. However, we supported the adoption of such a strategy because we also need to be more realistic than optimistic with little coverage. We then warned of a system of tourist communities and not solved tourist land as major problems but also an opportunity if we know how to solve what the audit found after all. The audit found that the tourism ministry is the main and executive body for creating and implementing tourism policy in the Republic of Croatia. The Ministry of Tourism has not established an independent department for the implementation and monitoring of the tourism development strategy. In the framework of the ministry, it was established among the ministerial expert councils in order to cooperate between the ministries and the effective implementation of the strategy, the Ministerial Council for Tourism did not meet since December 2013-September 2015 and failed to carry out the tasks for which it was established. No Act on occasional transactions, amendments and additions to the laws on tourist and other construction land, unevaluated in the process of conversion and privatisation, no amendments and additions to the regulations relating to maritime good and seaports. It's one of the laws they promised us and I think for four years, every Christmas that would come, but eventually he came and stayed in the parliamentary procedure, probably there was no will to bring it. Some tourist destinations have not developed strategic plans which are the basis for further development and progress, institutional quiz systematic implementation, lifelong learning for all employees in tourism and catering has not been established. A new Law on Tourist Communities has not been adopted, and an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on cooperation in the field of tourism has not been implemented unlike the second agreement between the Government of the Republic of Hungary and the Government of Hungary. The tourism community system in 2014 numbers a total of 306 tourist communities, has an income of 805 million kuna, expenditures of 808 million kuna, this was the first year of minus, until then the pluses were recorded on revenues compared to expenditures. Employees of 815 persons, expenses for the employees of 112 million kuna. The largest number of tourist communities, 79 of them generate total revenues in 2014 from 500 thousand to millions of kuna. All 10 tourist communities have higher incomes, i.e. 7 tourist communities have revenues of more than 10 million kuna. When we look at page 43 of this report, we can conclude the following goals and the expected effects according to the strategy. The first goal - entering top 20 tourist destinations in the world according to the criteria of competitiveness, is not feasible because research has not been carried out. The second goal - improving the structure and quality of accommodation, the overall commercially located capacities of Croatian tourism in 2020 would be at 955 thousand, reached in 2014 million 2252 positive, exceeded already in the first year of implementation of the strategy for 50,000 beds and this was the goal only in 2020, the obvious problem of methodology but what is happening to us parallelly and this is the legalisation of illegally built objects. Third objective – new employment. The planned projects are estimated to have employment potential between 20 and 22 000 employees by 2020. Growth in tourism activity should ensure the employment of an additional 10,000 persons in non-tourism activities. The overall impact on job creation by 2020 is from 30-32 000 new jobs, which were achieved in 2014. 40,514 new employees who were removed from HZZ's yearbook, an overachieved target in the first year for double. And we have parallel statistics that say the number of employees is dropping. Investments, total expected investments of around 7 billion euros by 2020. 2014 2 billion and 898m euros in data from the Croatian National Bank, where it is clear that the data invested cannot be distinguished. investments in tourism. Increases in tourism consumption, total tourism consumption should be around 14 billion and 300 million euros in 2020, with foreign incoming tourism consumption in real growth of average consumption should increase from 369 euros to 465 euros in commercial accommodation capacity. We have data on the total consumption of 66.3 euros per day and 7 billion and 404m euros in total revenues in 2014. In this year, last year 2015, there were 8 billion. Increase demand. A total of 86 million overnight stays in commercial accommodation capacity are estimated by 2020. I say last year, 71 million nights were made, which is, say, a good passing result. It's the conclusion of the audit. According to the above, the Republic of Croatia is being monitored for planned effects, but some weaknesses such as the impact of the increase in accommodation capacity are also seen, since it is not clearly defined whether the number of beds, permanent beds or the number of permanent and auxiliary beds is concerned. Investments in tourism are not followed by official statistics as well as an indication of the average consumption of foreign tourists per trip, i.e. those sizes are not covered by continuous statistical monitoring or research. The effects of increasing the number of beds in accommodation facilities and the number of new employees are not realistically planned. And in the end, I'm done. We support and accept this report on the audit carried out and the effectiveness of the implementation of the measures set out in the Strategy for the Development of Tourism of the Republic of Croatia by 2020. I say once again, it is a good warning that the strategy keeps alive, conductive, that it obliges everyone to implement the measures taken and achieve the objectives, a guideline is that something should not work and something should look. How serious the state and the system need serious processes based on real methodologies and statistics so they don't fool themselves so they don't fool themselves. It's time I think we finally know how much we have in the Republic of Croatia, so that some results don't surprise us as surprised as those who were presented to us by the State Audit. The state of good and quality movement must certainly know that. The HDZ Club will once again accept this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8944	Thank you. The replica was reported by distinguished representative Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8945	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Borić, in the part where you spoke about the legislative framework as a prerequisite for the management of tourism development, you only touched those parts of the Strategy, i.e. that institutional and normative framework which is not met, I will say so. But it would be correct to mention how, however, in line with the Strategy, existing legislative frameworks, i.e. the procedures, have been quite simplified, thus helping to attract new investors with quality investment projects, but also increasing economic activity and new employment as well as the results of this audit, thus bringing about amendments and additions to the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction that were relevant for the development of investments in the Tourism Sector. Furthermore, the regulations and measures in the field of labour and employment have been amended, with the exception of the Taxation Act, for which I believe here your Government will adopt the same names. Legislative regulations of the Law on Forests and the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods have been amended. So, all these are legislative frameworks that should have significantly accelerated certain investment processes, and as I have already cited here I wish you good luck and your government to contribute to the faster implementation of such a strategy for the development of tourism that is good, which is well-set, with the adoption of the Law on Temporary Affairs, Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Tourism and Other Construction Land and Legislatives. But it's up to you now to work on her accelerated conduct.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8946	Thank you. The honourable representative Josip Boric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8947	Thank you very much. My colleagues listened more or less to what the Prime Minister from the State Audit said, Mr Klesic. He just mentioned what you were saying that I didn't want to say, that's what was done. It is clear how much measure there is, i.e. the objectives met in part by half and which is not. We have taken note of what is not, and I have cited what is not, and it is not what is very important to us in tourism, which are two laws – the Law on tourist land and the Law on maritime goods and seaports. And I said that the former government has promised us for four years, and they've told us specifically about the seaports and seaports that they'll bring it by Christmas every year. So it's been three Christmases and he stayed for the fourth Christmas in the procedure. Why didn't you? You didn't bring it because you just thought it was bad enough that you shouldn't bring it and you left it in the process, even though it was five months of time for us to pass that law. And it would be helpful if you thought it was for the benefit of the Republic of Croatia. As far as the Tourism Land Act is concerned, we have a promise from the Minister that this is a priority that I want to work on and that this will certainly happen in the term of office of this Government. I think the results are good tourism, but I said it's not because of the strategy, not because of the government alone, but because of the many processes that are happening around the world, that's how this year will mark us. I hope we can reach these numbers and overcome them, because it would be something that would allow us all to breathe a little easier, that is. and in this House are a little more relaxed, and that Croatian citizens can especially on the coast live easier and plan their activities further in part of tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8948	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Tulio Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8949	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Boric, I see that in your presentation you have just mentioned the good results when you mentioned this, that, and that, but I would like to say that I do not agree with your finding that just the results of the settlement of tourism land and the Law on Tourist Communities are the issue that is withdrawn from our popular Croatian conversion. Let us not forget that this is the same question when you mention 4 or 3 Christmases that we who are related to the problems of solving tourist land and allowing further development of tourism to wait 20 years i.e. 20 Christmases and we believe that both the new minister and the new government will recognize those proposals that we have made as a club of IDS, as well as by the former minister, because we know that regarding the reshuffle or the new Law on Tourist Communities that everything has been implemented and that the new minister has all the suggestions already in drawers. So here I expect the government to just continue as successfully as it did in the tourism sector. And once again, you mentioned as a negative or later positive increase. reduction of VAT first and then increase. Here we expect that it is always our proposal as IDS while we have participated in that government that, through the reduction of VAT, it is precisely investment for hotelers because you yourself have said in hotel accommodation that happens a small number of nights or nights. A large number of nights, but our capacity is low. Therefore, the reconstruction and reconstruction of existing hotels as well as the continuation of the construction of new tourist resorts in this direction should go right through these incentives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8950	Thank you. The honourable representative Josip Boric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8951	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, this strategy, i.e. This report on the implementation of the Tourism Development Strategy covered what was not done. Of course one big part of it did, about 70 percent of what was planned. That's not said. But we're here to discuss everyone from our corner and warn about what isn't and that whoever came, and now the new minister, knows what to do to him, and I know he knows it before he became a minister because he clearly told me then what he was going to do. And that is that, first of all, it must be tackled with this tourist land because it is something that burdens everyone who deals with tourism. As for VAT, VAT was 25% on catering services. For accommodation services, it was 10% by 2013. What we were against was that the small part that carries VAT on the catering service regarding the price I don't know about coffee, drinks, food, etc. does not put into the same relationship with the accommodation service which in tourism carries the most of the income. And if that was the government's contribution, it means that it reduces from 25 to 10 what's a small part of the profit so that we can raise everything together to 13%, and what's been lower since 2006, then we're doing a bear service to tourism. And no one can justify the government's move as a move to contribute to the competitiveness of Croatian tourism. That's what we clearly said here. However, we see from the results that it does not prevent tourists from coming in as many numbers as it was last year and coming to the Republic of Croatia. That's why I said the government can't do too much or spoil it, but by a large number of activities, maybe it can fix something. And tourism I say depends on a lot of other factors, not just government, strategy, minister or ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8952	Thank you. I'm now setting up a recess and a continuation of the session at 15.00 hours. Thank you. It's 13,18 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8953	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] Dear Representative Tulio Demetlika on behalf of the IDS, PGS and the List for Rijeka. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8954	Dear Vice-President, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, the esteemed Mr. Klesic and his associates are here after the break, since here I am, for the first time, a parliamentary representative and I have a strange feeling in front of an empty hall, but on behalf of the club IDS, PGS and lists for Rijeka, we will also present our views on here this report on the audit of efficiency carried out, the implementation of the measures set out in the Strategy for the Development of Tourism of the Republic of Croatia by 2020. First of all, I want to congratulate and review, but they have taught us with their professional reports to do it perfectly professionally and to us, not only us but all those involved in the audits to do their job even better and better. But I will also refer to this important document, namely the Croatia Tourism Development Strategy by 2020, was adopted in this home exactly 3 years ago. And let me say that was the first real strategy of tourism brought into our country. Although we can all agree that tourism is exactly the most pro-pulsory branch of our economy. At the time of Minister Veljko Ostojic and his successor, Darko Lorencin, worked on the strategy at the time. Of course, this way I can express the satisfaction that this strategy for tourism development is the way for the development of Croatian tourism by 2020 and that this strategy was written and adopted at a time when the IDS took responsibility and tourism policy in Croatia. The tourism development strategy until 2020 has analysed the current situation in our tourism and has set goals that must be achieved by the end of the period. The strategy defines the desirable development of Croatian tourism, which involves the management of resources that meet the basic economic, social and aesthetic criteria of long-term sustainable business with the growth of well-being, the preservation of cultural integrity and vital environmental systems and biodiversity. In accordance with this then vision of tourism development until 2020, the strategy is based on the following ten principles: partnership, institutional deregulation, ecologically responsible development, more than sun and sea, tourism across the entire area of the Republic of Croatia, authenticity and creativity, hoteleering as a key driver of the investment cycle, innovative market approach, production for tourism and quality culture. We believe that it is precisely with such a document that some new foundations of tourism development have been hit. From this point on, I would like to remind you of the tourist numbers that were achieved during the period as the IDS ministers managed and I would dare tell these only European and global scales of a competitive Croatian product, i.e. from the moment of adoption of the strategy in this House. In the past 4 years, tourism policy in Croatia has made a significant turn in relation to the situation before that time. Tourism traffic has increased to 14.5 million guests in 2015 and almost 80 million overnight stays since 2011 when Croatia visited 11.7 million guests. So, between 2011 and 2015, 26.5% growth in arrivals and 21% in nights was achieved. Foreign guests' revenues in 2011 amounted to 6.62 billion euros and in 2014. 7.4 billion euros, representing a growth of 11.8%, with nearly 8 billion euros for 2015, or if we are to be exact 7.92 billion, which is 7.6% compared to the previous year. These figures that point to constant growth, both tourism and tourism revenues are not the result of chance but of Croatia's tourism policy moving towards the Tourism Development Strategy from 2014 to 2020, which we won in the Assembly in 2013. Furthermore, in order to increase tourism traffic and revenue, it was necessary to resolve the indivisible tourist companies on the edge of bankruptcy. This is where we think differently from our colleague Boris, namely for 8 companies, a restructuring plan has been adopted before the relevant settlement councils and 6 companies have concluded a deal before the competent commercial court. We have to say that in these 8 societies for 6 a strategic partner has been found until for two societies a restructuring plan provides for a connection with strategic partners. The estimated investment in companies' assets proposed by strategic partners in pre-bank settlement procedures is 861 million 400,000 kuna over a period of 5 years. We can conclude that 80% of these companies still have a new opportunity to work, a new life, and if nothing else is kept, they are existing jobs in these companies. I would like to remind you that in the past 4 years, a new Law on Attending Activity as well as a series of regulations that enables even more quality implementation of the categorisation of objects in tourism but also simplification of procedures and removal of bureaucratic obstacles in the categorisation of new or existing objects. Furthermore, a whole series of action plans envisioned by the strategy, action plans for cultural and health tourism, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, family accommodation and social tourism have been adopted. A new strategic marketing plan was adopted in Croatia by 2020, which started a new branding of Croatia as a year-round destination. Croatia 365 project has been launched with the aim of promoting other products, not just the sun and the sea. And I would like to point out that precisely in all these plans, projects, action plans is the Ministry of Tourism in cooperation and in a partnership relationship with all participants, whether in the public or private sector they have established such cooperation as to result in these results. So this data indicates the justification for adopting the Tourism Development Strategy as well as its implementation which is very important for meaningful and long-term political policy, which ultimately results in such figures. I would like as much as anyone else, as in this House, and throughout our country, so that the economy of Croatia will continue to grow at similar rates. Although we are taking note of the review report on the Croatian Tourism Development Strategy by 2020, we can in part agree with their report in the light of the figures achieved in the past period. But I can also express my surprise by the number of warnings in it. In fact, the state audit has set high criteria, strict assessments and all the warnings it has given me believe that this will be an additional impulse and an additional injection to the new minister, the new ministry to continue to carry out the measures envisaged by the strategy. I would continue to visit if the ministry had just taken the year 2015 as a passing time. So it was not considered until 2020 because by 2020 we still have 4 years to implement all the measures provided for in this strategy. But what we believe in the IDS, we think that these three points are the most important that happened by 2015, which is that according to the 2013 assessment, the strategy has outlined that by 2015, Croatia will achieve about 68 million overnight stays and 80 million nights have been achieved in 2015. Secondly, more than 1.4 billion euros were expected to be invested by 2015. And what Boric said was that statistics are once a set of false data but it seems that we are interpreting how we want and when the positive results are then we say that the glass is half empty but I will say that still the glass is half full and that those predictions that were going to come to new employment that by 2015 there were 25,000 new jobs and that 30 000 new jobs were achieved. And in the end, I'd like to point out another unfortunately curiosity for our opportunities. In fact, when we change power, we too often testify that those who come and take the most responsible duties are basically claiming that they had done nothing or almost nothing before. That's what I mean, it's just these new ones and they're starting over. Since they came to those places, a new world begins, a new life. However, as tourism is an example of Croatia's economic success, so the tourism sector is a fortunate example of the consistency and continuity of tourism policy. From this place I would like not only to praise but also to thank the new Minister, Mr. Antun Kleman, who, regardless of the political differences between his HDZ and our IDS since the first entry into office, has said that he will continue where previous Minister Lorencin has stopped, that he will continue with the good projects that Darko Lorencin has started and will upgrade those places in tourist policy that can be better. And not only did Minister Kliman say that, but we clearly see in the first hundred days that it is going towards further implementation of the Tourism Development Strategy by 2020. I am saying this because, unfortunately, there are too few examples in our political and social life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8955	Replica, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8956	Thank you very much. Here's a colleague on behalf of the IDS club said he expects this minister to work as well as the previous minister. However, we have a Croatian tourist community headed by a man from the IDS who has no days of work in tourism, has no competence, no school to be in tourism. Of course, I'm glad it's... It also developed that 370 million over the Croatian Tourist Board is leaving who knows where. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Surely I would like the Dalmatian hinterland to develop or the Dalmatian Zagora, the Cetina region and other regions of Lika and Gorski Kotar. However, you have put an absolutely wrong person in charge of the Croatian Tourist Board from IDS and these results are exclusively the fruit of our beauty, of course, but certainly the events that take place in the Middle East and many other events that affect that the climate is good for tourism. So here's the question: do you really think that in all the territory of the Republic of Croatia invested in tourism which is also beautiful? I said the Dalmatian Zagora and the ice, because I have to. Does the Croatian Tourist Board really spend money where it should be spent? Do you have any arguments that he spends them where he should spend them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8957	Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Tulio Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8958	Here's a thank you to Mr. esteemed and esteemed representative of Bull. Before I can correct you that the Director of the Tourist Board of the Republic of Croatia is not a member of the IDS, that he has come to this place and because of what you, as from the Most, are constantly promoting that you will bring experts to responsible jobs. And he has been the director of Briony Riviera for many years and what you are saying is that all of Croatia must develop properly it is precisely in this strategy that the ministers from IDS and Ostojić and Lorencin promoted that the tourist destination is all of Croatia whether from Ilock to St. Martin at the Mura, Dubrovnik and Istria. But don't forget that all these years over one third of the total product of tourism and the achievement of all these results is currently happening in the most touristic region of Istria. And for this reason, the Tourist Board, and the Law on the Tourist Community and the Minister so far, has prepared all the complete documentation for reconstruction, creating a new system of tourist communities where exactly those tourist communities will be at local levels, and we also see from the audit reports how much money is made and revenue. And we think that normally that local Tourist Board that makes even greater income to spend normally in promotion, in their destinations, their tourist products in their area. So what you've established and determined I can simply say that these facts don't hold water for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8959	Replica esteemed representative Maro Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8960	I congratulate you on this report you filed. However, it absolutely did not refer to this agenda point. You have submitted a report on the work of the IDS ministers who have really stood at the head of the most successful resorts in the Republic of Croatia, it is a resort of tourism. However, the resort of tourism was not only the most successful for the previous Croatian government but it was the most successful resort in the Republic of Croatia. If you were to talk about the report, then you would see that actually these results of their work are not the result of some strategic approach but of the fact that one large part of the Republic of Croatia's tourism is happening because of the crisis on other tourist destinations, which is why Croatia is indeed a desirable tourist destination. Here you can see here from this report that only the Ministry of Tourism formed the Interministrian Council to worry about the implementation of the Tourism Development Strategy. However, it did not meet for two years. So those who should have cared about the strategy did not care at all. So much is said of a strategic approach, so I would like so much that the new minister who also comes from Istria pays much more attention to the Strategy for Tourism Development and also here is this report of the revision, as almost all the findings we have so far had very well noticed that not only is there a country-level strategy, but at both regional and local administration levels, we do not have a lower order strategy. So in Dubrovnik, which is defined by the Tourism Development Strategy as a destination of excellence, we have tourists who absolutely do not fit into that category of tourism. So much for the strategic development of tourism in Croatia. It is certainly my appeal to this ministry to dedicate itself, to respect the Tourism Development Strategy, which is indeed a quality argument and a quality argument of the future development of the Republic of Croatia, and then you will see how much and in times of crisis it means to apply a strategicly regulated framework and how much in times of crisis when the problem is attracted to tourists without strategic access... results. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8961	Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Tulio Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8962	... I'll repeat every new one who comes in here says what happened before was worth nothing or it happened by accident. [[Specially enabled.]] You, like Mr. Bulj, said that these results came out because of some situation that is in the world, but our biggest competitors begin with the first Italian, Greek, Spanish, French, who are in the same situation as we do not achieve such results. If you take all the respected tourist agencies in the world in the last 2 years they have declared Croatia the most destination. And I claim that this is not the result of coincidence but is precisely the result of the quality work of all participants in tourism. The tourist season we know, take and compare those data before you come up with arguments that you do not check, just about the days of filling with the same capacities that the results are achieved and whether you also think that all those results in creating new additional tourist products from gastro-provide, from the opening of the rural part of tourism, in designing various events that are just drawing and putting Croatia first. Now take this last cycling race that took place in Croatia which are promotions and whether it is a coincidence or a result of some work. So now that you're in power then normally I'll repeat you don't respect and you don't want to accept what's well done in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8963	Replica, the esteemed representative of Stevo Culey. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8964	Dear Vice President, Croats and Croats, my replica would go like this. All praises to the former IDS Minister of Tourism, we really have reason to commend him because the degree of tourism development in Istria is at a peak that is very difficult for us in rural areas, especially if we do not have a minister who will have funds and competitions under way. I have to remember that there have been a lot of competitions related to tourism, so I have to remember some projects. Imagine a project by an Istrian river that receives support of up to 80,000 kuna. Imagine 80,000 kunas for Istrian spoken which room 3x3 is a round shape consisting of stones found in nature in the garden to clean the garden to reach a farmland. And that Istrian sentence was used to protect peasants from natural disasters. And now imagine a rural tourism in Slavonia, a family agricultural holding that has 5, 7 or I don't know how many family members who live from that land, from that salash, who have everything they need from cattle, horses, cows, all of them, plus farm machines that serve for the processing of land and basements, musks, garters, pigs, chickens. All of this they produce for themselves throughout the year, regardless of the number of sunny days for their lives and their survival in that Slavonian village in the rural area. And they can't get either those or rare of them to be similar again to the political 10 thousand euros or 80,000 kuna. And yet to supplement, investment in our dear, sweet Istria that I love immensely where any rural tourism can be supported by swimming pools, and now imagine in Slavonia hot when it's hot to get us a pool at an OPG. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8965	Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Tulio Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8966	Thank you. Mr. Culey and you're one of the participants who worked well with the Ministry of Tourism just as he was Mr. Lorencin, we know that. Right now I see that the Minister of Climate, continues to practice well, precisely connecting the continental part i.e. The Slavonic part and that coastal part. Is it Istria, Croatia's Primorje, Dalmatia or down Dubrovnik. The fact is that it is precisely with such integration initiatives because you as producers of quality products and we see that exactly how you looked up to the Istrian County about promoting indigenous products so that one additional offer can be created. I would say as they separate, who most separates me I think is right because of quality projects which are given that one who can give even more that it should be allowed to develop further, not to lag behind. So, if Istra is a locomotive that pulls right into the development of tourism, it's normal for them to follow me and accept this good practice. And you know well that in Slavonia precisely thanks to the good cooperation of our county joints that we also promote in Istria your products and we from Istria our products. And just with such synergy can we come to promote all of Croatia as authentic, as original and at this branding that we can achieve even more significant interest as a destination for all tourists who will come to our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8967	Thank you. Next on behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, distinguished representative Anka Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8968	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected chief auditors with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The report on the effectiveness of the implementation of the measures set out in the Tourism Development Strategy by 2020 is before us. We all have a custom to refer to the present moment. We tend to think there was nothing before and then we only refer to a certain period of time. I might have used this time and said a few facts in the introduction. The first strategy for the development of tourism in our areas was created in 1969, funded by the United Nations and not by us, then Yugoslavia was but rather by believe or not by the Danes and the Dutch. And then they did the potential of Croatia and thought about Croatia's potential, which in tourism Croatia means and the reference year was 2000 and the results of this analysis, it was called the Adriatic project, the results of which, it was a strategic document that in 2000 should be a million, 788 thousand beds or beds in Croatia. At this point, we have the latest data from 2014 million and 2000 and some indicators when it comes to tourism, and you need to look at everything. You should look at spatial indicators and traffic elements and elements of environmental and nature protection. There may still be some kind of increase or exaggeration there, but if what was realised in the strategy was certainly not further development of a quality tourism that we want to develop. What am I saying? Strategic documents are not included in stone, strategic documents are worked on a certain code year, everything in the EU was done on 2020, so this strategy was made for us in 2020, although it might be better on some elements if it were 2030 and therefore there are measures and therefore there is an action plan for the simple reason that it can be corrected on the way, so that it can be seen what has been achieved and what needs to be done. Of course the HNS Club will support this report. The report has been made extremely good and will read out of it what each of us wants to read. Someone will read the good elements, someone will read some bad elements but the figures say everything and the figures say that tourism was 17.2% in Croatia's share of GDP in 2014. Experts dealing with the economy at the level of the United Nations are saying that tourism can be maximum in the peril of one country's GDP up to 20%, if the whole economy is then related to tourism, with changes that are and that it has to be taken into account. So, that's one piece of information that businessmen should take into account, but the data that those involved in tourism, who deal with spatial planning, say that when the strategy is, the strategy has some elements that say that development restrictions and restrictions on tourism are greater along with the following. Insufficient differentiation of products and services, lack of innovative and quality content of staying guests. The growth is mainly based on the expansion of family accommodation in households, lack of quality hotel offer, insufficient good air and sea connection, static system of national marketing, too few globally branded destinations, not adequate destination tourist infrastructure and inherited orientation of the local population according to seasonal business. So, when the ministers change and you inherit the strategy, the tourism resort and inherit the strategy, it seems to me that this would be for the new resolution minister the basic element on which further objectives should be based, visions of tourism development and improve these elements and these elements are written in the strategy, and these elements are equally spoken through the action plan. And now that you see this action plan, it has measures of high priority that were read from that action plan which was to be done in 2014, 2015, those are measures 1, 2, 21 and 26, measures of the medium high priority, those are measures 11, 20, 22, 24 and 25, and what I read in this strategy, of course, that were most interesting to me because I was interested in what was realized here, what needs to be realised, what needs to be improved, and then you go in direction 1, measure 1 is our legislative framework. From the legislative framework, there are two laws that I think Boric here already has when he spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club, there are two laws that should be, which should be passed in order to perhaps even better manage the tourism resort. One law is related to building or tourist land or is called the Law on Tourism and Other Building Land, unrated in the process of conversion and privatisation. On several occasions, working groups were established, on several occasions tried to make amendments and additions to the law, on several occasions these working groups were organised by the state's attorney's office and always the opposition was about the same elements. I hope so, and I want the new minister to have more luck. And secondly, legislation is tied to the sea and seaports. I have to remind myself that for eight years now, a new law has been trying to bring about the sea and seaports, and eight years we've only been working on changes and additions and the new law has not been passed. For what reason? For the reason that it is an extremely important resource of the sea and for the reason that there are obviously a series of elements and a series of topics that may need to be defined differently. But equally, measure 1 refers to a series of laws that have been passed, a series of laws that are affirmative and a series of laws that have enabled better management of tourism resources. I would mention two laws, one is the Law on Spatial Planning, and the other is a law that speaks of forests and forests, so the Law on the Forests. Why do I mention those two laws? Something that brings the fastest profit in tourism is certainly camps. And we had legal provisions, just to maybe explain, made the following way, that the entire camp was a construction area, that you woods were supposed to be converted into a building area and that the forest was actually meant to remain what it is because if the forest remained camp would be more valuable. We have done this through these two laws, that the camp is a procedure in space, that the forest is not being reused, but remains the forest as it is and thus made it possible to make permits easier and manage existing camps. Similarly, when it comes to measures and measures in the area of legislation, there are measures two. When it comes to measure two there is mentioned the Strategic Investments Act, the AIK was mentioned, so the Agency for Investments and Competitiveness. And, of course, it is particularly emphasized that when it comes to strategic projects, they were first and foremost based on tourism and that the agency has benefited from its activities and activities both in Croatia and outside Croatia. When it comes to strategic projects related to tourism, we all somehow try to look at those big projects that talk about building new thousands and half beds, big zones, but when you look at what's going on in the world field of tourism are much more acceptable to smaller hotels, hotels that are in the built part of the cities, hotels that are created by over-use of some other facilities and more of these great, the demand for a large number of beds can be the demand for large operators who naturally recognize the destination with the number of available beds. But what can be Croatia's interest is to develop tourism on its natural and cultural heritage because we will also develop better and better and develop that part and develop tourism. Then you have one measure of measure 11 that speaks of strategies. It speaks of the fact that after the strategy was adopted at the state level that it had not been adopted at the county level, at the level of municipalities of cities but also at the level of a given area. So these strategies could have been adopted differently. And that's something that this report of ours has given an emphasis on, and of course it's one commitment that needs to be made for the future. But also what is the obligation of the restoring ministry to prescribe a methodology. Always when it comes to strategic documents of methodology are extremely important. They are important for the simple reason that you can take two strategies, one will be adopted in Slavonia and the other will be adopted already in the mentioned Istria that you can compare them in this methodology and that is the meaning of the methodology at all. Then, I see that I've made preparations for significantly longer than 15 minutes, so I'm going to cut back on some of the things that I read from this strategy and it would be good if maybe someone else, some other resolutions did. There's a 20. Measure 20 says the National Lifelong Learning Programme. And here it speaks of that some EU countries, especially when it comes to tourism, have lifelong learning that speaks and requalify certain activities related to tourism but also in terms of tourism to be taught for life. And they have been evaluated by the international, or World Tourism Association, 141 countries have been assessed on these measures. And Croatia is in 128th place according to the education of tourism workers and 85th place according to the availability of professional staff. This information is interesting, and I think there is much more to read from it if we want to improve the employment of individual sectors, we need to be flexible and this lifelong learning and adaptability is equally important when it comes to tourism and human potential in tourism. There is also one rating that is from EUROSTAT and speaks about the participation of the population between 24 and 64 years of age who are therefore involved in further education and Croatia is the last of the European Union countries with 2.6% of all countries in Denmark where it is included with 37.4%. What I mean is, when you have a document like this that's made by an excellent methodology, which is complete, which speaks of tourism... talks about a number of other things, here you have a series of data to read, which can be read, which can also serve a much wider range of activities than tourism itself and tourism-related problems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For the simple reason, then, that you can see some things here and related to EU funds, which, when it comes to tourism, the European Union funds are ready to finance. So from EU funds when it comes to tourism, what is ready to finance is the following. First and foremost education, therefore, is the frame that is related to tourism, the education of the staff. Other are specific projects, special projects for branding a specific destination. And third, they're always willing to finance these are interstate projects. The interstate project between Hungary and Croatia, especially along the border area, is evaluated here, it is about tourism that is developing there on both sides. And it is shown how it is possible to work, how it is possible to develop tourism in the continental part of Croatia with quality projects. And there was also an assessment of the agreement between Croatia and Macedonia, and it was shown in this material that there were no activities. But these activities, which have been evaluated and evaluated and financed by EU funds and related to Hungary and Croatia, have been assessed as extremely high quality, of course they were measures that developed tourism in the continental part of Croatia. I have no doubt that a new minister, thanks to a document like this, will be able to identify all the elements that need to be recognised, develop tourism further, and that we may see a new strategy in this assembly by 2030. All EU-based strategies are now under way for the 2030 code year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8969	Replica's esteemed representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8970	Dear colleagues, I sign everything you said. It could do the same again, but in Croatia, tourism in continuity from year to year is taking some period and means strategies. You said that there are several kinds of visions and, of course, more aspects of tourism and that all of them should be developed. And that's the fact and that's how it should be. However, I will repeat again as soon as we have a Croatian tourist community with 370 million kuna budget. The fact that only a political person is in this place, a person who is not competent, a person who threw out slogans if you want to waste your time, come to Plitvice Lakes. And then when the media found out, he accused his associates of letting her go, so when the media fired his employees. It is very important that this even development is very important, so let's say that we have religious tourism and that our end should not be less attractive than Istria, it's close to the Split pool, the Cetinian end we have the Sinjska alka cultural event, religiously, we have a miraculous Lady Sinjska as religious tourism, millions of people arrive in Medjugorje a year and there is an apparition 30 years ago and the miraculous Lady Sinjska is celebrated 300 years ago. But it is here after the Great Lady and Sinj Alka only then come the politicians, the guests come to Alka, the Great Lady which is beautiful and then forgets. We have nothing to show Europe and the world. So only in my neighborhood when I'm talking, no matter what we have, the airport, the lakes, the rivers and all that stuff. However, the fact that only one single end is preferred, which is in this case Istria, which I am glad it has developed, the rest of us have forgotten, and we have what to show the world, but it has not been done right, but on the political key because of the two three parliamentary MPs who would hold the majority. It's the truth and the only truth, and we can talk about strategies. In the end, I'm sorry 90% of these strategies are going to be like cabbage leaves before the rabbit comes along. Unfortunately, I'm sorry, we're beating money into strategies and none of it's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8971	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8972	Thank you very much. Comrade Bulj, I must remind you that you are also this politician who will probably come to Sinjska Alka and some other things... You didn't let me say until the end, and some other events. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] From each strategy, everyone reads what they want to read. From this strategy I read what the basics of state development are to see where we are, I compared with that strategy that was done in 69th, for the simple reason that I worked my doctoral work on quantification indicators for the development of tourism and worked on the topic of two settlements, one is Solaris and the other is Babin Cook, so I had the impression of a lot of indicators that could help me with this one strategy. From this strategy someone can read how many employees there are in tourist communities, what kind of man is at the head of the Croatian tourist community and I read where we found it is in tourism that only the missing and what should be done in the future to be better. And I absolutely agree with you there are a number of types of tourism, tourism that was, and that's why I was deliberately talking about this 69th strategy that was watching the development of the coast, it watched little and Montenegro, because it was watching all of Yugoslavia but we don't need to talk about it right now. The territory of Croatia recognized it with potential, so 1 million and 800 thousand beds. If we had 1 million and 800 thousand beds, we would only have those third, fourth, lower types of tourism because we would no longer have anything to boast about. Today, because it is not done in this way, we have something to boast about, and in the future, tourism is no longer developed on the basis of someone lying on the beach. That number of beds was obtained you know from what? From the surface of the towels and the surface of the beaches we had. This is how the number of beds are obtained, and in the future it will be obtained from religious tourism, which is certainly a great potential, from adventure tourism, cycling. Experts who deal with this can say more about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8973	Replicated representative Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8974	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues Mrak-Taritash, you have apostrophe of two key informations in this review report, which is therefore a devastating fact that only 2.8% of Croatian citizens are included in lifelong learning, which places us at the beginning of the list of European countries and on the other hand a 128 place by education of 141 countries, and 85 place by the availability of professional staff. The fact is that the Croatian education system itself did not realize the importance of recognising lifelong learning as the foundation of the education system, so you just know in the legislative framework of the Law on adult education, which is only one smaller segment of lifelong learning. I therefore find it extremely important that the education, science and technology strategy for the first time gave a strong importance to investment in lifelong learning. The curricula reform as its essential segment will also contribute to the modernisation of curriculative documents specifically related to vocational education and this tourism sector, which will increase the competitiveness and better preparation of our labour market personnel and also operational programmes, thus putting a strong emphasis on the use of funds from 2014-2020 and creating preconditions for the withdrawal of funds in this particular area. So, you see here and in the report that these centres of competence in tourism that we have imagined as a kind of pilot of projects that should be the model for all other branches and I believe that by 2020 such a serious approach and education policies will contribute to the development of tourism if, in fact, we are free of all strategies if there is no one to implement them. It is people who are the key to development and tourism development.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8975	Replicate response, distinguished representative Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8976	Thank you very much. I absolutely agree with you, not by accident, but by no chance from what I decided to say, I was just talking about lifelong education and saying that what we can always withdraw from EU funds related to education. For what reason? We can have perfect strategies, we can have beautiful hotels, we can have beautiful tourist facilities, but if there's no one to work there, we'll just walk by and watch. There are indeed facts, and this is that in the early years people need to be overqualified for other jobs and for other activities. No small number of cases occur that approximately two or three months earlier, competitions for basic staff related to tourism are being debated. So, for cleaners, for someone who maintains green areas, where relative knowledge is not some complicated thing. There was a case of an investor I had a chance to talk to and who said. He called the cleaners' tender, 30 women answered, one came to the interview, and she said, he offered a salary that was not to be embarrassed and one came and said that she was not eligible for other conditions. So we need to be ready and requalified but be ready to do jobs and do jobs outside the destination. If young people are ready or with families to go abroad, I don't see why they're not ready to go to sea and live there and work and it's equally important from this strategy to read, for the simple reason we're going to have to import labour, we're not talking about it, we don't want to talk, we talk very, very quietly, very shyly but these are really facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8977	Replica, the esteemed representative of Tulio Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8978	Dear Mrs. Dark-Taritash. I just want to confirm, I'm not going to rephrase because I'm signing everything you've said, but this particular topic that you've just repeated, lifelong learning, and we don't want to talk about today what problems tourism has had, and it already exists today, but yesterday. You mentioned the village. During the tourist season, workers or workers come to us from a less developed area, Slavonia, neighbouring BIH, simply in this competitiveness, in this fight for the market and in raising quality, this workforce is not sufficiently educated and there is certainly a need for the Ministry of Tourism, together with the Ministry of Education, to enter the process of implementing projects of the Centre of Excellence, i.e. additional vocational education, not just for tourism, we see problems in others. But in your presentation, you have touched on some more measures and that measure which also puts me on the basis of a discussion by my colleague Bulja that other, lower levels, whether the county or units of local self-government must adopt strategic plans in line with that state strategy. And now the question arises whether they do not want to draw up such documents and think about pushing into positions whether tourist communities and tourism ministries, so on this political line, they come up with funds rather than by assessing the highest quality projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8979	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8980	Well, it's always a word when we have one document, then we look at it closely sectoral. It does not need to be seen closely sectoral and this document, when it comes to tourism, needs to be seen much wider because we do have information that is also related to education, data that is related to environmental protection, data that is related to changes that must be made in, for example, forest laws, agricultural land, so a series of laws must be changed but also a number of other strategies have to do with this strategy. And of course, and what I said in the presentation, every strategy should be looked through action plans, and if it is seen in the first, two, three years that something is wrong, the strategies are just the same as the documents that need to be changed, and there is no need to have vanity or to think that something has done very wrong before, the question is the data that were the input data, but tourism is also the same activity, one branch that is very, very, very changing. A branch that is as susceptible as all other branches is to some extent and tourism is strong, from one tourist where you had someone take the apartment for two weeks, that it has been lying on the beach for two weeks and sunbathing and then gone home, it is tourism as it is, no more, no more at the level of the world and let alone at Croatia's level. It may be very convenient to say, the end of my presentation now, what is a tourist? A tourist is a man who occasionally leaves his place of permanent stay and uses another place to meet his needs that are not related to work. It is a definition that is defined, which is located in international tourism institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8981	Thank you. The next debate was held on behalf of the SDSS Club by a respected representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8982	Thank you. I welcome the state's chief auditor with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. I've decided on this debate in the participation of this debate for two reasons. The first reason is that we at the Club of SDSS and Reformists believe that tourism with agriculture today is almost basic production in the Republic of Croatia. At a time when we had one stage of fierce re-industry, or de-industriousization, I apologize for the privatisation that has done its part, in the end what remains is strong agriculture and tourism as we have. Agriculture means more than 100,000 OPGs today, which again means over 100,000 safe jobs. And that is why I, among other things, respect the topic of agriculture, and tourism itself, data is inexorable, the auditor said that there is an annual turnover of funds somewhere around 8 billion euros. It's been translated into about 60 billion kunas. Let's put that in line with the state budget with that size, and then we'll see what the importance of tourism is today for the development of our society. Not to mention that in certain areas tourism and agriculture are the only way to exist, not to mention what their colleague said about young people coming to Istria to work during the season, and unfortunately for me in Baranja once it was the other way around. Now the process is reversed. Either the young people go to the bar in Istria or they go to Ireland. There are no third alternatives today. That is why it is a subject that needs to be discussed very seriously and it is not good if we discuss ideological topics more frequently, more bile than we discuss and analyze the situation in these two areas. So we're not talking about these two topics. The second reason is certainly this quality report, so the review office report which, as a rule, sends us very high quality reports. That's the same review report. I experience it with a very professional document, analytically arranged, quality, so if we want to say to the end about those who are layers in this tourist activity can serve as an educational document, to see where it goes, what our plan was through the Tourism Development Strategy. The state office, i.e. the audit, has very high quality, defined the weak points of implementation of this strategy and pointed to those black holes that we need to correct if we want the Tourism Development Strategy that we have brought to this Croatian Parliament to realize by 2020. And that's why I'm going to look back a little bit on some of the things in this report, and we will absolutely support it, our club will support this report. It is very interesting here at the beginning, one new that we have not met before is a joint revision between the revision of the Republic of Macedonia, the State Office of the Republic of Croatia and the revision of Hungary. It's one, I guess, one very interesting project that's been implemented for the first time, that the audit is done on a joint level of three countries. We see that here you have said that there is a very reasonable reason why it is, because there is an irregularity in performing the functions of audits in 68 tourist communities. These irregularities specifically refer to strategic planning, so we see that here is called the Croatian Tourist Board, 20 tourist communities counties, the Tourist Board of Zagreb, 39 tourist communities of cities, etc. etc. That's what we'd like to say we don't have to, but we can do a pretty alarming situation in this area. What is important here to know that for me as a layman, the review specifically wanted to say and to check whether the real institutional frameworks for the implementation of the strategy we adopted were established, whether the bodies were in charge of the implementation of that strategy, whether they had started to work in quality. And in any case, the purpose of the review was to check that assumptions were provided for the use of EU funds. So these are the goals that this document wanted to say. And I think you've achieved that goal through analysis. Especially interesting data are such as previous colleagues and said that in 2013 tourism revenue was 7 billion, 7200. In 2014, the tourism revenue increased to 7 and a half billion euros, which is a respectable figure. We see that, finally, the share of tourism revenues in GDP is 17%. So it approaches that 20% limit when it comes to thinking about other things, not tourism as a major activity. It would be good if we had in that analysis the structure of participation in this, in these amounts and other parts of Croatia. So, if we analyze what participation of continental tourism is in this income structure. That would give you more quality. I don't know if you could have gotten that information, but I'd be interested in it for some other things I'll say later. It is also evident that some 89,000 people are employed through tourism. Of course that's what I said earlier and seasonally, but it's not to ignore that amount of people involved. Daily consumption was about 66 euros a day based on your statistics, which is not some big consumption. So we see what kind of tourists they're dealing with. The colleague said something before, former minister, that therefore it is not tourism if the sun is sitting and that the consumption is based on 50, 60 euros. It would be convenient to see how much this consumption is in strong tourist countries such as Spain, such as Italy, eventually Turkey, which is a very serious tourist destination. Let's see, because from this comes the character of the content of the tourist offer, how many tourists are really offered and how much money can be taken from them. Key analysis, the key finding here is the fact that you have analyzed the Development Strategy and you have said what are the limits for this strategy to be implemented. I think that's the essential thing. So, among other things, you said there was a limit to the lack of innovative content in staying guests. So that's exactly how much money he spends a day, whether 66 euros or something. The lack of quality hotel offer is connected by air, etc., not to repeat, not to read but it is interesting for experts to analyse this when a survey is conducted what the impact of these negative trends is then you can see what the fate of further implementation of this strategy is. Are we going to spend it as well as we thought we would or are it going to be difficult? You also said, which is very good for me, when you looked back on that tourist communities are basic destination management. I think that's true. Tourist communities at all levels, starting from local self-governments that have ambitions to have tourist communities to regional self-government and to a common association of the tourist community of the Republic of Croatia, therefore we see that the basic destination management does not work very well. You have also concluded that they are not sufficiently involved in creating a tourism policy and that their tasks and their management should be redefined. You also said very well, and you warned that soon if we wanted to raise the quality of the work of tourist communities we must amend the Law on Tourist Communities, the Law on memberships in tourist communities and you said very well that the Law on residence tax should be amended. And that's where I'm gonna stop for time, so I'm just gonna say one thing. So other than the sun and the sea there is tourism and somewhere else. There is a continental part of Croatia, there is a Dalmatian hinterland, there is my Slavonia and Baranja, there is my Osijek-Baranja County with very large comparative tourist advantages unfortunately unused. And then we can conclude that apart from Zagreb and Istria, Dalmatia, Dubrovnik everything else becomes terra incognito. So, an unknown country for wider tourist masses. I don't know if you know about me in Osijek-Baranja County there's some kind of river Danube, of course I'm joking, you know, there are cruisers, there are attempts at cruise tourism. We can see that this attempt isn't going exactly the way we planned it. Try some docks, port in Vukovar, Aljmash and Batini is just an attempt. And we know that Germany and Austria have raised the level of tourist services in cruises to almost greater financial effect than we have the financial effect of the entire Adriatic tourist offer. Not to mention rural tourism where lessons can certainly be given both by Austrians and Hungarians. Not to mention the wine roads where Hungarians in some kind of cooperation can be of great help. I'll just say that Hungary with its lake Balaton, the tourist wine roads, has more foreign exchange income than what I've stated to have the entire Adriatic. Therefore, it is not the basic assumption that tourism is sun and sea but that tourism is organised, indeed a strategy, a vision of how this tourism should be developed. Not to mention the Kopački rit which is the most famous ornithological reserve in all of Europe, and there are no 50 sleeping beds. If there wasn't one private initiative, there wouldn't be one. The question arises where is the state, where are the subsidies of the state, where is the development strategy of that part of continental tourism, where is the investment of the state in that space? In hunting tourism in Baranja, which was once the strongest in Europe alongside Romania? No one's investing, and we've brought it down to the lowest branches. Therefore, it is a matter to think about, just as it is necessary to think about the Dalmatian hinterland, Plitvice Lakes, central Croatia, one Supremes, a small municipality that is struggling to realise its project 2 jumping trails, or 2 skiing trails. The state isn't responding, no one's responding. And we're talking about tourism and we're talking about how we want to be a tourist strong destination. We've brought everything down to the sun, the sea and the concrete suites. They are not the foundations of modern tourism today, they need to see how a Turkish does it, how a Spanish does it, how the Greeks cashed everything and how they make money out of everything. Therefore, not to say at the end of what kind of tourism we expect, wine tourism, wine roads at my place in Slavonia and Baranja when we see yesterday, which is a phenomenon that has been current for a long time only surfaced yesterday that dissatisfaction with the police's behaviour, that from every bush a cop pops up, tests, and, alcotest checks and 2.5 thousand applications, and all of Istria has no 1 application. So you can pass Istria you don't see any cops. And now you expect wine tourism to develop around us and behind every corner is a cop who comes and checks. He's even checking to see if you've run out of first aid guarantee, time and first aid. I mean, we're making an absurde out of everything, and we expect to be a tourist destination. Once again, I may have strayed from the subject, but I needed to say these things. Congratulations to the State Audit Office on the job well done. You sent us messages. The messages are very good, we will accept this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8983	Replica, the esteemed representative of Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8984	Thank you very much. So, counterpart Horvat touched two branches of the economy, agriculture and tourism in his presentation. These are two branches of an economy that are extremely linked to external conditions, external factors. In agriculture, you have a chance to see enough to see what happened last week happen and that you have an elementary accident and that everything you've invested in a year falls apart. In tourism when it comes to tourism and if we bond only in time, our tourism is very sensitive to this element, sensitive to whether it is Easter sooner or later, whether or not the European Football Championship or, for example, this year, you have the European Football Championship and you have the Olympics and will be seen at the same time in the number and data that are economical. I was at a counseling session that was related to tourism sitting in Morocco and he asked me what tourism was like in Croatia? In Morocco, they have 10 months of stable weather, have, of course, time-bound tourism. And from this strategy to reach your point of view, you really need to get out of the future of Croatian tourism that must no longer be tied up only in time, only by the sun and only by the coast because it is an extremely sensitive branch which is then dependent on weather conditions and so much we have more or less a successful minister. If we have a minister in our four years of good time a summer then he's a successful minister because he's got good results. If they're having a bad time, so there's an Olympics, so there's some more championships, so something else happens to him in a nearby environment at the same time that data is different. Therefore, the result of such a strategy and the outcome of the future of Croatian tourism must be something completely different and not just related to time and elements that we cannot influence.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8985	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8986	I agree with an esteemed colleague, and we think exactly the same way. So tourism isn't just the sea and the sun. In addition, I said that this report very well apostropheed certain problems, i.e. the findings of the auditors are apostrophe of the problems in implementation of the strategy. Among other things, this is said, so in the part that speaks about the development constraints for implementation of the strategy, it is said that the lack of quality hotel offer, investment activity is lacking, there is still a lot missing, there is a lack and traffic connection, and there is still a series of missing to become a very serious tourist destination and not only that we have a beautiful sea, clean sea, the best and the most beautiful in the world, certainly, not to remain on it alone. We need to do a lot of things to add to that another extra value, extra quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8987	Thank you. Replica's esteemed representative, Zeljko Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8988	Dear President, listening to this exposure has good things, but we use the word strategy too much, the strategy of this, the strategy of that. I think we need a whole new manifesto on tourism, that we're in... 21st century of ecological tourism, you have... tourism etc. We have a good military history where there would certainly be a lot of people on the outside just to look at the geography of Croatia and where history battles were fought here. That's what they do, you've got guns ironing, you give him five frames, you hit the targets, it doesn't cost a lot of money. And my question, we haven't yet defined and I don't understand this termology, what is elite tourism? If Brijuni are elite tourism I know you pay downstairs on Brijuni,... You can talk later, it is also polite in every civilised society, within 10 days elite tourism on Brijuni foreign tourists pays 5,000 euros, while some representatives sitting in the Parliament, the government, the ministries of the former regime pay their thoughts and 7 kunas, etc. as they ride down on these golf cards, with big marshals' T-shirts. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's my question, what exactly is elite tourism?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8989	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8990	I don't want a colleague about this second part of your observation of Brijuni etc., it's not about assuming my argument, but what concerns my debate I'll say. I spoke on the subject of the report on the audit carried out and the effectiveness of the implementation of the measures set out in the strategy. So that's why I did mention the strategy whenever it was necessary because here it's thematically about the review report on the implementation of the strategy. If it had been otherwise defined, I would have said it differently. Otherwise, a new category called the tourism industry has now appeared everywhere in the world. So tourism is not usually walking and swimming in serious countries, developed tourism countries have become an entire industry. And we know when industry is what it implies and what all activities and social values should be built in to become a category of industry. With us, it hasn't become a category of industry yet. Then we'll probably have an answer to what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8991	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, Sabina Vosovac is next, a respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8992	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, dear colleagues and colleagues of the SDP club will support the report on the audit and effectiveness of the implementation of measures established by the strategy for the development of tourism by the Republic of Croatia by 2020. This report was actually made very substantive, in fact, and what its scope is we can see from the fact that, in addition to that analysis of the institutional and strategic framework, the state audit also dealt with the legislative form which in some ways regulates this strategy and it is as much as 14 legal acts or regulations. It wasn't really simple, but in so much of this report it was more concise and quality made. We believe that this report of yours will make it possible to improve tourism through the application of conclusions and recommendations. I believe that all of us colleagues and colleagues can agree with the claim that tourism plays an important role in the Croatian economy, that it represents a significant development potential, has an exceptional impact on economic growth, is important for attracting foreign investment, replaces classical exports and is the most intensive sector in the coastal and coastal areas. This is also confirmed by his share of GDP, which in 2017, already mentioned by colleague Mark-Taritash, was 17.2%, which is a 3.6% increase compared to 2013. Equally, we see how much it actually affects the Croatian economy as well as the revenues made from tourism. Tourism revenues were 2.7% higher compared to 2013 and were nominally slightly less than 7.5 billion euros. As a tourist destination, not only does the above mentioned increase in the share of tourism in GDP and the increase in tourism revenues, but it also notes the increase in the number of tourist arrivals, overnight stays, accommodation facilities, the number of employees in the accommodation activities and the preparation and service of food as well as the increasingly diverse tourist offer. It is visible from the comparison of tourism indicators over several years. Now the question that was raised during the morning debates is whether the Tourism Development Strategy is responsible for such indicators. What is actually the impact of the Tourism Development Strategy on this data is difficult to say, it is difficult to measure. But one thing is certain is that no serious country that holds to itself, regardless of its natural, climate, geostrategic or traffic predisposition, can leave the development of such an important economic branch to the case, the sun, the sea and good traffic connection, but the potentials must be used wisely and work on the benefit of not only our guests who visit our beautiful but also the local population and, indirectly, the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. Strategic planning is a systematic way of making basic decisions, it is one that determines the direction of action and implementation of activities over a long period of time. The most important document of Croatian tourism is the strategy for the development of tourism by the Republic of Croatia by 2020, which was adopted by the Croatian Parliament in April 2013. It was then defined by the strategic guidelines and the framework for sustainable development of tourism and key projects for the overall development of the Croatian tourism sector. If we don't know what our goal is, and if we don't know where we're going, then we can't reach our goal. So I initially said that each serious, that no serious country can allow itself to develop such an important economic branch but that it must have outlined objectives that define exactly strategies and through action or implementation plans define measures, or paths to which we will reach the objectives set. Our strategy has been set, i.e. defined the key areas of the strategy, these are under 1. Marking, further development of tourist offer, investment, development of human potential and process management. The strategy defined the direction of development of Croatian tourism and the report we have today has actually shown very clearly the advantages but also the shortcomings in the implementation of the measures identified by the 2020 Tourism Development Strategy. The audit report shows very clearly a different level of implementation of strategic objectives and expected impacts for 2013 and 2014. That is how we can see from the report that out of the 5 strategic objectives set, which I just cited a revision earlier, the planned effects have been achieved in the area of two strategic objectives. First of all, this is the planned increase in the number of accommodation capacities already achieved in 2014 in the number of beds that we were supposed to achieve by 2020. So the strategy is that by 2020 we should have 955,000 beds, i.e. accommodation facilities, and we are already in 2015 to achieve a million 2,000 and 252. The planned effects are therefore not achieved in the average capacity and share of households compared to the hotel capacities, or expected growth of the average fill-up and stagnation, or slower growth of accommodation capacities in households and in that part of that structural increase, so within the total number, we will have to work seriously as a country. The same effect was achieved in the part of tourism employment, so the strategy envisioned employment between 20 and 22 000 new persons in the tourism sector by 2020. And according to the Croatian Employment Institute data in 2014 alone, 40 thousand 514 new persons have already been employed in tourism, so it is possible to conclude what the audit itself has found in fact that if in 2013 we achieve a target that has been outlined, that is to say, we exceed the target set by 2020 or we are hyperproductive, or perhaps a successful country, or maybe these objectives are not realistic or a little undercapacitated, or lowly placed. With regard to achieving strategic objectives related to increasing the attractiveness and competitiveness of investment and consumption, further efforts should be made to achieve the expected targets by 2020, as it is not a satisfactory level of realization so far. And by 2020, 7 billion euros in investments, planned spending of 14.3 billion and 86 million overnight stays in commercial accommodation facilities are in this section. Similarly, special efforts should be made to get the Republic of Croatia into 20 leading world tourist destinations by 2020, which is in a way the first strategic goal. The example works in 2015 is therefore a shift, the Republic of Croatia is 33 places out of 140 countries followed by indicators compared to 2014 we moved by two places to the top and now for 2013 one or two depending on whether we follow the indicators shown in the table display on 44 pages where they say we were 34 places and they differ a little from those text ones that are on 100 I don't know which, 100 and some page where we say we are 35, so now I'm not sure which data is relevant for 2013. I'm saying there's a difference in the table view to 44 and a little later in the text section where it's said about 33 places, I think. As regards the measurement of investments, an investment monitoring system should be set up for tourism purposes only because the official statistics as visible from the report do not follow them. Similarly, official statistics do not follow the average consumption of foreign tourists on the journey, and it is certainly a segment in which something should be done in order to be able to monitor whether we are achieving the set, expected effects in accordance with the strategy's set action plan because we cannot do this because statistics simply do not follow the state statistical office or other relevant institutions in the way we need it. It is important to respect the serious implementation of the audit recommendations on the establishment of an institutional framework as assumptions for effective implementation of the strategy because it is a key co-ordinated activity of the body of the institution at national, regional and local level, so from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Tourism Committees of the Croatian Parliament, the Ministry of Tourism, the entire system of tourist communities and the units of regional and local self-government. It is also necessary to finally establish an independent department for the implementation and monitoring of the implementation of the tourism development strategy and yet to establish a continuous work among the ministerial expert council so that these stakeholders of the system meet in due time, exchange ideas of proposals, the adoption of annual plans, and then they can also monitor their implementation better. Another important segment is the removal of development restrictions in tourism from which, in the opinion of the field, if the tourist community has provided information through state audit questionnaires, the most significant impact has a lack of innovative and more quality guest facilities, not adequate tourist infrastructure and a lack of quality hotel offer. These are exactly three key shortcomings or developmental obstacles to the implementation or development of tourism that we have received as a fict bag by our tourist communities, by the terrain and certainly this, the removal of these shortcomings is the primary task of competent institutions. When we talk about the effectiveness of the implementation of the Action Plan, the revision covers 9 of the 26 measures. It is, of course, the measures to be implemented or implemented by the end of 2014, which includes this review report. The three measures are particularly highlighted as implemented or successfully implemented. This is positive to adopt a number of legislative solutions aimed at simplifying the legislative framework and creating a favourable investment climate for attracting new investors with quality investment projects, thereby increasing economic activity and increasing employment. Personally, I consider the extremely significant Strategic Investment Projects Act, which was adopted in November 2013, which created a strong legislative, specific framework which ensures that simplified and shortened procedures are realised, which are of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia, the implementation and importance of this law, are seen already in the previous and this year. A central place for informing potential investors has also been established. It is an investment agency, a catalogue of the market for prepared tourism investment projects and other promotional activities, investment in tourism, and has provided assumptions for the withdrawal of the European Funds for the financial period 14-20 and has been positioned by the Ministry of Tourism in the operational structure for the management of the processes for the use of the European Funds, which will enable and already enable quality programming, implementation and control of projects. The revision shows that it is necessary to make additional efforts in further harmonising and improving the legislative framework for the development of tourism, in particular through the law on occasional jobs, the Law on Tourism and Other Building Land not assessed in the process of conversion and privatisation, as well as amendments and additions to the regulations relating to maritime well-being and seaports. Mr. Boric is not here. He mentioned the law, however, it is amazing that you are actually criticising the last government that did not pass this law and that at the same time you are putting amendments and additions to that law as point 20 where this government is not being affected by this problem again, but is proposing some minor such, more cosmetic, cosmetic changes. It would be better if this Law, which is on our benches as a proposal to amend and supplement, contained solutions to remove and these legislative obstacles when we have not already done so, and perhaps we should. We should've done it for sure, but we didn't, so here's the chance to make it right, but obviously it's not gonna be a good time yet. What is important and what is seen as very missing in this report is insufficient strategic planning of tourism development and the development of plans at the county local level, the data being defeated that only 51.4% of tourism communities are in particular in nominal terms is 133, so 51.4% of tourist communities do not have a local tourism strategy at all. It is also necessary to rebuild tourist communities, build an efficient system of tourist destination management. We should perhaps be more concerned about what Mrs. Mrak-Taritash said and the revision of the strategic marketing plan and the national lifelong learning programme for tourism employees, as I said in the replica of Mrs. Mrak-Taritash, will contribute significantly to the adopted strategy of education, science and technology, the curricula reform that is under way and the operational programmes that we have put into frames, so to use investment and structural funds with pilot projects just creating a competence centre for the tourism sector in which we will offer competitive programmes, in which we will connect a stronger labour market, therefore essential stakeholders in To the tourism sector with the education system, to deliver one competitive product in terms of labour and thus to contribute to the development of the strategy, not only this Tourism Development Strategy, but also to contribute to the economic development of the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder Tepesh: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8993	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8994	I've been listening to other exhibitions, but I'd like to look back on your presentation and ask. You've brought out a lot of interesting data and what's particularly interesting is this basic material by the review. The Tourism Development Strategy is constantly highlighted by 2020, and it says in one place that the strategies are based on analysis. The strategy doesn't come from analysis, it comes from vision, goals. Then, action plan, measures, instruments etc. I don't think we have a strategy, no matter what it's formally written. Furthermore, I think we have a system of inertness in tourism that depends on weather and trouble with our competitors above all. But what I was going to ask you in 2013 was the establishment of an Interminister Expert Council which, according to the State Audit, did not meet since December 2013 until the end of 2015. So if this Interminister Expert Council has been tasked with implementing, achieving strategic specifics, and it hasn't met for a year and a half, and you were acting in power at the time, please explain how, how the strategy is meant to be achieved and why it was so simple, here. To us, tourism is too important, that is, we have come to an area of dangerous dependence on tourism, because it makes us 17% of GDP, so let's see what is, what is happening here, why this key body didn't meet so much because it was formally named so that it would be an abbey or so I don't say that they have to settle somewhere important people, or it really was a good intention, and the execution of none. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8995	Replicate response, distinguished representative Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8996	Thank you. Dear colleague, I can't agree with you that we don't have a strategy. I think for the first time we have a serious tourism development strategy to give us a chance. It was brought in 2013. It is programmed to receive concrete results by 2020. So that's our vision from the moment it was brought to the end of the decade. As far as we can see from this report, we can't exactly say that it doesn't develop or implement in the way it's imagined. There are some shortcomings here. I was also talking about the shortcomings identified by the State Audit and which should certainly be corrected, the opinion of the revision should be respected. However, I believe that when we look at more than 60 people, between 60 and 70%, measures or strategic objectives are actually implemented, and therefore measures prescribed by the action plan are implemented. Maybe not by the dynamics we'd like some of them, but most of them are. As for the work of the Inter-minister Expert Council on Tourism, I am sorry I cannot give you accurate information on why there has been a certain delay in the work of this important body because I have not been to the Ministry of Tourism and I simply do not have that information. If I had, I'd give it to you, but I think we have the opportunity, and I've pointed out myself in my presentation that it's very important that this Interministrian Council as a strategic body is functioning because it's actually what the exchange of ideas needs to project annual plans, annual plans stemming from the strategy itself and monitoring their implementation. I don't know why it didn't, but here we have the opportunity to see now from the State Audit report that something has been done, although this Interminist Expert Council has not followed the implementation of the audits very clearly shows what happened in monitoring the implementation of the strategy and the action plan itself. And I don't think we should be unhappy with this review report or its content.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8997	Thank you. Next in the debate, distinguished representative Miro Bulj, Club of Representatives of the Most.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8998	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In front of the club MOST, I can express satisfaction with the review of the measures set out in this Strategy for the Development of Tourism of the Republic of Croatia, we will support it. However, the way tourism is managed in Croatia is not good. A strategy of any kind and the issue of tourism if only developed as well as a number of other strategies, if we do not have management, if we do not have people who will manage in one good way as stated in tourism. Tourism is now 17% of GDP. These are some kind of boundaries that are broken by Professor... Lovrinović tourism is sensitive to itself as it is. If it is not managed strategically, it does not manage everything else that is needed in Croatia to make it sustainable, then it is at a dangerous level. So, we were supposed to develop tourism in all kinds not only in terms of sea, towels, sands, but we have these significant sights of tourism and a handful of things that could go beyond the tourist season for 12 months would be insufficient if the year was even longer we could be visited by tourists from Dubrovnik walls to Istria to Vukovar. However, we do not use these capacities and we are particularly in pain that during the tourist season, mostly what tourists use is not about food produced in Croatia. So we have, say, a sea with which we boast and pride and tourist activities that bring us a lot of revenue in the budget, we said 17%. So when we look to the Adriatic, most of the fish catch our Italian fishing fleets and eventually they sell it on our market. When we look at other products, agricultural products mean we are not enough, and all other resources, the capacities of equal Slavonia, of cereals, of agriculture, we did not even develop with tourism. Well, it's kind of unimaginable to me when we were talking, Mrs. Taritash's representative presented it well, around all the types of tourism that Croatia could develop. In some former strategies where it was mentioned and looking at all the capacities that Croatia has from religious tourism, cultural tourism, rural tourism, gastro tourism do we really draw the maximum of what we have, what can we get from tourism? So not directly but indirectly. Well, I was just saying, here's the mention of the Dubrovnik Walls, now I'm going to mention the example of the Chetino End one more time. Why here is religious tourism in our neighbouring Medjugorje, millions of people visit Medjugorje annually as a sanctuary, it is religious tourism. We have so many religious destinations that it is truly amazing that very few tourists visit them on this issue. I observe my Sinj where we have a miraculous Lady of Sinjska 300 years ago, this year is a celebration of the coronation of the image of our protégé of the miraculous Lady of Sinjska. Only when we have visitors, people, are for the days of Alka and the Great Lady. And about a hundred miles away 30 years ago, we have a new sanctuary in Medjugorje where millions of people visit. A story has been told in Sinj, but what does the Tourist Board do, such as local, county, state? At the state level alone, we have 370 million kuna Tourist Board. What's he doing? What's he doing? They're traveling around the world. Do they present enough Croatian tourist values in all respects? Or are these just political arrests both at local, county and state levels? Because it is unimaginable for Medjugorje to have a million people a year from religious tourism, and Sinj and the miraculous Lady of Sinj whose sanctuary is 300 years old is that it is not but only Sinj Alku which has several thousand or hundreds of thousands of people in those days alone. So, the Tourist Board is the purpose of itself, the political elites who take over power, of course, name these people. So we have people who don't deal with what they're supposed to be dealing with, but they're doing 370 million kunas to walk to the most elite hotels and fly where they need to and don't need them. Cultural tourism, I won't even tell you how many cultures we have to connect to tourism. Sports, elite, etc. Most of the facilities in Croatia do not follow as we said beds as Mrs Taritash said how the method of measuring the number of beds was towels on the beach or I do not know what to say, towels, we say shugomans and towels. We've got a few expressions, we've got Turkish and Italian, we've got everything. And that's wealth, our weak-meaning dictionary, we present. So we don't have the capacity. Why don't we have the capacity? And 370 million kunas are invested in a Tourist Board that is absolutely not functional in this way, I guarantee. I'll mention another one from my neighborhood, of course I can from other parts. Blue Alka, 300-year-old knight's game. Zeroth monument of the cultural zeroth category in UNESCO. So it connects heroism, humanity, which symbolizes freedom, which symbolizes faith, the existence of a Croatian man in these areas. At that time in battle against the Ottoman Empire. So in other parts of the country, Zrinski, we have meanings of many. I don't get it. We can't promote it? Because it's nowhere in the world. What are we doing? Conversely, during tourism, we sell foreign products, from pomira most common or tomatoes until I don't know what. And we let our fish hunt for the Italians because we can't declare it, we don't have the courage to have an exclusive economic belt and I hope we will soon. And they sell us and pack us that fish and sell us on our market. So what's the profit? What's the big deal? This strategy is important, but there are far more important people who will manage this strategy. Many in Croatia the strategy was written, I listened for years and as an ordinary man and as a soldier while I was just a strategy, a strategy, a strategy. Money is invested in these strategies. As a matter of fact, 90% of these strategies were invaluable, and this cost both the local and the county and state budgets. Croatia is a perspective state, should protect its national interests, promote tourism and its values and not be ashamed of them, any cultural, religious and any other. From this we can draw the well-being of both the future of the Croatian man and the Croatian child. In this way, as we have done so far, and to be exclusively dependent on tourism and not to develop anything else and to sell foreign products in our tourist season, you have failed and the future is lost because it is simply an unsustainable economy. And that is why all those who can help, regardless of whether they are from politics, outside politics, from the profession that Croatia is developing in the best direction and tourism should only be the supporter of this development from agriculture to the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u8999	Thank you. Replicated representative Tulio Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u9000	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Bull, I often disagree with your views, but in this presentation of yours, I will agree with much. However, the finding does not stand for you to just offer the same things. So we have long established that in today's time for vacations and trips tourists are perceived as experiences that will certainly give them much more than the sun and sea, but according to the conclusions of this report, it turns out that there is still no such comprehensive offer in Croatia that would allow tourists to fully know the destination they have come to. And that's where I agree with you. However, if the tourist offer were complete, it would lead to more time for the guest to visit all of our beauty and offers that we can offer and experience all that is offered. However, it automatically imposes a larger number of nights and a bigger one outside... consumption per guest what you want and what is set out in the study or strategy. But the following is important because the sooner regional and local tourist communities are able to manage their promotion effectively and by offering in their destination, the more importantly, the more urgent the re-emergence in the procedure of amending the Law on Tourist Communities and promoting Croatian tourism for which the Ministry of Tourism in the former Government has already drawn up a draft and the public debate has been held and therefore I urge you to put the amendment proposal in the procedure as soon as possible after the formation of the new Parliament. And another correction, that just agricultural and other products offered in tourism, was recently in Poreč where it was this combination of the coastal and continental parts where producers themselves made 70% of Croatian production for the needs of hoteliers and the tourism sector benefit from domestic sources. But so far, this has been a big problem because producers themselves have failed to deliver the quantities that tourism needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u9001	Thank you. The reply to the replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u9002	Well, I agree with you, but the fact that agricultural production isn't enough, it's not developed, so we haven't followed them gentlemen, it's not followed to our tourism. And there are simply more import products in the Republic of Croatia during the tourist season at sea and where all of them are domestic. And that's a big problem, and there's a great opportunity to develop agriculture and we have capacities. We don't have the capacity, is it impossible that the blue field or Slavonic field or karst fields remain close to the sea itself have no market. It means that someone's working for the import lobby too, now who I don't know. Somewhere he squats, because it's impossible that he's in Podrava, in Vegeta we're importing from Hungary repromatter, paprika. That's how we use it in tourism. I believe that not only tourism, tourism minister, the tourist community has here and the Ministry of Science and Education in the curriculum to introduce these areas to see it because we had facilities where hundreds of millions of millions as alkars have invested, and now these children will not be found in curricula reform and will not see it. And so in other areas in Istria. So we have development and capacity options, but now unfortunately I don't know the exact number, but a very small part of the domestic product is offered at sea to foreign tourists on the market. And that's a key problem, but hopefully we have a chance if we change things so we can develop in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u9003	Thank you. Replica's esteemed representative, Stevo Culey. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u9004	Dear Vice President, Croatians and Croats Mr. Bulj's exposure was wonderful and I wonder only one thing, you spoke of Lady Medjugorje, of course it's wonderful, I've been there twice, and I intend to continue to go because from there I bring only the most beautiful experiences. So in one of my campaigns, I wanted to get a little closer to the sanctity of the apparition on Mark's square, in the form of our Minister Ranko Ostojić, I came with other defenders to correct us a little bit, to cure us and here in the sight of the special, turtles and sacred sticks, he corrected our backs and showed all the many tourists who came here to Mark's square from the Chinese, Koreans how it helps Croatians in their diseases in Croatia. So going here to Zagreb and Medjugorje is not the same because of these promotional tourist communities. It was small in the past, but due to the future of this minister and those who inherited it, I must say that the guest is the most important security, besides food, drink, the sun, the sea and the umbrella, and it also needs security to ensure the safety of this tourist that he should make an effort with one call to the Ministry of the Interior to provide for the possible danger from terrorists who may have entered with these many refugees and in Croatia who were welcomed by our former minister, of course, because he is a good man and it is human, but it is necessary to provide how to defend those same tourists on our coast from the unprecedented events that could happen to them, so we would lose the tourist season because of 20 decades of trotillas or something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u9005	Thank you. The reply to the replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u9006	When it comes to religious tourism and I get it... The only one in the world where the Blessed Virgin Mary is celebrated, where there is a sanctuary the only one who wears a miracle that is the miraculous Lady of Sinj. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this year 300 years of coronation marks. It means that the defenders, one year after the battle over Sinj, have crowned the victory over the Turks, their Lady Sinjska with their rings. It's a terrible religious event, big and... The moment... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the tourist community can promote this. Of course we have, say, Lourdes. In Lourdes, hundreds of thousands of pilgrimages, military pilgrimages, many pilgrimages. Also here, our great-grandfathers crowned the miraculous Lady Sinjska in honor of winning over the Turks. Why shouldn't many pilgrimages be worldwide here? Why don't we promote it and what makes it a religious event, but also as a tourist event and development potential? And so many other places. It is the role of the tourist community and tourist communities. So we have to, I just compared the fact, Medjugorje millions of people and in Croatia we have a miraculous Mrs. Sinjska that comes only in the very days of the Great Lady and, of course, the people who are from the nearby parts to come and have a pilgrimage. So a very important segment is this religious tourism. And as for the rest of the tourism that you've been listing the attractions so somewhere in the world it's doing it on purpose just to... The tourist comes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, I don't think you did it in a deal.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u9007	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u9008	Dear colleague Bulj, I listened carefully to your first presentation, you spoke of tourist communities. And here, when you look at the state audit report, you see that in 2014 in the end, 804 million 963 thousand kuna and 808 million kuna is spent. So a loss of about 4 million kuna. Please comment that tourist communities have achieved their loss and tourism is progressing? Does that mean they're doing the wrong thing? No, of course not. We don't need to generalize. And do you know if there are any standards to measure the success of the individual tourist community? Because I get the impression that when a man looks at something that's wrong around here, doesn't it? And what he specifically pointed out in the cost structure is that the material expenditures of 808 million kuna, an apology from the total expenditures of 800 million kuna on the material expenditures of 65.7%. Is it perhaps known what in these material expenditures is the largest part? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u9009	Thank you. The reply to the replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u9010	Thank you very much. A fellow simply tourist community in this way manages makes no sense. 90% of what they do travel around the world and spend money on elite hotels. And this way, and the tourist communities...... Tourist community, but it's easy to prove...... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, no, it's very simple evidence. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The fact that, let's say their slogans are, I'll count one. Do you remember the affair with the choice of slogans Croatia full of life? Do you remember that affair? Do you remember the affair if you want... come to the Plitic Lakes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what people do, I don't say everyone, absolutely incompetent, I absolutely have facts. And if I had more time, I would read to you everything that the tourist community does, in fact, that it does nothing just to travel the world and not to promote Croatia, and I have proved it in the presentation of religious tourism, we have the sea, we have the coast, we have it. Do we have, then, here's what I just said to the Dalmatian Zagora, is it promoted? It's not, for what? Istria is, you know, and I'm glad but I'm sorry it's not Dalmatian Zagora and Slavonia as promoted as Istria. Because I know what the problem is, the key problem is that we had three... IDS that depended on power and of course and that's O.K., you have a legitimate right. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But you have no legitimate right that tourist community exclusively manages these resources in the interest of Istria alone, which I am pleased with as a traffic development. And O.K., that's great and where are the rest of the ends from Slavonia to the Dalmatian mountain range, the mountain cotter, the like that that are extinct? This could be discussed but Mr. Lovrinovic should be more time and perhaps more shows, so I would like him to be there and the director of the tourist community to explain well and well where money is spent not only on the state level but also on the county, regional and local, regardless of who the authorities are, each places its political counterparts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u9011	Replica's esteemed representative, Zeljko Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u9012	Dear President, I don't know if, I haven't read all of it, so I'm not, I can't be totally objective, but there's only one thing I'm going to say, with us it's always said... The plan is being developed, there's a military term saying good plan... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And there is between the plans of the performance, what is it that we lack? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are no trained people and a well-paid people. Why do we have to look when you come to Split, for example? You see down legionaries we have to get out of Italy wearing that... When the Croats make something they won't... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] by all Croatians, it improves, comes one ill-paid student and he comes behind it, I watched it once, goes the whole cohort, 100 people maybe,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's a head coming up there somewhere, it's got flip-flops and some socks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These things may be that we have to fix those details, some heads are looking at it. What about domestic tourists? The Croats... 180 billion kuna in the bank. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We don't need to go any further than the province of Sin, Mr. Bull. Look at Zagreb, the metropolis. The only thing that matters to me... Zagreb Metropolis, apart from the shift of guards, tie down there on Saturday is communist graffiti... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Graffiti. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No city is as mutilated with graphite as Zagreb. What is offered to people who come with a deeper pocket here in Zagreb? You've got some third grade strip clubs where they've got these Mickey Fines, unconsciouss, and they rob him or some of these, or they've got some kind of casino. A man can't get a nyst after midnight here. There's nothing here, there's a metropolis. This must be primarily done by domestic tourists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u9013	Thank you. Your Honor, I don't think so. The next one appeared in the replica, the esteemed representative Sabina Glasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u9014	Thank you very much. I've got a team of comic clubs here. So, dear colleague Bulj, we see from this report that, from the register of the Ministry of Tourism, 31 December 2014 in the Republic of Croatia, 316 tourist communities were founded in Croatia, the Croatian Tourist Board, 20 tourist communities of the county, the Tourist Board of Zagreb, 116 tourist communities of the cities, 142 tourist communities of the municipalities, 15 tourist communities of the city, 10 tourist communities of the area and one island tourist community. Are these tourist communities functional? Are they financial enough? Are people able to influence or create tourist policies in any other way? I'm not sure. And she was not sure about the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so she proposed to measure 21 through a strategy, which is the reconstruction of tourist communities systems, the construction of an efficient system of management of a tourist destination whose implementation envisioned that tourism communities are more involved in creating and implementing a tourist policy at tourist destination level through the establishment of regional management of destination organisations. In preparation, or worked a year and a half to prepare three laws. One of them is crucial, it is the Law on Tourist Communities and the promotion of Croatian tourism. After that year and a half, he gave up, he gave up. On page 30, you can also see that according to the explanation of the responsible person from the reconstruction of the tourist community system, due to numerous objections to the draft bill and it is concluded that such changes will be possible after the change of the territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia and the system of tourist communities will follow possible administrative division of units of local and regional self-government at the level of the Republic of Croatia. It was yours among other pre-election promises. The laws are almost done. It's all about strategy. I wish you much happiness in correcting all shortcomings and making these important decisions, and therefore also in implementing these still unimplemented measures of the tourism strategy such as measure 21.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u9015	Replica response, distinguished representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u9016	Now that I've spoken, I've talked about the cost and the community a little while ago. In local and regional communities, of course, it's hard to speak now, but it's not good about all those you've listed in number, it's not enough for the tourist community to come down alone, a tourist community worker and show certain cultural monuments to tourists. So, in my opinion, the tourism community at the state level, and I can document that to you later because you should talk more about not doing your job. They only release millions, 310 million kunas per year spend absolutely em which is not transparent, em that tourism has nothing to do with it. It's a key problem. The least important thing now is whether it will change the SDP, whether HDZ or MOST, but the fact that the situation is such that what should be promoted other than a certain part of Croatia, I note here that there should be an example of Istria. For what? Because only the political positioning of the people in this case was from the IDS and so on the local self-government depends on who is in power, will have only their own people, less water care will be guided by expertise than purely by the meaning of political similarities, but that is a fact, I can talk about their local level. Maybe not in the city where I am, but in some other options countys can also confirm this by the tourist council or the administrative bodies, it's known that some of them are going by, the whole reorganisation should go or let's say you know, your government is going into strategic investments, so it's established a commission for strategic investment, always some kind of strategy, so this commission has never met around these strategic investments. So here and here, we have strategies and basically if we don't have people to manage, if it's mismanaged then because this way it's continued to operate, then it's just going to be the same, we've written a lipo of everything and it's actually not real. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u9017	The following came to the debate, the esteemed representative Davor Penic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u9018	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. 2012 The Republic of Croatia has adopted a strategy for tourism, the main 10 points define how this tourism strategy should go in order to move tourism to the entire region of the Republic of Croatia, not just to the coastal area. It is precisely the implementation of measures or audits that monitors how these measures are implemented. In short, in 2007, we had 8.3% of GDP from tourism and last year we had 17% of GDP, so implementing measures from the economic aspect is not bad. However, the audit detected that there are developments that could be made to make even more money and that the tourist offer is increasing and going from one sensuality to a wider supply distribution and to an increase in capacity, to an increase in money withdrawal from European funds, an increase in tourism investment for the development of tourism infrastructure. And so this revision detected that no independent department was set up at the level of the Ministry of Implementation and Monitoring of the Tourism Development Strategy. The audit then said that the Interminister Expert Council had not met for two years, that no legislative framework had been established to improve and regulate entrepreneurship-enhancing functions, no law on tourism and other construction land not covered by the conversion was adopted. The Marine Good Act has not yet been passed, which I hope will soon come to debate. So it's about seaports and seaports. The audit then indicated that there was no standardised methodology for monitoring targets. Some tourist communities have not developed strategic plans and documents are not at the same level as others. It was noted by the review that tourism as well as other branches is a vital lifelong learning. Then, the strategy envisioned the reconstruction of these small regional and local tourist communities, cities and municipalities and counties that were not built. The monitoring of the implementation of the strategy was at two levels. The defined objectives have been monitored and these objectives have been pursued. Achieving the objectives set is good at increasing the accommodation capacity by some new employment, but is not achieved at the planned amount or size of capacity filling and out-of-board consumption. So the revision detected the problems stemming from the inapplicable Tourism Strategy, and the conclusion it offers to correct these shortcomings that it has seen, which deviate from the strategy. But from today's debate, at today's plenary session, every man fought for his place, every man mentioned his lady. It's only one part of tourism, religious tourism is only one part. We must spread tourism across the territory of the Republic of Croatia, we cannot just go to shore. I live on the coast, but we have to extend the tourist season. We know, we have clear goals to achieve. So our problems are that we have a very high seasonality, we have a low degree of capacity utilisation. So, I've already said that demand is just about shore, that's not good. The potentials of Croatian tourism and this strategy that started in 2012 and when we look from today's point of view are much greater than it actually earns, rather than earning little. So 17% of GDP. In the future, we should continue to think about how to manage tourism sustainablely, how to raise competitiveness, how to start new investment cycles for new employment, how to learn to push these investment projects to develop tourism infrastructure. But to keep it all sustainable, to preserve our culture, our cultural heritage, our cultural heritage, and to stop the eviction of especially young people, of all people who could contribute to the development of these tourist destinations from these particularly attractive areas. And that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u9019	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Drazen Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u9020	Comrade Penić, you said a whole series of norms that should still be installed in our system to make tourism work as well as to ensure that relations are better arranged in tourism. One of the laws you said, the Tourism Land Act. We passed that law. We also brought in sublegal acts and in some ways agreed with houses dealing with tourism and with campers and hotelers. However, there is no practical application today, and that is what is bad. Because thousands and thousands, tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of square meters of land used by hotelers and campers were not bought in conversion because they did not enter the capital of these societies. And today as a society, we have nothing. And on the other hand, people who use agricultural land, who are renting agricultural land, we sue them if they haven't paid rent on that land, and here we actually have some income that's so easy to get through just like that. I know that while we were doing those laws and the hotelers were involved in that story they simply said on a statement which is why they don't pay for it. They told us that, nobody asked us to. One responsible society, one responsible state must fully edit that segment. Because if it's state property or ownership of local self-government units, then they must have income. And right in this House was asked to cut it backwards I don't know 20, 30, 40 years which would actually be the murder of tourism. There is a balance to be found in order for society to benefit from some kind of excessive burden for people who deal with tourism. And that's why we went with some kind of variation as I recall in those regulations that it would be made up of these fees from a fixed and variable part. The fixed part is acceptable, and the variable would actually depend on how much they invest in tourism. I think it is extremely important that it be installed in a regulatory framework related to the functioning of tourism because it is actually very important to establish justice as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u9021	The reply to the replica, distinguished representative Davor Penic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u9022	Dear counterpart Bošnjakovic, I was not in the previous session of the Parliament, the review found if you read the report, and I read it carefully, in that report it says it does not apply. And if it's passed, it doesn't apply. But if it is also passed and not applied means it is missing, it means something needs to be changed. So, amendments and additions to that law must better regulate relations so that concessions can be charged on space. And now various hotel houses in small towns, in large cities it's arranged, but let's say in small places they use a place where they don't pay a concession and it's not owned by them. That's it. I think we should discuss more here in this strategy how to marketingly brand the good image of Croatia. We are a safe destination, we can develop any kind of tourism, from what counterpart Bulj mentioned religious tourism, coastal, we have forests, rivers, mountains, we have a very rich country of resources. So we have to work on not only developing one hand or another but the entire state. So, the whole body. That's the problem with that strategy. But at the beginning of the report, I said we have stable growth and we have constant growth, so steady growth and stable. And I defined that in 2007, we had 8.3 and 2015. 17% of GDP comes from tourism. So we have a steady growth that we have to maintain. But we must protect our cultural heritage and our environment and develop tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u9023	Replica, the esteemed representative Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u9024	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In your presentation, you said yourself that the inter-resorship council had not met for nearly two years and did not coordinate activities in the implementation of the strategy. For public reasons, it should also be said that only the Ministry of Tourism in the light of the audit findings has highlighted the problem that other state bodies of the Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Civil Engineering have not done their part of the job. That's why we don't have all the indicators we'd like. And it is pointed out in this report, you also said that Croatia should declare the entire tourist destination and develop tourism in all areas. And we find it particularly interesting that we come from the continental part of the investment on the continental part according to the audit finding that the investments are lagging behind. That the plan by 2015 was a billion and 400 million euros and only 867 million kunas were realised or 38% less. And what particularly hurts about the experiences and information we have from the field that through the competition conducted by the Ministry of Tourism and the Croatian Tourist Board for projects for the development of continental tourism the least funds came to Slavonia and Baranja, specifically in Brod-Posavina County. While still Minister Bajs began more intensive co-financing of projects in continental tourism, 30-odd projects received co-financing annually, some 3 to 4 million kunas a year. And in last year, only 300 thousand kuna. Which means that we have the capacity, that we have the projects, but obviously our people now don't know how to prepare projects that don't stand anymore, but I think the revision should have been addressed by how decisions were made, on which criteria, and why the highest part of the co-financing funds for continental tourism went to Istria. It's an honor to Istria, but also to some other parts, not to Slavonia and Baranja. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u9025	Replica response, distinguished representative Davor Penic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u9026	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm sorry they haven't met for two years, but I'm sorry they're not listening to us today. They said it would be either the Deputy Minister or the Minister in the presentation of the report, but there's no one there. That's the problem. So I'm not looking into the past, I'm looking into the future. It would be better if they listened to us today because here they could hear a few smart suggestions and conclusions and not meeting the Interminist Council you have to ask them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u9027	The following came to the debate, the distinguished representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u9028	Thank you very much, Vice President. If I had to answer the question whether there are any institutions that make you feel proud as a Croat without thinking, I would answer that it is the State Audit Office. But after that, I'd stop and I don't know if I'd remember any other institutions. But I am sure that I would never remember in that category, which is the Croatian Tourist Board and the Tax Administration closely related to tourist communities. Here we heard two words most often, strategy and system. The strategy in economic terms marks the way in which the objectives are achieved. And if someone has read the strategy for which the State Audit Office has been working on the findings then it is visible that it is not a strategy because it does not contain a way of achieving the objectives at all. And the system says it's an economic category, an orderly whole. In view of the findings found by the State Audit, there is no way to talk about a regulated whole, so we cannot talk about either the strategy or the system. That's why when I read the strategy and your findings, Mr. Chief State Auditors, I can't help but wonder a few questions. So where that responsibility went, it's gone. Where did professionalism go, where did the waist go, wherever that so declared patriotism went? So what I'm reading here is clearly directed against Croatia and all Croatian interests and we swear on patriotism, professionalism, professionalism, knowledge, strategies. Well, I'm ashamed to read what it says here, but the find is, you've made a great find as always recently as just defeating you to find out what's going on. Let's imagine that we don't even know how many outstanding claims we have for residence fees and membership fees, so please let's talk about any whole organization at the lowest level let alone the state without knowing how much she didn't charge for anything. Well, we all have to blush. Is someone being replaced because of this, is someone called to account, has someone ended up under sanctions? No one's done anything. In one year, we have 67 million kunas of unpaid residence fees and membership fees. Imagine the wages in the tourist communities, I happened to see the gross salary of the parliamentary representatives on average 24,000 kuna, you know what it says in the find of gross wages in tourist communities is double the amount of 46 thousand kuna for this relationship to everything. Is anyone asking how it's possible for someone to have that kind of pay, did someone call him in which hotel he sleeps, where he travels, what makes him travel, the results, the reports he filed? And every time abroad every performance not only of the tourist community but of any Croatian institution and any Croatian citizen is also a promotion of Croatia. But when the Ministry of Culture, which is organised at the third largest book fair in Leipzig, should perform on its own, the Ministry of Culture prohibits the performance of an independent state, sovereign states rather than making it appear together with several countries from the former one, and then the tambours from Slavonia are engaged, so the Dalmatian bench, and since each signature must be signed under the Dalmatian Balkan Bit. This is how Croatia is promoted. What's been established here? Of the 9 measures 4 have not been implemented at all, 45% of the measures have not been implemented at all, 4.3 have not been implemented and 2 in part. In order for the objectives to be established at all, an analysis is necessary. There is not a single analysis in the tourism system that includes a complete analysis, including these findings of the State Audit. No decision taken by the Ministry of Tourism is based on the State Audit, no decision has taken into account such a finding, so how effective it can be, how such a decision can be good, not at all. And what does this all point to? That the Law on Tourist Land is a stumbling block, that the Law on the Sea is a good stumbling block, that to draw the line of maritime goods should wait sometimes for 10 years, that it is an extremely negative contribution to this state of the DORH in a tourist activity that does not protect Croatia's interests so that it should protect in the civil department and here I use the opportunity to call all of us once again to finally divide the DORH into criminal and civility because it is unable to book the Republic of Croatia in the possession of a 15-year-old camp worth hundreds of millions of euros and camps lying on the beach, it is unknown whose use it is, it is not known, is not paid to anyone and former owners come by night to turn off electricity and drive tourists. One of these camps is Camping Down one of the most valuable on the Macarian coast, which for 15 years is not known at all. And tourists come and they have to leave and the state hasn't been able to register for 20 years and that's state. That is why DORH bears great responsibility for such conduct. I can't help but wonder that we still have land along the coast of agricultural land. On the beach, agricultural land and we will develop as a tourist country. Well, that would be great if there were seedlings on those farm plots that would be produced with these seedlings sold in hotels. Unfortunately, they don't make it by the sea, nor does they plant anything, but it's forbidden to build because agricultural land is great. That the membership law should be amended is visible from this report. The tourism community law should also be amended because such laws lead to injustice. Imagine not charging 20% of residence fees or membership fees and because these 20% are not paid everyone else has to pay more, to charge then they would be lower fees and lower membership fees. And imagine, then, the tax administration, instead of delivering data every month, which is legally required by Article 14 of the Law, it delivers once a year, but does not deliver a report on the debts but only on the charges, and as far as it's due you can't get it, it's a forbidden topic. In one year, the tourist communities showed claims and this determines the state audit of 17.8 million kuna and the liabilities of 65 million kuna. How is it possible that they have obligations 65 and 17 claims so that most tourist communities do not show any claim for membership fees and residence fees? And then the tourist communities, even when they get paid to those cities and municipalities, don't pass on paid fees for residence fees and membership fees. Was anyone responsible for that? And imagine that to your founder in the area where she was founded. This isn't what I'm saying, I'm just saying this is what I read in the state audit report that it's not being carried out. If the tax administration did not provide monthly data and Article 14 should. To charge 3% of the charged but not to report what should be reported. If the claims were not charged at the end of 2011 for membership fees were 48.9 million kunas, 50 million kunas only were not, there were no fees for membership fees and no fees were charged 27 million kuna. As much as the irresponsibility in this non-payment is made, not another debate of 10 minutes should be discussed all day long but debated about all those in the chain of this irresponsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u9029	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u9030	Here's a respected colleague, Maric, for the third time today, tourism is a really important area. I learned only a few years ago that tourism is an experience sale. You can make an experience on the sand or make an expensive hotel but now I'm not going into any lectures as well as that we economists know that tourism is not a defined branch, it doesn't exist as a branch of economy, economy, it's totality. So he is, I won't say everything, but almost everything that is offered in one country is therefore difficult to measure. However, I would focus on this, on what you have said and what you have stated in these 10 minutes, and obviously you haven't arrived at all, this is very worrying and says that this is an unsettled system and that so far in Croatia is the easiest thing to be a tourism minister and everyone has fought for it because it's the best it's been, is it? The only thing that could've been time or any football championship could've been a little bit of a turnoff. I personally think that the Ministry of Tourism shouldn't even exist, that it needs to be attached to the Ministry of Economy to be one department because that's when we say the economy, it's totality and not to be singled out, and then we have things like this that you've minimally shown. So I'd just like you to tell me what you're thinking, let's say the ACI doesn't have that, we don't see that here, some rich guy comes in with a mega yacht, he's got nowhere to tie and the ACI is doing a positive job. Why aren't two mega yacht marinas made, two, three. And secondly, what do you think of politics, the exchange rate policy of the CNB which, somehow since Easter, has been strengthening the kuna during the tourist season and thus directly destroys the competitiveness of Croatian tourism, the economy? And during that time, Hungary, Turkey, the Czech Republic, look at what their central banks and exchange rate policies are doing, how they finely stimulate and help their tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u9031	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u9032	Thank you very much. I agree that the Ministry of Tourism in a serious organisation and government should not. As for the last question I'm thinking about teaching politics, I'm not going to say what I'm thinking, I'm going to set an example. The Croatian producer has an annual export of 100m euros and exported it 3.4 months ago and, meanwhile, the kuna strengthened 2%, only 2%. He lost 2m euros. It will charge less than 2m euros. He lost all his profits and won't produce next year. This is what a course policy is, how it affects Croatian production. That's clear. And I'll read you why I think of the findings, as it says, in the state audit. Tourist communities do not keep records of the number of members of tourist communities at all. They shall not keep records of the application for membership fees or of the measures taken for collection. This was determined by the State Audit. The tax administration does not provide data on total borrowing but only on the charge. So how about a more devastating piece of information than that? And that it lacks every system, is not a system unless it is standardised but the tourist communities are not standardised, they act differently, they don't even charge a residence tax equally. For example, if you have an apartment at sea, you will pay your stay tax, but if your friend from Dalmatia has an apartment in Zagreb, he does not pay a tourist tax. There's so much about standardisation and charging a residence tax. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u9033	Replica, the esteemed representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u9034	You tell your colleague that Croatia has a problem with this and if the problem had been passed by the Law on Tourist Land, I would agree with you, but then you passed that law, its last amendments. When exactly what the big tourist houses took and saved, possessed without any legal procedure, later and by the basis of that law practically became owners, you raised your hand for the law even though this land did not enter their core capital and thus dejected former owners on which they were built during socialism these hotels. So you and the return of that land came and this whole law came into question when owners, former owners of that land, and that return were to be realised. The second you're saying that DORH is not separate from that the civil part should be separated from the crime. Well, that was done a long time ago. We used to have a lawyer just and just as fortunately that this civic part, that the former institution had been abolished and that an integral part of the DORH had become his civic department that was saving property that was overnight, social, state-owned because it was supposed to, because it was cursed, everything that was state and social so became overnight and the DORH was as much through the civil department as, so much saved property. But I agree with you about when you say that we often hear it now, that we need to coordinate the cadastre and the land. It is necessary to coordinate the factual state with the legal state and what you are saying you have cultures by the sea that were once agricultural and today the nature of the land stands agriculturally, only because it is in the power of the local self-government units that have so benefied some of their loved ones in order to be able to contain themselves in that area of construction and to give others building land and what should be built is still agricultural and I do not think there is a need to dramatise however that national security, issue of national interests, do not, Croatia opens up, we also have a prime minister from Canada, we have today when our head of service from France was appointed yesterday, therefore, there is no fear that it is otherwise internationalised and it is otherwise during the Patriot coalition. There's no need for drama.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u9035	Here's thank God the opposition says we're an open society from the Patriot coalition. Replica response, distinguished representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u9036	Comrade Ingrid! In just two parts, we didn't agree, so I'm going to look back on those two parts, but I'm going to admit to this one part of you in your replica that you're still an intelligent person because a cynical person can only be intelligent because it's a prerequisite for cynicism intelligence and you have it, and I like it. You only made a mistake at the beginning when they spoke. I did not vote for the Tourism Land Act even though I was in the Assembly at the time, but I did not want to vote for it. That's where you were wrong, and I don't support it like that, and I didn't vote for it, so you can check it out. Because I would never support a private person getting property without compensation for anything, let alone land worth hundreds of millions of euros or something else, so I would never agree. But I also disagree because you performed protectively for the DORH. If you were to analyze how Cimos diocese signed up for property in Istria worth 180 million kuna a few months ago, then I'm sure they wouldn't be so protective. But we had a note and the DORH was warned that it would try to register, they said it wasn't your concern, I can never register, it's been two months, they signed up, 180 kuna. And let the DORH answer what it does about the DOLE camp where the land was taken from former owners, where the small municipality pays compensation and has been blocked for 5 years for the payment of that fee, nor is the guilty thread due. What does the municipalities have to do with it, so it's not municipal, if the municipality pays compensation to former land, so let the Republic of Croatia enlist in the camp and assign the camp to the municipality. Why does the municipality pay for something that, then let the budget pay for it if the state assigned someone something free, but no one cares how the municipality suffers because of the stupidity of those who passed such a law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u9037	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u9038	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You also mentioned the Law relating to maritime well-being and seaports as a cornerstone for the implementation of the strategy in your presentation, and it is true that the existing law is a stumbling block and that certain procedures for establishing maritime goods borders should be shortened and the relevant problem of concessions on the beach-related sea-related good and nautical tourism should be addressed. However, what surprises me is the fact that we are in addition to the agenda or that in the consolidated agenda as point 20 we have just the final proposal of the Law amending the laws on maritime good and seaports that this government has sent to the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 48 And I do not see the will of the ruling coalition that what you said to the stumbling block amongst other things solves, or to face it, why so, I do not know it. Here, this was an excellent opportunity for one of those stumbling stones to move away and no longer be current. And about this theory and in some ways perhaps a mockery related to the existing strategy. This is neither the first nor the last strategy, we had that 93th, and that 98th and 2003-2010. On the basis of a specific analytical document by the Institute of Tourism, people have made a strategic document on what kind of a vision of the development of Croatian tourism by 2020, they have prescribed ways to reach the objectives that we aim at and detailed paths, or procedures, by an action plan. We can be satisfied to a greater or less extent in which it is realised but we cannot really deny the existence of any quality of such a document. Finally, Minister Kleman announced a revision of the existing Tourism Development Strategy. If you're going to revise it, revise it, but don't deny it and actually derogate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u9039	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u9040	Thank you very much. I raised Mr. Vice President because I wouldn't, dissatisfaction would be underestimation, and I never did that to anyone. Comrade Voter, I did not derivate the Strategy. That document derogates itself, it shames itself like you said we have a lot of strategies. There is no document in the Republic of Croatia in any area that bears the name of the strategy that it is indeed a strategy, no matter who brought it. There is not a single strategy that contains a way to achieve the objectives. There is no such document in the Republic of Croatia, because it is learned to write a document for the sake of the document. Let's strategy, so we'll have some of our wishes, our visions, our goals. But strategy is not the goal. The strategy is a way of achieving the objectives already set, and the objectives are based on analysis. No analysis has preceded any strategy, both from education and from the economy, both on the State Property Management Strategy and on the tourism strategy. I generally speak, so these documents themselves are derrogated. Contentfully, they are of no value from the professional aspect, with a political ideal for polymising. But I'm looking at first from a professional point of view, this second one does not benefit Croatia anything. I agree with you on the need to highlight the amendments to the law. It's a task here to point out shortcomings and encourage, but we're not the Government, but the government needs to do this and it has to do it. So the local self-government can't arrange the promenade, because there's no established maritime good. So as tourists, they have no place to go, no place to walk, they can't walk from place to place a mile, they can't walk by the sea, and there's no public lighting, because it says I'm waiting for the fortification of the sea's good. Because we don't have public lighting. [[Intruder Tepesh: Time.]] And with that, we should go into the development and achievement of the strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u9041	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Davor Penic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u9042	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Maric, you look at every report with your economic glasses. In all, the strategy defined 27 measures and the revision said which measures were implemented, which were not, how they were implemented and what should be changed. So she detected the problems. You have noticed that more work needs to be done to increase the tourist reception of the local and regional communities and the Croatian Tourist Board, as far as I could read from yours. And then you said by law they don't pay membership fees, that they're here, that they didn't pay about 20% and you said it was about 50 million kuna. Then you said that they did not pay the tourist tax to the tourist communities, that the tourist community was denied for 27 million kuna, and you mentioned that the revenues that could be realised to change the Law on Tourist Land and the Law on Maritime Goodness to define concessions for revenue to be even higher. So you have concluded from the review report that there are also some actions that should be repressively carried out. That's my conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u9043	Replica response, distinguished representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u9044	Thank you very much. Thank you, fellow Penic, for the replica. I found out and concluded that it was necessary to amend the law in order to avoid such harmful situations. That's the final part of my debate. It is urgent to change the law to remove all of this and to determine exactly what kind of person is required to do what time and what penalty it is if it does not. As far as incompetence is concerned. 48.9 million kunas are not charged for membership fees and 27 million kunas for residence tax. And as for your observations, I'm looking through all the economic glasses. Imagine, I come to you and I say Mr. Penic I have a fever, can you look at me for a second? And you take the phone, and first you look at my lungs, they're clean. I say, well, don't say that, you're just looking through your medical glasses. I can't look differently but with economic eyes, because of the economy of the Croats everyone lives and lives, not from politics. But when there is more economy in politics only then will Croatia be better, and the economy has been removed from politics, it has moved away with a surgical cut. The economist must not be in politics. This is Croatia's problem and must not be seen economically at all. That's why we're here because we're prisoners of politics, not that of national interest. When economic phenomena are seen economically, in health care, in social welfare, I see this Mrs. Taritash in architecture or from a professional aspect. Well, I've never talked about architecture, nor will I talk about architecture. I don't understand that. But in the economy everyone understands, and the least they can be understood are those who are trained for it and who are professors of it. Great! That's why we're here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u9045	Here's a thank you. The bearer won't explain it further? Okay. That concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. The sitting continues tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. on the agenda Final draft implementing law (EC) No. 1060/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 September 2009 on credit rating agencies, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 28. Session interrupted at 17.44 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-04-0.u9046	The following is the Report on the effectiveness of the implementation of the measures set out in the Strategy for the Development of Tourism of the Republic of Croatia by 2020. The applicant is the State Audit Office. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: The report on the effectiveness of the implementation of the measures set out in the Strategy for the Development of Tourism of the Republic of Croatia by 2020 is hereby adopted. Please vote, who's to conclude? I'm asking for a result. Thank you. 127 votes in favour, none against or abstention. I find that a unanimous conclusion has been reached in accordance with the proposal of the Assembly parent body. Good morning, colleagues and colleagues! Here I see the arms already raised, first is the distinguished representative Dario Hrebac. Here you go.
