ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-21-0.u327	Dear President of the Parliament on behalf of...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-21-0.u328	My colleagues and colleagues, please allow your colleague to speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-21-0.u329	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists, I am looking for a 10 minute break due to the failure of 7 consecutive salaries at the company TIBO from Matulja, owned by the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-21-0.u330	Okay. Here, we have a break then until 11.15. Thank you. Is there anyone else? I hope not. No, thank you. Thank you. ANNOUNCEMENT IN 11.05 HOURS [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 11:15 A.M.]] Please take your seats. And here I give my word to the distinguished representative Tomislav Končevski who will now speak on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-21-0.u332	Dear President, colleagues and fellow MPs, TIBO Matulj is owned by the country managed by CERRP and whose workers did not receive 7 paid consecutively. Soon they expect the 8th they will not receive, which is the state as we have already stated in our previous statements on this subject, the government is obliged to pay off. The way this company has been put in a position to fight for the naked survival of stories is that many companies in the Republic of Croatia have passed and Labourists repeat once again that such behaviour must be put to rest. The company that manufactures components of ships whose production program has no alternative in the Republic of Croatia, which supplyes all Croatian shipyards with this product, must not be left to the mercy of bureaucracy and interesting lobbyes that are not interested in workers and continue production but only land in a good location and opportunity to earn. We must not allow to lose another Croatian product and import ship equipment from countries that do not even have a shipbuilding tradition. The shipbuilding despite the difficulties was always Croatian pride and we should keep it in the Republic of Croatia. TIBO workers are not losing hope that their situation will be resolved, but time is no more. The charges are on the way, the travel expenses are on the job, the work costs and the pay isn't on the way. Imagine coming to work, working for eight months and not getting paid for it. The proposal for a solution is that, as so far, it was about privatising the company from the former shipbuilding industry 3. May, Uljannik included in the story of the privatization of TIBO. This is a logical sequence of events that would, to the satisfaction of all involved, remind me that by including the Oilers, successfully solve both the engine and the crane problem from Rijeka. The group's oil company has been working successfully so far and is still working with Tibo Matulji. Through a loan on a total of 8.5 million kunas given to TIBO by Uljannik, out of which 3.5 million pawn rights on land and 5 million on wages, Uljannik has proved to be satisfied with the product and is interested in continuing production. We can conclude that a solution exists, but as always, the problem is the political will to implement it. I therefore appeal to the Government and to the responsible people in the CERP to do everything in their power to address the issue of the survival of the production of TIBO. I remind you that Labourists have not been able to file criminal charges against Prime Minister Milanovic and responsible people for failing to pay salaries in state-owned companies because it is a crime. If the Tibo problem of Labour will not be lifted, neither will Prime Minister Oreskovic and his first deputy, Tomislav Karamark, who is responsible for managing state property. I hope the management of state property doesn't mean starving workers and handing over the land and the production plant to foreigners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-21-0.u333	Thank you very much, colleague Koncevski. I also congratulate him on his election as party president. Right away, we will also vote on a proposal to show confidence to Mr. Toma Bear for the duties of the defence minister. Prime Minister Tihomir Oreskovic submitted a proposal to show confidence to Tomi Medved to perform his duties as defence minister. In accordance with Article 119 of the Treaty on the The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament were held at the meeting of the Committee on War Veterans. You've received a report from the board on the benches. Does the chairman of the War Veterans Committee want to explain the report? Yeah. Dear Miodrag Demo, chairman of the War Veterans Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-21-0.u6830	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Ministers, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. At the 4th session of the Committee on War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament, he discussed the proposal to show his trust to Tommy Medved to perform his duties as Croatian Defence Minister. The committee accepted Prime Minister Tihomir Oreshkovic's proposal unanimously and gave support to the new Croatian Defence Minister, Mr. Toma Medved. And here's another card. Minister, good luck on the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-21-0.u6831	Thank you very much. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication The Rules of Procedure on this proposal shall not be held at the plenary session. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines that to show confidence, half the majority of all MPs are required, i.e. 76 MPs. I am voting on the proposal to show confidence to Tommy Bear for the duties of the defence minister. Please vote. The vote is over. What's the score? 88 votes for, 15 abstentions, 30 against. I find that this shows the confidence of Mr. Tommy Bear to perform his duties as defence minister. Now I'm asking the Secretary of Defense to take an oath. The oath is given in a way that I pronounce the text of the oath, and Minister Bear stands up and pronounces the word "I swear". The text of the oath reads: "I swear that I will exercise consciously and honorably the duties of a member of the Government, respect the Constitution, the laws and the legal order, and advocate any progress made by the Republic of Croatia."
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-21-0.u6832	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-21-0.u6833	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I congratulate you on your trust. I wish you to carry out your duties successfully as Minister of Defence in the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the benefit of all defenders and all of Croatia, all Croatian citizens. [[Applause.]]
