ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u262	Mr. President, on behalf of the SDP Club, please take a 10-minute break to express our dissatisfaction with the way we work. For the first time, we did not get an announcement yesterday about what will be discussed today, at which time there will be a vote, and we cannot prepare quality for today's debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u263	Of course you'll get it. What you said isn't true. You know very well that during the time you were also vice president down the road there was no announcement, points etc. And they will vote, of course, when we discuss this point like every Friday. But go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u264	Mr. President, on behalf of the HNS Club, please take a 10-minute break on how the Parliament works.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u265	Okay, sure. Anyone else? No, I don't. Yeah, the HDZ club. Anyone else? The Honorable Representative of the Spika. The Honorable representative of Petrina on the same subject or someone else? Stipe Petrina.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u266	Dear President, I demand on behalf of the HSU Club and the independent list of 10 minutes to explain and ask this honorable House to protect its dignity from the unjust attack of Mr. Djura Sesse of the President of the Association of Croatian Judges.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u267	Okay. There he is, I think that's all. So I'll see you at 9.50. Thank you. It's 9:00. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] The break time is up and here I see a change, instead of the distinguished representative Dragica Zgrebec on behalf of the SDP club will speak for the distinguished representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u269	Dear President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues of the SDP club asked for this pause to get an opportunity to warn the public of chaos, chaos that is happening in the work of the Croatian Parliament, chaos that has moved from the work of the Croatian government, here and here in the representative and legislative body. And this chaos in government and parliament's work is actually a disgrace to the country. Let us be ashamed in front of our own public, shame ourselves in the face of the world. The other day we have an important foreign-political event. The prime minister is at Mrs Merkel's meeting with one of the most important foreign-political events, and his two vice presidents that he doesn't even know how to hold separate press conferences with different messages. And these press conferences, they're actually completely media coverage of the prime minister. They demean the prime minister, they thus insult him but also easily for the prime minister. That's how they embarrass the country. Foreign delegations are coming, two Deputy Prime Ministers are receiving separate delegations. It's like we have two governments. People are confused. Citizens wonder what it is, what is the relationship to the elected prime minister, what is the relationship between the coalition partners? The coalition partners are calling for new elections because they too realize that the matter is wrong and speak openly. Yesterday and yesterday, Mr. Kosor, yesterday and Mr. Coric did so. My colleague Kovačić says that MOST is in all of this one dam, the dam grabs the chairs, and I trust him. I trust him because there's nothing going on in the government except grabs after chairs. There are no other topics. More of us legal proposals so far have been sent into parliamentary procedure than the Government, more of us as the opposition are concerned about the fate of the country than about the government. This chaos in the work of the government has also moved to the Parliament. There's no notice of how we work, no notice of when and what we vote on. Here we learn from the journalists that your plan is now to vote at the beginning of the session on the inclusion of new points in the agenda that we would then discuss, and then again at 1200 vote on what is discussed. If we're going to vote now on the inclusion of new points in the agenda, then we're asking to vote on everything we've discussed so far. ... Who are we, throwing who are we to look for in this House? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] We are if you haven't noticed the elected MPs in this House. ... Is it? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] You're surprised, Shuker! Always before the beginning of the session was known, counterpart Leko as Parliament president informed us about what we were going to do that day, and on Wednesday and the plan preferably what we were going to do that week, which one day. And the President of the Parliament would have known that if he had been a little more in Parliament sessions. He mostly came in the morning, asked for a break and then left. Chaos, yesterday's session of the Media Committee. It was called yesterday afternoon at 16.35 p.m. for 8.30 the second day, so for 8.30 yesterday. We'll all be there at 8:30. Two minutes before the scheduled session begins, a notice arrives that the session is being postponed. Then 15 minutes before 11.00 comes notice that she will be held at 11.00. Well, listen, so, that's not what kids in kindergarten would do. It's one general chaos. I mean, we can adapt to a situation that's messed up, and we're adapting, but we're warning the public, people are confused. So what kind of work is that? The press is surprised. So, we're protesting this chaos, we're looking for President of the Parliament to introduce order. We expect the MOST, which is a more reasonable part of this coalition to insist on introducing order and force so-called. A patriotic coalition to stop that grab from the chair and finally start working. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u270	Thank you very much. Comrade Stazic, I must tell you that unfortunately you have spoken more lies in your speech than that you learn from the press that there will be points. You didn't give me a word, because you immediately called in the various statements you've made. So I couldn't even say something that was common and you know very well just pretend that you don't know because you were Vice President of the Parliament that the new points usually fit on Fridays, extra points on the agenda. And you know very well that it's done, just now pretend and try to deceive the public that it's not like that. But the public remembers that it's always been like that, every time, almost every Friday we put new points on the agenda. Therefore, absolutely nothing has happened that has not happened before, but there will be order even much more I assure you of that. And now I'd like to ask on behalf of the HNS Club the distinguished representative Dark Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u271	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. There is something that is in the pyramid of government of the state, at the top of the pyramid, that is legislative, executive and judicial power. It has to work, it has to work legislatively, it has to function executively, and it has to function judicially. If that doesn't work at the top of the pyramid at the state level then the lower one will collapse, the lower the regional governance of the state and the same local self-government. Legislative power, I'd just like to remind you of what happened yesterday. Yesterday we had two agenda points announced, about 4 p.m. suddenly there was a mix-up and we realized about 4 p.m. that we were proposing to include in the agenda new points. We were sitting there, waiting to see if they'd discuss another point that was tied to the CNB. We were somewhere until 5:00 p.m. and at 5:00 p.m. we didn't know what was going to happen today. The form must always be satisfied. When the form is satisfied, then we talk about the essence behind it. Take a look at the executive authority as well. The executive power, therefore our government, is not yet appointed all the deputies, not all the assistants are yet appointed. Some ministers say they will not be appointed deputies and assistants, so the government really does happen before the government says no, and the government happens to have been appointed. So they were appointed a week ago and they haven't come to work yet because they're not all signed appointments. So there will be some appointments. That's no way to work. We what is the measure of things, what we all stand for, which is structural reform to them, we can't even get to them until we have a complex form. We haven't gotten to the point yet. Let's get some judgmental power. We have a Constitutional Court and ten judges we don't have. How do we expect this country to work if we MPs in this distinguished House on Thursday, Friday afternoon, we don't know what's going to happen at half past ten in the morning, if we put the agenda points in the hallways that we find out about. That way you can't work, or you can work in a mess, in a mess, and then the result of that work can be a mess and it can be a mess. I remind you that the 10th month was an election campaign, 11th, 12th, 1st, 2nd. - Five months, five months, it'll be three months. Easter is very fast this year and the 3rd month will pass – 6 months and we in this distinguished House are discussing what? This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating And on that we absolutely grind policies and everything but that's not the point. So let's first satisfy the form, let's agree that the form is satisfied because then we can get to the scale. For the end, it's a very unusual situation. I've been begging for three days for the Secretary of the Croatian Parliament to see me. This is the third day, I prayed on Wednesday, so he didn't have time, so I prayed on Thursday, and he just left, and I prayed today, so I was told to be patient. It's an unusual way of acting. If that's the case with all the MPs, it's okay, but if that's the case with certain MPs, then it's not right. The picture of us and what we are doing here is an image that is being crossed out and painted all over Croatia. Let's satisfy the form, and then we'll discuss the essence. Because if we don't satisfy the form of the essence, it won't be.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u272	Thank you very much. Since you mentioned order in the House, then I'd like to stress that order has been introduced. Because all the points have been going on in the order that you had written in advance for a week or two. You've got the agenda for today, it's not true you didn't get it and please don't deceive the public that you didn't get it. All the clubs got the agenda for today. And for the rest of course I'm not going in at all, the political evaluations are nothing, but as far as the Parliament's work is concerned, I want to make it very clear that it's going exactly on the agenda as planned, including that you got, I repeat again all the clubs on the agenda for today. But the next word came out on behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u273	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. It's obvious that anxiety is present because it came by party television. That's the reason for this call. However, I may be able to call anyone from the SDP, but I can't tell me I wasn't here. And not once I was at the opportunity when Honorable colleague Stazic chaired, and when the agenda was complemented here in the assembly, there were no 76 people. But we said if no club had anything to do with the point being considered included. So much for the truth. And it happened not once. However, you waited yesterday to see if there would be 76 hands here and you did what you did. It's not true, for the sake of the Croatian public, everyone on the bench came to yesterday's proposal to supplement the agenda, everyone. You fellow Maras said you voted for something and now you're changing your mind. So let's let it go. So colleagues and colleagues, the result of this Kukuriku coalition in the last two months, is here, this list of changed, unsuitable ones. Among other things, the director of Croatian Radio Television. If anything in this House was to be brought by consensus, the Law on Croatian Television was to be passed, it was not adopted. And if anything, we as responsible politicians need to make sure that this institution is operated and managed by professionals and not by party people. You can't say that Vanja Sutlic and Mirko Galic are HDZ personnel. You can say anything but you can't say it. And these were HRT's leaders at the time the HDZ was in power. So it's just not right to hide things, not once we've been here in a situation where the agenda has come from the government, that it's classified and that it's being debated. No. We were in a situation once that we didn't know what to discuss. But I'm saying the best thing is when you forget the things you've been doing and how you've been running the session and now you're complaining to others. But I repeat, anxiety is present. Because every government agrees as well as they think it is. We believe that HRT simply does not correspond to what Croatian citizens are paying for. Since more practically no sports event Croatian citizens can see on HRT than the composition, in fact the structure of the emissions, than what should be produced and presented to Croatian citizens for a billion and 300 million kunas how much they pay each year for the subscription. That's true. It's a fact and that's what you want to prevent in every way from talking in this House of Commons. We will offer arguments that we are dissatisfied with. You'll offer arguments to say that we're wrong and that you think it should stay that way. And it's a democratic debate. But in this way trying to hide things, it's just funny. It's very interesting how complex this team is. So any attempt to change what is the legitimate right of MOST and the Patriot coalition and the Milan Bandic party is being welcomed on the knife. What should we now take power with both that authority and the state to manage the Kukuriku coalition personnel and we will take responsibility. Of course they do. My colleagues and colleagues, this is a list of changed people, only in the first two months. Only in the first two months. ... Please warn these nervous colleagues on the other hand that I wasn't yelling while they were talking. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So these are facts. I'm glad you laughed at least you'd be a little better off. These are facts, so public television becomes public television. Public television will be a service for information and all other things to Croatian citizens. Public television will be what MOST, the Patriot coalition and the Milan Bandic party promised their voters in the campaign. So you and all your associations do whatever you want, sing the fighting songs, but that's what's gonna happen today, so you can say whatever you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u274	Thank you very much. The next on behalf of the BUZ club will be performed by distinguished counterpart Milivo Spika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u275	Thank you very much, dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Our public needs to know that here a certain part of the MPs behaves like Alice in a wonderland. This has been behavior lately all in line with what we give them hell. And they're doing it. Here the largest number of people in this assembly is on the way in, and on the other hand we have to admit whether or not we have a very experienced team, they would say the first league that this plan on creating hell is doing very well. If we set a definition of who is in power at this time in Croatia, I am not sure whether it is the parliamentary majority established with its government or whether there are still these relics of the previous government that are struggling with all forces to keep these people where they are and in fact only for one reason to obstruct the possible change of the ruling coalition at the beginning. So we have this ridiculous example where the previous government wanted to replace the director of HRT and there was a general agreement and it had to be done immediately. And yesterday it appeared as a item of the agenda of the parent board and, behold, miracles. The most eloquent from the pay phone and defenders, the headmaster of HRT, were the ones who wanted to have him replaced by yesterday. Why? Why? So to continue to preserve their influence in that media space and to keep their truth heard. And then of course, we're also faced with the fact that one part of the ruling coalition is expressing dissatisfaction with the current situation, and then it can be interpreted one way or another. Yes, we are dissatisfied with the situation at this time and the way our coalition works. But not because we're bad or some of us are bad, but simply because we all together and therefore the Patriot coalition and our colleagues from MOST want a lot more than what's going on right now. Maybe in all of this, in some ways, we're in a moment and... Maybe it's someone and abuse so it uses it in a way that inside our coalition there's some mess, chaos, break-up, anything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No, I don't. We're simply not satisfied with this situation, and we want to fix it as soon as possible. And it's just a little comparative. The previous government said by coming to power, you all remember that well, we don't need 100 days, we need, we start working right away, we know everything we're going to do. And we remember very well what happened after 2.5 years when they told us, the entire Croatian public, so we have a client start. It took them 2.5 years to determine the condition we're about to start with. And someone says whether this is a settlement of the ruling whole of this combination quickly or not. I'll say again I'm not satisfied, this was supposed to be much faster because in my opinion it could be faster but it doesn't have to mean that it has to be because we can all wonder if we're going to put together power in five days and then have chaos for four years or maybe we're going to do it for five or six months and have a good tuned orchestra that will manage to implement all of this that we've done. In the meantime, some are making a great deal of effort to entertain citizens by questioning the integrity of a number of fellow MPs, so some publicly give up some benefits that they have no right to at all, while on the other hand you have a number of parliamentary representatives who are entitled to a lot of things under the law and do not use anything. They don't matter, but it matters something like this. They deunify their colleagues through various media spaces by fabricating non-existent affairs just to draw attention to the ruling coalition, and all this again in the context of that story that one part of my colleague is still not, I will say it this way in a sufficiently good way and learn that we are part of the ruling coalition and that it is a responsibility if I am not cheating on us 80 in this Croatian Parliament for the future of Croatia in the next four years. So this will be a public call to everyone that com down, let's go do it no matter what the left hand side does, and that's obviously a job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u276	Thank you very much. And he's the last respected representative of Stipe Petrina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u277	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here is my presentation as a parliamentary representative who I have the right to point out irregularities in society, even legitimate doubts have been raised by the Association of Croatian Judges in a statement by Mr. Djura Sesi. So the judges are really disgusted by my claim that there is lawlessness and corruption in the judiciary. It is clear to all of us, with several yet offensive statements from Mr Sesa, that there is a parliamentary representative in 2016 who does not know what the constitutional and legal order of the Republic of Croatia rests on very quickly we will convince him here with arguments. This representative is very well aware of what the constitutional and legal order of the Republic of Croatia rests on, but it is not clear that Mr. President of the Association of Judges of the Republic of Croatia and the Supreme Judge, a member of the Supreme Court does not know that all citizens and all the foundations of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia are equal before the law. Therefore, it is clear that the constitutional and legal order of the Republic of Croatia constitutes a legislative, executive and judicial authority. About all three authorities of respected colleagues and colleagues, we are the only ones chosen directly. So, only we point out that it is our duty to our voters and citizens of this country to point to irregularities. If any segment of the constitutional and legal order of the Republic of Croatia moves away we will only have two-thirds to function in this case without a doubt, the judicial authority has lost control. And I'll do it again in a short time. Yes, Mr. Sesa and that the gentlemen of the court are ruled by corruption and lawlessness and you are out of control. As the best evidence to all of you two days ago, we had here, we all listened, discussed, tried to fix a report by the Commission on conflict of interest. If we are all Mr. Sesa before the law equal, before the Constitution equals, then for God's sake, why the section of the constitutional and legal order was not covered by this report of the Committee of Conflict of Interest. I don't know how many of you esteemed colleagues and colleagues know that, but here I am just going to read it to you right now. The State Judiciary Council Regulations on property cards. But you should be reminded that we have to fill our property cards and supplement them, judges don't have to. Therefore, it is clear that the government's trio in Croatia is not working and that the judges are completely out of control. Article 6 The rules on the property card of judges say, "If an insight into the property card of judges is required, the decision shall be made by the Council, so to speak. " Be careful what we choose. So it's the Fate Council above us and it's constitutional absurd. Let's move on, position two of the same law, article. "The Council will allow for insight if the request contains the purpose and legal basis for the use of personal data of the Personal Data Protection Act, and taking into account the principle of proportionality." And item 3. "The Council will not allow any insight into the data that is limited by the Personal Data Protection Act, nor any insight into the information that may endanger the privacy, or the security of judges." For God's sake, gentlemen judges, can't insight into our property cards endanger our security and our integrity? I won't be much longer. I will continue on this subject at every session of the Parliament. But Mr. President, the Association of Judges as part of the trio of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been manifested. I ask you, too, to protect the dignity of this honorable House and to protect the dignity of any member. Does this message by the Association of Judges mean that none of us can say a single critical word at the expense of the actions of the judicial authority? I therefore propose that a parliamentary investigation committee be established to examine the scales of corruption within the judicial authority of the Republic of Croatia. Believe me, respected colleagues and colleagues and all the citizens of this country you listen to will remain appalled by the scales of corruption, lawlessness and crime that today is ruling in the judicial authority of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u278	Thank you very much. Of course, you can always propose to your colleague Petrina in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to form an investigative committee, but in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We will now go to the following points, which is - THE PROPOSAL OF THE DECISION ON THE SOLVING OF THE CROATIAN GOVERNMENTAL RADIOTELEVATION; the Proposer of the Decision is the Committee on Information, Information and Media under Article 20(7). The law on Croatian broadcasting. The proposal for an act was delivered to you on the benches. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal for a decision? Yeah. Mr. Andrija Mikulić, president of the Committee on Information, Information and Media. I might suggest that for the sake of efficiency, we unite those two points if you all agree? If there's no one special against it? ... Yeah, he changed because we just accepted it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You're not following the session of your colleague. So it looks like we can do it? Yes, can I help you? Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4029	Infringement of Rules of Procedure Article 228 We have now completed the agenda, however, according to Article 228, so the order of discussion of the agenda points is determined as established. And now we've determined the supplement. And what you're doing now is changing the agenda points, or changing the order of the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4030	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, and if you think that I have hurt the Rules of Procedure, of course you can always make a written complaint. It seems to me that you agree to unite those two points, so here I am going to ask the honourable representative Andrija Mikulić, president of the Committee on Information, Information and Media to report on the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4031	President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues pursuant to Article 20(7). The Croatian Radio Television Act and Article 110(2) The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament The Committee for Information, Information and Media of the Croatian Parliament shall submit a proposal to the Croatian Parliament for a resolution of the Director-General of Croatian Radio Television. That proposal was established by the Information, Information and Media Committee of the Croatian Parliament at its 4th session held on 3 March 2016. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Croatian Radio Television Act is prescribed that the body responsible for the selection will discharge the duties of the Director-General of Croatian Television if the competent authority for the election or the Croatian Supervisory Board of the HRT determines that the person does not perform his duties in accordance with this law and/or the Statute of the HRT. On the basis of the decision of the Council for Electronic Media of 17 December 2015, in accordance with Article 44(4) of point 5 of the Supervisory Committee of the HRT. The Croatian Radio Television Act refers to a request for appropriate measures to be taken in accordance with the cited law and the Statute of the HRT since it has been established that HRT does not run a business book in accordance with Article 38(7) and (8) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. HRT law. The Director-General of HRT has been established not to perform its duties under this law and the Statute of the HRT. Therefore, in accordance with Article 49(1) of the basic Regulation, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The law on HRT, the HRT was obliged within one year of the date of entry into force of that law to bring its work and business into line with the provisions of that law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The HRT Act is prescribed to initiate the procedure for the resolution of the head director of the HRT Supervisory Board of the HRT. A proposal for the discharge of the Director-General of HRT is submitted by the Information, Information and Media Committee of the Croatian Parliament. At its 8th session held on 29 February 2016, the HRT Supervisory Board decided to open the procedure for the resolution of the Croatian Director-General for which, at its 4th session, the Information, Information and Media Committee of the Croatian Parliament held on 3 March 2016 after a debate was held with the majority of votes with 7 votes in favour and 3 abstentions, set out this proposal for a decision with an explanation submitted to the Croatian Parliament. The same meeting also set out a proposal for a decision to appoint the head director of HRT. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The HRT Act is prescribed that, in the event of the termination of the term of office of the head director of HRT, the Parliament will appoint the acting director of HRT for a maximum period of 6 months until the election of the new head director of HRT. Since the procedure for the discharge of the head director of HRT has been initiated by the HRT Supervisory Board. At its 4th meeting held on 3 March 2016, the Committee on Information and Media established a proposal for the resolution of the Croatian Director-General for 7 votes in favour of and 3 abstentions on the 4th session, which was held after the discussion of the majority of votes in favour of and 3 abstentions, a proposal for a decision with an explanation to be submitted to the Croatian Parliament, which is that Mr Siniša Kovacic is appointed as the acting director of HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4032	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate united as agreed. And the first came to the SDSS club Reformists, a colleague of Pupovac, a colleague of Cacic's. I don't see any. He's coming, he's coming, he's coming, he's coming, he's coming, he's coming, he's coming, he's coming, he's coming, he's coming, he's coming, he's coming, he's Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4033	Good afternoon. Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. There is a first time, I stress my personal position and attitude of the Reformists that especially on important topics is well-wise and useful for Croatian citizens to try to speak without demagogy and without introducing opposing, often without the basis of political passions. This is one of the biggest topics that can really be talked about politically because it is an institution and head of an institution that is of the utmost importance for the formation of public opinion in this country and every other country probably, but in this particular country, because HRT, no matter what we think of it, and how critical it has approached its work, is certainly the quality of its work that falls to the top of European and world media practices and has proved itself to be so with rises and downs but through these 26 years of independent Croatian countries. How and how it's approached so far, we know history, we know what happened until the moment of law-making at the time of Racan's government. I personally took part in all quite arduous debates about how to set up the media and how to get out of such a stalking mechanism of hard political control by the ruling until then. The creator of this legal text was largely then Mr Vujic with no doubt at all, knowing both him and his way of thinking with the best intentions, most honestly, completely democratic but with a serious urge in '68, with a serious passion for civil society to take control. However, every extreme in the end is proved to be a poor and rigid control of the state over public and public television politics and the extreme that civil society is involved according to completely defined standards and that everyone decides how and how it will be managed is quite a chaos and some that, and I am sure that many of you have followed it probably and recognized that in that time there were many, many negative consequences of such a kind of leadership selection, and then, consequently, all the people who participate in that television, in the work of that television. In 2012, the government changed the system. She had a lot of reasons to do that. There was reason to do so, and on that key point, the principal made a decision to decide on it by the Parliament. It is undeniable, I would say unquestionably, indeed cannot be excluded from the importance and necessary influence of the Parliament on that point and on the action of such an institution which all Croatian citizens pay by using its services. At the time when the ruling majority at the time brought it, it also defined the necessary unquestionable consequence that the next ruling majority would also approach and act in the same way. They will decide on the director, as decided by the last one, this one will decide and the next one will decide if we do not change the legal framework. I don't think there's anything questionable about that. By changing the political position, changing the political attitudes of one such institution, I would say that at the very least it is hypocritical. Let's not do that. We tend to turn the whole story into some forms that essentially have no content. Now the Supervisory Board has unanimously decided that Radman needs to be moved. You can't imagine! So why didn't he decide four months or five months ago, right? So, quite frankly, he decided so because the new ruling majority came and let us not hide the truth because the truths are so. But that doesn't mean that the ruling majority doesn't have the right to take that shift. It's unquestionable. You don't just have to hide it behind hypocritical forms. As far as Radman's work is concerned, I personally had a whole series of objections, and I've spoken publicly over the past few years. I've never known him very well, I've known him very well from business, I've known him for decades. I appreciate a man, he can work, he can work in a private business, he's worked well. He did some of that technical management part on TV, in a conservative way, slowly but things were moving in the right direction. I wasn't satisfied with probably looking with my subjective position with a lot of things, certainly a lot of others. I don't even know who was happy, probably nobody was happy. It's usually like that, it's usually people like that. But that man did a proper job by my deep conviction is. So I never let myself call a man from the position of first Deputy Prime Minister, which is the same thing I remind you of a form our Constitution and the law predict. So we don't have a vice president, we have the possibility of a vice president and the first vice president. When we started that, I remember that mockery of that function. However, Europe recognizes that function, so again we did not know what was what. We're often prone to it. Now nobody's surprised anymore. It's clear to everyone that it's just something this system recognizes. So, I didn't allow myself to call him, I wasn't satisfied, but when we draw a line at the end of the day, the man was doing a straight, serious and responsible job and let's not plant him in any way that's not the case. It's a big pain in the ass that it's some political persecution if we're talking from his position, too. It's not any political persecution. It's just a shift. The last most of them brought their director, this one will bring his principal. I hope so, and I expect that the new one that will come will at least be so good a little above average, and certainly not worse. I hope that's the way it's gonna be, 'cause the proposal I heard was good. That's one professional, a serious man with whom I've had personal experience by accident was the man who followed, was in charge of tracking highway projects 15, 16 years ago. So, one correct professional. I expect a professional in the media doesn't necessarily have to be a good manager of the big system. But, okay, there's gonna be a chance we can see that, too. So, people, let's put the ball on the ground. Let's stop pulling out ideological knives. Let's try to find the best solutions in a way that's good for this country. We reformers can afford that attitude. We went to elections with the basic idea that the country was sick, that the country was threatened by ideological conflicts. The conflict always takes two, as well as a tango. We have continued these conflicts, and now this is once again a point where they needlessly and harmfully continue. If something happens in any way, which does not mean that there is no danger, that there is a strong politicisation of HRT in the wrong direction, then there will be arguments to talk about it and to criticise it. However, if a gradual process continues or a more rapid process of healing our television and protecting the public interest and pluralism of political and all other ideas on that television should be supported. So, as for the reformist I here on behalf of the club, I can say that we will not vote against Radman, we will be abstentioned because there is no reason to vote against. But we will vote for Mr. Kovacic as a candidate for the new director because there is no reason not to support the man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4034	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused several replicas. He's the first of his distinguished representatives, Joseph Lek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4035	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague, Chacic, is troubled by your assessment that the ruling has the right to change. That would be about trivialization of democracy. So they have the number of hands so I can change someone. That's not the point of democracy. Not even an estimate that the director of the HRT didn't split the incomes from the competent institution, why the speed in that? So we have an institution that can check all the business of a public institution. Why didn't we use that? What's the speed? The second thing I'm trying to say is the speed of change shows a lack of arguments. Where a State or public HRT has achieved all that is provided for in Article 3. The law on HRT and did not accidentally split income into two parts, and there is no abuse of these revenues then that is not a reason for speed. Because it's a much more important article 3. The Act on HRT's tasks and public tasks of HRT, as well as the article on the distribution of Croatian income. Therefore, if there are elements then they should be established at the level of law enforcement, not through the Supervisory Board, but through the institutions that have been nominated by the Parliament. State review, please make nice instructions and we'll get everything. Let's not raise democracy to the number of hands, we won't make a step forward. That's not a good message. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4036	Thank you. The honourable representative Radimir Cacic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4037	Thank you very much. So, I totally agree with Mr. Lek that this formal part of whether the supervisory, whether the division of income is a naked farce. It's not for me, of course it doesn't mean I'm right, but that's our attitude, there's no slow no about it. However, what is quite certain is that the legal right to be elected and the obligation to choose in the Croatian Parliament opens up space and the possibility that the coalition that has taken responsibility for managing and managing this country in the next term in a key segment called public television has the right to give confidence to someone who thinks it will work better. He's right, so I'd say he's even obliged to look for the best. That's what this is about. So away from it being a derrogation of democracy. No, it's basically, it's a responsibility to these people. What's going to happen, is this man really going to respond to that task and the team he's going to gather, we're just going to see us. Of course, with the basic finding that the number of hands is not democracy and that the fact that you won the elections doesn't give you the right to do whatever you want because that second you won the elections, not only is it not democracy, it's often happening to us, but it's directly against democracy. Democracy is a process, every day we have measurements, every day we have new criteria, that's why there's civil society, that's why there's media, that's why this TV is important, that's why there's a Parliament, but it's a process ahead of us. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4038	Thank you very much. The next is the replica of prominent representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4039	Well, you thanked Mr. Radman very much, but what did the agency conclude and when the Agency for Electronic Media already suggested that something was wrong and that the laws were not respected? As early as 2012 in July, the Electronic Media Agency first asked HRT to submit the full financial documentation. It means 2012. And the law came into force on 16 December 2010. And ever since the law came into force, not a single step towards respecting the law, Mr. Radman has done a single step. This is all described in the Agency's report, which repeated this in 2013 and 2014 and only in 2015, the Supervisory Board draws conclusions binding on the Director, obliges him to correct these errors so that they can act in order to know what the revenue is from the subscribers and what it is from the commercial. Nothing's been respected. And now really without any policies if someone appointed by this House does not respect the law that was passed in this house, so of course it must be sanctioned, that the Supervisory Board made a decision at the end of the period which is and what it was supposed to be long before it was already made in 2012.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4040	Thank you. The honourable representative Radimir Cacic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4041	That's exactly what I'm talking about. It was supposed to be passed six months ago, a year ago when the court saw irregularities, when the criticisms were repeated. It wasn't brought. Why wasn't she brought in? Well, if you ask me, quite frankly, because the ruling majority was different. So that's what this is about. So let's not lie to people. That doesn't mean you're wrong to sanction illegal behavior, actions. Okay, I don't want to use terms here illegally or legally but certainly audit when big that something's wrong then we have nothing to talk about. The revision is a body whose rightful word is to be respected, and therefore everyone and the ministers, so that God and the director should do to me. It's not the only thing Radman didn't show at, I'd say a level expected by a director in behavior and action. We remember the announcement of the contract, all the things the public had the right to know and eventually found out after the resistance they were making. But again at the end of the day when things come down to the essence here, these are the elements to be taken into account, long ago they should have been taken care of, O.K., now they're drawn to the surface, now it's working. But without these elements and without those elements, my belief is that the government is responsible for the activities of the institutions for which it is responsible to take care of them. This is not a state institution, this is not something that is directly within the government's authority, but it is the function of a director in the authority of the Parliament and the Parliament must think about it and bring its own justice. There is a majority in the Parliament, and the majority is responsible for their choice.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4042	Thank you. And the next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4043	Comrade Chacic, do you think it's all right here to make it this bile, the heat in the debate? However, it is best to remember certain things. So when the Kukuriku coalition came to power, then everything moved nicely and we said we came, we take responsibility and we'll name it. And there wasn't much debate. There were objections, but it's a democratic right. However, when the objections arrived, laws were passed, the Law on the handover of authorities was ignored. However, I would remind you and my colleagues of a long time ago in 2003, in June 2003, the 2nd, 3rd month, elections were held at the end of the year, this High House discusses the HRT report. In addition, the adoption of the report or not the adoption of the HRT report goes to the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament that all inspection services from the tax office continue to exercise control of HRT due to certain failures that were in the report. And it's very interesting that no one said at the time that it was the pressure on television, the destruction of media independence. And a find was made but it's very interesting that this finding and identified irregularities and financial obligations didn't come up practically me when I took over the Ministry of Finance then came to me the same day of the inspection where HRT owes 250 million kuna. But when he tried to charge that tax, then a salva of dissent from NGOs, this, that it was pressure on the media. Now look, one political option determines that the inspection has to go, the inspection takes control. The other political option just wants to do it, not that it wasn't pressure on the media and this is pressure on the media. Today is exactly the same story. I repeat, neither Galic nor Vanja Sutlic were anywhere near HDZ and were directors of HRT at a time when HDZ was in power. And Radman can't exactly be said to be close to the Alliance of Communists and the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4044	Thank you very much. Here will be answered by the esteemed representative Radimir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4045	A fellow Shuker is right, of course, that's how it happened, when he says it, it's true, but I still remember. Here's Leko remembers even further. And I remember one conversation when I, on behalf of the coalition, negotiated elections and election monitoring at HRT at the time of some other people who were certainly not even close to the SDP but were very close to HDZ and were directly members at that time of HDZ. I spoke on behalf of the coalition and I said, if you stop us so brutally, if you don't stop stealing so brutally in the media, playing, preventing me from performing, that was the deal within the opposition, I was saying on their behalf, we're not going to go to elections. I made a very firm and brave statement. And Mesic was on the other side, he was negotiating on behalf of HDZ. That's why I'm telling you. And now Mesic on the other side, of course I know again 10, 15 years before that from business, because he was the director of one project bureau that was ours. He looks at me, says Ratko, Don't make me cry. In other words, I don't care if you go to the election. We'll keep cheating on you here on TV. So let's let what's happened, let's see where we are now and try to go in some other direction. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4046	Thank you very much. And here's the last replica, the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4047	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let's go back a little bit in the present of your beautiful past that HRT brought to these branches that it brought from the left and right. So I would go back and tell my colleague Cacic, since he is an experienced politician, he ruled, i.e. was part of the governments of the so far and knows the models of change or appointment, i.e. resolutions, but I'd like to talk about another topic. Yet our fellow citizens pay this television monthly with a subscription of 80 kn. In this social situation, many cannot pay that fee, and for the sake of non-payment, let's say 3 wars of 240 kuna comes to them by 1240, half a law firm, half a public notary. And while they squeeze money, blocked accounts of our fellow citizens to pensioners, people who have no meaning at all of what to live on, let alone when they're blocked. While we have 3100 employees around here and one hundred lawyers on HTV and, of course, that contract is made, and it's being carried out pretty well, and our public television is being robbed, our fellow citizens who are now numerous under blockades, and they're being asked how much they have to be in debt to survive. This is a key issue of HRT that has hundreds of lawyers, and public records offices, law offices with some dealings that are legally allowed to rob Croatian citizens. It's a fact and it's an example. I meet with these citizens every day. And it doesn't trip a lot to the public notebook, simply. The same ones have paper, only worse by name, last name. It's not Ante Antic, it's Marko Markovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4048	Thank you. Here will be answered by Honorable Representative Radimir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4049	Thank you very much. Of course, what I can say is that I completely agree with Mr. Bull, that's not questionable at all. It is one mechanism for robbing Croatian citizens who is not only on television, it refers to both gas and electricity and water. So, we've established dangerous mechanisms for billing, and I think that this House should limit it, bring it into some reasonable frames. But it's only part of the subject. Of course, it's important that television goes in the right direction, that these 3,000 turn into as much as it takes, so two, that the whole story, etc. etc. I'm not burdening the Parliament right now. But this isn't, this shift isn't about that. Let's be exact. And where there's a foundation for fear. I'm not saying that the whole opposition is caused by this kind of fear, probably some other reasons are in it, but where there really is a basis for fear among citizens. He's hiding in what was happening this time before this shift. Let's say a story with 6,000 people on the road and Mirjana Rakic. There is room for fear of citizens and fear of politicians from another political position. That's why there are no sinless ones here. The moment this brutal, primitive attack on a first-rate professional opened up, of course the reactions are like this. They'd probably be like that without it. But there is additional support for fire and additional oil is poured on fire when going with these marches around Zagreb and attacking someone who must have made only a positive and never a negative contribution on that television.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4050	Thank you very much. Before we go to further counseling clubs so someone doesn't tell me to deny information to anyone we'll be working without a lunch break as long as it goes. The next club of MPs is the HRID and independent representative of Shandor Juhas, and the distinguished representative Drago Prgomet will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4051	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. So, I'm not close to anything the former party, the alliance of communists, I hope to be competent to discuss this subject objectively without it, which doesn't mean that I resent anyone who's ever been. So today we bear witness to what has been announced for weeks and months to resolve the head director of HRT, and I can only say one thing. Mr. Radman with politics has come, Mr. Radman will go with politics and leave. In this regard, I do not doubt the procedure initiated by the Supervisory Board, our parliamentary board, but I doubt the transparency because I believe that the board of directors should have been given the opportunity to tell about their work. Finally, I believe he had something to say and what was well done on HRT. However, a new director has been elected, or a new director has been proposed. He's on his way. I see he's confirmed his consent to the public notebook. I've seen it before, but I hope it doesn't change its mind and that it will indeed remain on what he said and will receive the support of our club as a man who will take over the leadership of HRT. What has already been discussed here, and what Mr. Cacic said was that the procedure was initiated, that Mr. Radman did not separate the accounting, so that the income of public and commercial, I believe that there is indeed a legal foothold and that the Supervisory Board has made a good decision, and ultimately the parliamentary board has made a decision on this trail. But it would be good if we stuck to those criteria all the time. So if the law is broken, please have a nice time to answer for it. But how did it happen to us, then, to be called Deputy Ministers or Assistant Ministers who left a great deal of debt in their institutions, financial dues or debts to the state on behalf of tax evasion? As I said in the introduction, when it comes to media, there is less talk about numbers, there is less talk about business and at least about journalism. Mostly it all comes down to ideological accounts that question freedom of the media, the independence of journalism, the reputation of who received the seconds and minutes on public television. People are called for nationality, and that's judged by name and last name. It's called for changing editors on public television. No one wonders how the editors were changed eight years ago, 16 years ago, etc. The language spoken here in the Croatian media is unfortunately very often about not understanding the role of the media and is potentially very dangerous. We have witnessed statements that one-party television will be dismantled, that media will be spatrated, that everything will be moved with an iron broom and the authorities have passed one perfident way of amending the Penal Code, unfortunately, only because they quote the author of individual sentences in their media. So we have finally come to the point where our courts determine, or courts have the authority to influence their decisions with the program and content of the media. Unfortunately, all of this, and we have witnessed today and here in these discussions and replicas, says that we are still suffering from one symptom of diseases from which Croatian politics cannot or will not be cured, which is that the winners always act as if Croatian politics, Croatian democracy and the whole world began. And so the state is constantly exposed to experimenting on what everyone is ultimately suffering from and public policy, and most citizens are suffering from it. I truly believe that we will soon change, and I will believe that when politicians appear who will not suffer from the disease of their own vision, their own size and their own determination. Of course, changing the director will not change the program to a significant extent by HRT. It will change when there is real political will to change things on HRT, so that it really is a public service where I repeat the independence of journalists must be first. We can, and probably each of us has faced it in a certain way, object to journalists that cheerleaders are sometimes in a mood, unoccupied, but when you listen to HDZ or SDP, journalists who are not "ours" will always be criticised. And our journalists will always be good, objective and have to give them a chance. Therefore, the change at the head of public television must have something to do with the criteria and the business programme, not with ideology and shifts in power. There's been talk here that most people who get power have the right to change the director of television. I don't agree with that, of course, because this isn't about ordinary law. If we really want to make order, let's bring the Law on Transfer of Power and define exactly the positions and places that will be the subject of change at the moment when the new power assumes position. I think it would be fair to people who are acting on certain duties, not to look for ways and reasons that some of these officials will be replaced. Of course, such a law introduces rules of the game, and when you have rules of the game you can't cheat. So it happened to us that over the past 25 years, no one has ever wanted to accept at least the ruling Law on Change of Government. I hope that this Parliament, we are working on it, will be willing to adopt that law and thus bring as many order in situations where one ruling party replaces another. The controlled public television and the controlled media are certainly not what democracy would have to fight for and, personally, as I do not like any kind of control to accept as something that we as defenders and as journalists who were on the front. Finally, if it were true, politicians must take care of that, that one who controls public television wins the elections, then always one party would be a winner and yet we have recently found that this is not the case. In fact, the new director is losing his election. I talked about journalists and about their right to freedom but I also call for responsibility because journalists have to make sure that they have to stick to ethics, give the facts fairly to take care of themselves, but above all about those whose information is intended as well as their sources. Because journalists and the media must know that they can very much determine the fate of political parties, but above all, an individual who must be protected. Therefore, the public interest is to preserve HRT as a public service rather than as a state television. I say, I believe that this government will insist on this, this power, that it will not be repeated, that public television is expected to be alone, that public television be a cheerleading team that stands by one political option, or one political party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4052	Thank you very much. Before we move on to replicas, there's only one comment I've made about the Rules of Procedure and something the distinguished representative Prgomet said. Of course, the board could or didn't have to call Mr. Radman. In order to follow Article 56, even the Committee may decide without a proposal, for example without a representative of the Government in certain cases. Therefore, it is not necessary to be present. But Mr. Radman used his position very well, he did yesterday afternoon while we were here discussing 45 minutes on the HRT he runs actually talking about himself. He therefore made good use of the fact that he is the director of television paid by all citizens to explain his views. In any case, a distinguished representative, Zeljko Glasnovic, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4053	The Honorable President, with the fall of the Berlin Wall of Germany, replaced 2800 journalists, in fact excluded her from public life. What would you imagine if Chief Stasia Marco... He took over the intelligence services of the current German state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But he comes here, he's represented as some East German James Bond, where he gives lectures in Croatia. In terms of ideology, and why then double standard, no more work tips, no more RTV Zagreb, no more SKOJ. And by that, only the appointment of Mr. Radman is highly questionable to me in that position. We need public television, not one that is based on political Yugoslavia. But this second crime by Mr. Radman, for example, doesn't fill the card, the tax card is paid by I think 15 thousand kuna. Maybe he doesn't know how much property he has from Dubrovnik to Slovenia. The second replacement of 50 editors overnight, whether it is a democratic procedure etc.? The final question is what will show one inspection official, financial. Is that in reality Eldorado for kleptomaniacs, is that, we remember ZAMP copyrights etc.... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4054	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Drago Prgomet will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4055	No, I won't answer, this was a debate, so it wasn't a replica, when Mr. Glasovic discusses, maybe I'll go with the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4056	The next replica is likely to be a respected representative of Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4057	Thank you very much, President. My dear colleague Prgomett, I wanted to say that I agree with much of what you said. However, the fact is that we are not warning in recent months that we are not satisfied with HRT's work, we have been warning for 3 years that we are not satisfied with HRT's work. Three years, good three years. At least 10 times in this House at a time when you've acted as an honorary deputy president of the HDZ. The position of the HDZ club and then and now that it is not satisfied with the general work, in general with the work. As for the procedure, we followed the law, i.e. the amendment and addition of the 2012 HRT Act in each segment. In addition, we also held regular practices of discussion on the Media Committee which had previously been on those cases that were the same or similar. One of the only cases that was such in history when the vio was selected V.D. Mr Novokmet, director of HRT where the same situation was related to the call for the previous administration and appointment of the new V.D. So we found no other analogies in the law, nor in the Rules of Procedure, nor in practice. And we've been working on it. And I'm not going to tell my dear colleague that she's ideal because we opposed that and then in the debates about the law and we don't think that some things in the law are well defined. But it was the only logical path. And I'm trying to speak very argumentably, without any sharpness very realistically, very precisely. There's a record of all this. In that sense, neither was the former administration known, nor were their reports discussed before that in the parliamentary debate, nor was there a new candidate for the V.D. but was proposed at that session when he was... There's a record of all this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4058	The Honorable Representative Drago Prgomet will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4059	I can only repeat what I've already said several times. It's a constant calling and you've done it that way or that's how it was, I think it'd be good to hang up once. So unfortunately, in the vocabulary of Croatian politics, it has risen to take every serious debate with a distant past, and we are still waging wars of our own fathers, and I would like to at least end our wars, not to leave our own children. Ideology, that ideology and ideological debate were involved when it came to the current director as well as the former director. I would like it to end and it is one of the elements of our disseminating in political respects, including participation in HDZ's work. Because I believe that ideological acuity, especially in times when Croatia lives hard, when things are solved by dialogue and serious debate does not lead anyone and nothing good, even when it comes to HRT. However, especially when it comes to HRT, when it comes to journalists who should be and are dogs guardians of democracy, especially such democracy as it is in Croatia with all its good things, but also with many flaws and shortcomings. Ideological debates, the rigour of the development of Croatian democracy will not help to the least.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4060	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4061	Dear President, dear colleague Prgomett. I don't know if it's okay that our Croatian TV is going to be in the future and it probably won't be able to bring any football games from our championship. Is it normal for our people to pay 80 kn for public television, and nothing from sports can look practically. It is not clear to me that a man in such a high position of Croatian television does not know his own property he has outside, that he should not report it. I'm in the Parliament for the first time, so I knew it, so I did it, not to talk about a job scandal or firing some editors that our Croatian court brought back. Not to say that the Programme for Croats outside Croatia that was supposed to spend around 13.2 million spent only 3 million, so much so that it does not know who the Croats are, where they live and what they need to get, without further saying that they did not respect the Supervisory Board either. I personally believe that this man did not deserve to be the director of Croatian television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4062	There will be no answer, but it will now be replicated by distinguished representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4063	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. It seems to me that there is one discrepancy of colleague Prgomet in your claim that you agree that any furniture can be replaced by a Croatian director, director of Croatian Radio Television, while at the same time favouring public television. There's nothing wrong with that. There can be no public television political hunting of any kind, and when I speak, I don't mean any name, or Kovac, or Radman. It doesn't matter. If we're going to build public television, and it is a wealth of Croatian citizens, Croatian society, not states. In this variant, I do not agree that the furniture that comes to power can provide for itself the privilege on HRT which is more than HRT is not the director, cannot be the director. And we need to understand that this is really worth only in the archives of HRT perhaps the most valuable that Croats have to do with the media at all. If we accept the view that the furniture can be replaced, then this shift has no mark of democracy, but that doesn't mean that the appointment can't get a form of democracy, which we'll just see if it will be. I would argue that appointing, selecting and appointing has all the elements of democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4064	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Drago Prgomet will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4065	I don't think we understand each other. Which means he has a right, which means he has a majority. But the fact that HRT has to be public television, I think I made it very clear a few times as I spoke on behalf of our club. But I said the same thing, if the Parliament makes a decision that, with the change of government between the other and the director of Croatian television, it should go, then it should be translated into law, not looking for reasons to take it down because a new government has come, because we want to have public television that will be state television. So, I repeat. Absolutely public television, the selection of directors especially editors outside policy decisions, because this gives maximum independence to the institution that needs to be and must be public.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4066	Thank you. We're continuing the debate with the representatives' clubs. The next is the club of representatives of the HNS, according to the distinguished representative Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4067	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we find ourselves in a situation that the ruling majority is pushing for, leaving little room not to conclude that there is an impression and some extraordinary situation. Namely, what's this about? I will remind you that we have recently included in the agenda of the Croatian Parliament, i.e. we have included points Report on the work of the Croatian Programme Council and the implementation of the programme principles and obligations of the Croatian HRT Act and the contract between the HRT and the Government. There is a report submitted by the HRT Programme Council. The second in line of these three points is the 2014 HRT Business Report, where the applicant of the HRT report is the director-in-chief and the third annual report on the work and implementation of the supervision of the legality of the work and financial operations of the HRT for 2014 where the report is also submitted by the Croatian Supervisory Board. So, with three already existing points waiting on the agenda for a few weeks now it's suddenly a difficult drama because within 24 hours one job has to be done and the appointment of the other one at the head of the HRT. I'm warning you, we're going to be in a paradoxical situation. Yes, the ruling majority today will likely decide on the resolution of the present and the appointment of V.D. But I ask you a question who will defend the report on this agenda on HRT's business in 2014? I'm sure qualified won't be able to do that V.D. The director no matter what he does. Or there might be some other variant, that these points will be pushed to the bottom of the agenda until it becomes completely pointless to talk about them. I hope not. In the past term, the Croatian Parliament discussed the situation on HRT at least seven times. The Committee on Information, Information and Media discussed more. Every time we talked about the situation on HRT, which was very hard and open debates not only from the opposition, they were hard, firm and critical attitudes that came from both the SDP and the HNS clubs, they were always given the possibility of conditionally speaking to the other party or to those who are being criticised for being seen, to be present at the debates and to participate in them. The procedure for the appointment of 2012 is respected, and it is thought to have been deliberately forgotten that the chairman of the Committee on Information, Information and Media at that time was out of opposition. He's the one who defined who he called and who he didn't call at the sessions. The minimum of decency and in this case where to understand about us from Mr. Radman's HNS can neither be defended was to call him yesterday and give him a chance to say on this subject what he has to say, more so because he had no less than 11 pages of answers to the Board's conclusions. And in a lot of too many. There's no dispute that this story about the introduction of double accounting, which is a four-year-old note, is just a formal occasion. And don't even have the illusion that this is actually being decided by the Croatian Parliament. No, not just formally. I'll remind you that two key men of the ruling operation have decided on this. The leader of the Patriot coalition said clearly on February 13th, Radman must leave. On February 13th, the president of the Most Representatives' Club said Radman must leave on his facebook profile. And that thing's settled. This is just a procedure we're conducting right now. And as far as I'm concerned, as far as I'm concerned, I repeat, Radman can't defend himself at all. But principles, principles and procedures need to be defended for the dignity of this House. The 2014 report was to be discussed first, there to say everything about the measure of things, about a whole series of reasons why Mr. Radman can't and should no longer be the principal director. It was said that Kukuriku coalition in 2012 quickly spent its shifts, a political decision from political motive. Well, wait a minute. The history didn't start on December 28, 2015. Let's remember the condition of the HRT at that time. General chaos! So disrupted by human relations that people were under suspension, under threat. Remember that journalists walked the halls with patches on their mouths in protest over censorship, because of the political pressures that were put on them, because they were not allowed to work. Don't forget the millions and millions in debts in that house. A fellow Shuker mentioned only one aspect, which is tax debt. Unsolved relations with Transmitters and connections. A whole series of court proceedings in which HRT was sued for poorly-leaded labour rights issues. Should it be mentioned that there were about 3,500 employees on HRT? Many of them did not know what they were doing. So many hundreds of people were on contracts, and many hundreds of people did not work at all in the house or were not allowed to work. In such circumstances, there is a change because the public has appealed that the situation on HRT is not good and that it needs to be resolved. Of all the people who made the run for office, as far as I'm concerned, they were three quality candidates. And all three candidates are now on HRT. But obviously the paper suffers everything. As early as 2013, it became clear that what was wonderfully written on paper in practice had a whole series of problems. Because they began to happen again, parallel to the order being introduced into business, which began to save, which began to rationally think about the resources, which they put into drive their own plants, which began to produce what had been neglected before, which is the arranged relations within the organisational scheme. In parallel, scandals, circuses, cancellations, very unloved situations that compromised Mr. Radman who certainly did not participate in most of this but was directly responsible as HRT's leader. But what are we talking about? We are talking about double accounting, which, to be clear, is not irrelevant but is a matter that has been discussed for a long time and that has begun to be dealt with in concrete terms since the end of last year. And the measure, the quality of public service, on the one hand comes down to the appeal of professionalism and on the other hand, so what are we going to forget that colleague Dujomir Marasovic said last year in this House, when we come to power, the first thing that should be is a cleanup on HRT. That's what brought a chill between people who do their job fair and square. The current, human relations on HRT already on a shift announcement, and let's not forget that there have been very sharp assessments of making fools from then on, to Satanize the opposition, and this key people has led to the whole system warning, you can't talk about journalists and the media, you're putting direct political pressure. And then what will be behind it? What can we hope for? Only to the new cleanup, the new political pressures and the attempt to design the programme in another way. Public service involves not only an information programme. That's what politicians are always the most sensitive to. And everything else that is very important is forgotten in the production of a national television network that can watch and understand 25 million people. A phenomenal medium through which Croatian culture, hence the Croatian cultural circle and our interests, if you will and regional and developmental, can be found in a concrete political and diplomatic way to a very wide circle of people. Documentary, playful production, co-production project, all of this has been neglected and there is the power of HRT that other national televisions do not have and will not develop because their interest is strictly commercial and they are dealing with only one information segment and they do not have this educational role that HRT plays as a public service or should have. It was said, it was party television. As far as we from the HNS are concerned, we want you from your heart at the Patriot coalition and the Most, with the same level of expectations, and we want you to wait for every HrT daily and also to be exposed to what the past government and coalition have been exposed to, so that you can see what party television means, and then we will draw the line and see if that is the case or not. What is absolutely clear is that public service cannot shine blackness, grayness, and apathy, nor must it put only bad examples first. Public service must be the one who opens perspectives, which falcons, who encourage those who have the capacity, desire, will and ability to work better. He must allow such people, projects, initiatives to be seen even better. That's what we haven't been satisfied with so far. Will that be achieved in the future? We'll see about that. Namely, the proposed candidate for the performer's office, that we understand each other can't do any wonders. He's here as a temporary solution because we know, it's the ruling operation already announced, it's going to go to the amendments to the law on HRT. We're very interested in seeing which way. There will certainly be interventions in the selection process of the Chief Director. But we remind that MOST in the negotiations and with the coalition Croatia is growing and with the Patriot coalition offered by principle take or leave a solution that in the future in the Croatian Parliament will be elected chief director of the two-thirds majority. It was signed by both sides. We therefore stick to the words that are signed and we will see what will be found in the procedure in the Croatian Parliament in a few weeks as a legal proposal. We'll back it up. It's precisely to make it impossible for HRT to be treated as politically lazy in the future. Will you ensure that, it's up to you as rulers. Mr. Kovac's appointment if we want to be ironic is a little paradoxical. The ruling coalition had the most objections to the information program, the journals. Mr. Kovacic is one of the editors of the afternoon and evening journals, so he's part of that team you weren't happy with. It is likely to change now, in this sense there will be some concrete shifts, no longer so critical of the government and government, because now the public service would be critical in the government. So she was chosen by the people, and there is no HRT to question now, to move, to search for hair in the egg. I hope, however, that this will not happen and that Mr Kovacic will primarily be the guardian of the integrity of professionalism, that he will protect the people who work on HRT, allow them to work and continue those restructuring processes of HRT and the fulfillment of the contracts that HRT has with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And it is up to you who are now running the government to pay close attention to what is written in that contract and how it is carried out. As far as the Croatian People's Party Club – Liberal Democrats are concerned, we will not defend Radman or vote for his shift or against him. We will be restrained, and so will Mr. Kovačić, and you take responsibility to see if in these next 5 or 6 months things will be better quality than they have been. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4068	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused a series of replicas. The first is the distinguished representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4069	Dear and esteemed colleagues, the 2014 reports on behalf of the Programme Council will be explained by the Programme Council. On behalf of the Supervisory Board, there will be someone completely different from who should explain the 2014 report because it is no longer the same Supervisory Board you know well. Just as we had practice before and often happens in the Croatian Parliament that the reports that some other people have led in some institutions to be explained today by people who have been elected to these functions in the meantime. All these problems that you pointed out to a respected colleague that were happening on HRT are equally current today, and you claimed that it was necessary when it went into changes and laws and changes of leadership on HRT. The same problems exist today. Never more complicated organisational scheme, never more editors, never more difficult and more non-transparent decision-making, and we'll see about that. Because I'm going to remind you of a colleague, in all the reports and programming boards and supervisory committees, you've always been given some fat dark letters, we don't get data from the principal and director, not give us data. Look at those reports. You'll see that, dear colleague. We will only see if the first change made by the Honorable Director-General at HRT was an intervention in the Statute to allow him not to have a limit of 5 million kuna to an independent decision, but to raise him to 10 million. We'll just see if there are any advance payments on that same public television where services are paid without a contract. And a respected colleague, of course it was a party television, just not perhaps from your party, because your party may have had other preferences. And you don't think the decision to elect the current principal was made in the Croatian Parliament. Here's a whole bunch of media reports where it's already been known for weeks in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4070	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Beus Richembergh will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4071	I'm a supporter of that when we know it was worse before, not to follow it but to look up to those who are better than us. You know, if I were to tell you what happened at the time of Hrvoje Hitrec and Antun Vrdoljak, it would hurt both my head and you, and even if I mentioned what the first decision was to those directors, we'd all be sick. It doesn't make sense. Let's be better than practice is so far. It's definitely clear that there were a lot of problems there, but it's just as clear when the left liberal governments are that on HTV mostly there's chaos. And when the right governments are then there's censorship and boot.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4072	Thank you very much. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative of Joseph Bilaver.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4073	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear fellow Members, in your debate, you were mostly concerned or tried to transfer the debate to an ideological field, and I will remind you that Croatian citizens pay the subscription and deserve the best, best quality program, and you are not in the least if I am not mistaken to say two sentences. I'll also remind you of the constant decline in the viewership of HRT as a result of the bad program. You also questioned the urgency of today's debate and decision, so I will remind you that in time the Supervisory Board warned the directorate of HRT as well as the director of the violation of the law, or warned them to start obeying the law as soon as possible and after that warning nothing happened for 60 days. Therefore, I ask you whether we are invited here to continue to close and close our eyes before breaking the law or to respect the regulations and laws that we have just passed here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4074	Thank you very much. They will respond to the replica, the esteemed representative of Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4075	Dear colleague Bilaver, it is public knowledge that Mr. Radman, the head director of HRT, has since day one, been at war with the Supervisory Board and not this one, but the former one. This was the measure that the Supervisory Board was punished and removed, not him. However, if you've been following the situation here, I was, in that sense, a matter of opinion, and then that criticism is hard to come by. However, what I would certainly advise you when we speak, and today we are talking about the principal, we must refrain from commenting on the programme. In fact, the principal's not allowed to get involved in the program, but we're not used to it, because in the past few years, the CEO was also the editor-in-chief. But it's gone! Maybe we'd like to have one. Those who love it regularly put it first. But the CEO is in charge of operating and managing the system, not the program. He's only indirectly responsible. Why? Because the election processes in the HRT system itself also lead to appointments, i.e. the selection of editors. But, you know, there's another institute there, and that's the previous opinion of the people who work there. Did he use it to the end and respect it? I don't know. I'd like that. As far as the programme is concerned, I would love to talk to you about it long and wide and believe that we will agree on everything except probably in the story of the Information Programme, because we liberals will always say that the liberal approach to this topic must be the opening of the perspective of all and strengthening civil education institutes that those who listen and watch the HRT programme tomorrow are more responsible, more busy and more engaged citizens. The left will claim something else, and you on the right something third. So our position here is quite clear and we probably won't agree, but everything else about the protection of national culture, heritage, promotion of Croatian traditions is here we have a lot in common. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4076	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4077	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's my colleague, Beus, I'd be happy to have a common position today, as we used to have on the Committee on Information when we came to the consensus and decided unanimously on the law, and there were failures and failures again. To say today that the ruling majority is pushing and creating an idea of state of emergency, that's certainly not true. If you had read the minutes from the joint session of the Supervisory Board and the Agency, you would have seen that no member of the Supervisory Board or the Agency said that Mr. Radman and HRT were right because they had not respected the law for 4 years. And now I'm going to read you only one item said by Boris Sruk's business director. That the main reason for not introducing cost accounting is a fully human factor, not a technological one. He pointed out that it would be over this year, not in 2017, as the technological plan predicted. As stated in the letter of the HRT, he apologized for the accidental failure. Four years of unintentional failures. Well, I mean, people, so we really need to be aware that this is an eclectic violation of the law for four years. Disrespecting neither the Supervisory Board nor the council that controls what's going on. And how the council will have insight into it when it is not divided which is public and which is commercial and from which means the execution is monitored and the cost is generated. What about public programs and what about commercial? They couldn't see it and it clearly says here. I don't know why you're so reluctant to say the law isn't respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4078	The Honorable Representative Beus Richembergh will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4079	My colleague Djakic, unlike you who have read one monitoring board record, you know I have read all the records from 2012 to today. And just in addition to your thesis that there has been a constant drama between the Supervisory Board and the Director-General, we come to a point that proves that this is none, that there is no reason for an extraordinary situation. Why? Because it's a permanent condition. Therefore, remember today that the chief director needs to be replaced urgently is a little hypocritical. You know, that coincides with February 13th, that's what it's all about. Mr. Director should have been replaced a long time ago. I invited him collegiately without having anything against him personally as early as 4 July 2013 to move himself out of this place because the simple thing is not going. But neither did I, and for God's sake, Mr. Djakic will not be asked. He wonders who the heads of the parade are, you know.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4080	The next replica will be the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4081	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You were talking about the quality of the program. Of course, for every single person who pays, our fellow citizen's subscriber is not from the same aspect of the same quality program. I'm telling you, most people are unhappy with the quality of the program. By imposing, by perception and by increasing the i.e. giving priority to certain political options. It's the fact that it's been working over the past period. It's inconceivable, I don't think it's acceptable for you, that during Mao Tse Tung, it didn't happen that on HTV 4 while the session lasted to interrupt the program, transfer the program, and that the boss of that position had a press conference and that this press conference was being broadcast on HTV. After all, this is the esteemed House. I hope that future director, who was to be in power, it must not be allowed regardless of where I am here right now, it is for me to violate all democratic standards to let someone out of this House to spit on another political option and to fully pass it on without any denial. And spit and mud. Of course, you mentioned a cleanup. And the fact that after all the political elections, boredom and left and right were doing cleanups. And you, as an HNS, took part in it the same way. Maybe not in HTV, but in other distributions, it means political options with its coalition partners. Also, MOST is therefore, and there is a situation in this political now, which has emerged from these elections precisely because of these situations and the left, pardon and right on this side or vice versa. So, for a quality program, it takes a wide range of world-wide spectrum. Someone prefers patriotic songs we don't have on HTV today, someone likes some other traditional or some. So we have completely different views, world surveillance and that's OK. And HTV needs to satisfy all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4082	Thank you. Here will be answered by the distinguished representative Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4083	So when we talk about the quality of the program we have to go from that saying 100 people, 100 miracles. So, let's say our colleague mentioned earlier that HRT does not carry first Croatian football league games. So you know what in this country there are so many people who fuck live for the first football league because they prefer some less attractive sports that will never break through on other commercial TVs and there are even sports channels where you'll see everything that has to do with football. It's the same thing about music. Someone's gonna want to listen to what's going on all day. The patriots and someone would listen to the tambourine all day long. It is not the task of the HRT to please every taste but to form the cultural identity of a nation and it is not done by pleasing every flavor but to define what are strategic important things to educate the nation, to be politically written, cultural, so in that sense open, to know to receive information about what is going on in the cultural mile, the area in which we live, the world in which we live. On the other hand, to be an educator to learn something from it, on television or radio. And secondly, the most important thing is that both sides are heard about everything. It's a public service assignment, not a taste gain. That's what commercial televisions do, commercial radio channels. Then whoever wants to listen to the spiritual song turns to Radio Maria. Who's willing to listen to super modern hits turns some other radio. So in that sense, the commercials are working, not the public service. Public service must fill the gaps that matter to us for 30 or 50 years to survive as a people, to know who we are and to know what the values are and to give those values to others with our hearts and to take from them what is better than what is in us. It's just not that simple, which you would say is Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4084	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative Zeljko Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4085	Your Honor. I think it's a fundamental right to know the truth. I don't know how we can find out the truth when we watch public television. A rhetorical question whether the Croatian tax collector has the right to know where his money is spent. We've got 3,000 men there, that's the whole brigade. Some heads don't know how much money they get or how much real estate they have. We now have an example of this audiovisual centre that has given 250,000 kunas I think to a foreign home to produce a program allegedly on Croatian war crimes. It's unimaginable in any country. And when Mr. Black mentioned the word betrayal, I don't know if there's a better word than that in this case. It's unimaginable, the brain has to stop. ... He said this, he's going to live out there for 30 years, I see, I notice, that all versions of agitpropa stayed on public television, it's coming out of the one-party system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This can be shown by a superficial analysis. Here's a little one, I'll mention some things. What's interesting about Croats not hearing on public television and why it's hiding. When did the privatisation start? Why 99% of Croats have never heard the word Holodomor, why some documentaries... For example for the camp Prečko which was here in Zagreb etc.? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And third, how many properties are there around the city of Zagreb now, this SDP SKH and HNS and I am interested in other people... to those archives so we can see what's going on here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we're talking about transparency and democratic society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4086	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Beus Richembergh will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4087	Dear colleague Glasnović, don't be angry, but you are very hard to follow. You either ask too many questions or you formulate them so that you can't be answered. But there's an institute called the parliamentary question. For all that you are interested in, what you think should be on HRT and not, you can ask the question of the Government, it will trace all this information to you and about all the properties of the HNS, what you said throughout the city of Zagreb, and here we are the richest. I think you're going to have a fine answer that comes to you. And as for the story of truth, you know, it's not the public service's job to show the truth. It's your assignment as an agitpropa. The task of the public service is to talk about facts and you must come up with the truth or what the vice president of the HDZ would say in the last term, truth is water deep.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4088	The next replica is the distinguished representative of Ruzica Vukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4089	Thank you very much, President. Since our colleague, Beus, has given us such a fine moral understanding that I do not say moralized, I actually felt the need to report and briefly say that here we ourselves, by example, actually need to influence the formation of a public change. So I'd actually ask my colleague Beus how he looks at his own comments on the facebook and in other media where he's been false on account of me and my colleagues at MOST, even calling us diletaries? Here's a quick question, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4090	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Beus Richembergh will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4091	I look at my facebook comments with great love, you know I love each and every one of them and I write them carefully because I know that at least 30 journalists and at least 30 colleagues in the Croatian Parliament are following me, so if I don't get to talk to them all or give them a statement that at least they see what I mean. As far as we liberals are concerned, you know how to call us morals, it's not very good for you because liberals are a little bit more free in defining morals. They are more interested in facts, are interested in freedom, and even at the cost of moral harm. Our freedom is of supreme value, and we draw everything from it and when we talk about culture and when we talk about economics and when we talk about human rights, when we talk about everything, anything, and also about relations with other parties. Freedom is something they wouldn't sell you for all the treasures of this world, and when it hits someone, and God damn it. We're here in public space. It's important we don't go under the belt. Anything above that is allowed, at least as far as the liberal is concerned.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4092	Thank you very much. The next one is the distinguished representative Petar Skoric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4093	Thank you very much. Here's the Honorable President, the Honorable Representatives. A colleague here talked about regional interests, essentially talking about everything, not what the Supervisory Board, the agency found, so bodies that have long warned about the failures of the existing director and of this HRT administration. It was also said about the formation of social values. Of course that's the problem. Today we witness a subjective biased cheerleading programme not only in the informative shows you're saying, but also in all the fun and all the other shows that are being politicized, which are being abused for political bickering. Well, here's to the TV calendar itself as a show we've been witnessing that it's tried and intervened in it, so we all know why. The fundamental problem of course is the person who has been chosen for and who has led the HRT so far, so the problem is its natural and worldview. Because can you imagine the director of television, the former TV DDR, becoming the director of the ARD or the CDF today? Of course, the answer is not only unimaginable in one Germany, but in any other democratically civilized country, that a high-ranking totalitarian system official can lead any public media. Unfortunately, it only happens in Croatia, I hope not for long. Why? So only because, unfortunately, only in Croatia has it made it impossible to face the past that all other postages of the communist country have passed. So, if that weren't the case, Mr. Radman could never have become the director of a television station in our country. Therefore, the arguments you state here that you are practically trying to defend an existing director and not standing alone have admitted that in 2013 you were looking for his shift, so today I find it unclear why you are so involved in the defense of some so-called. values you didn't defend yourself. As for the election, you could have introduced yourself four years ago that the director was elected by a two-thirds majority, not given the Pharaoh's rights to exercise such a cut as he had spent.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4094	Thank you. Here will be answered by the distinguished representative Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4095	Dear fellow, I am your older man, and then I tell myself that I have a selective memory. But from younger colleagues like you, I don't expect them to have selective listening. So if anyone was defending anyone here I'm not God of Radman, anything else you can tell me just not that. That's the first thing. Second of all, why didn't I talk about this proposal from the Supervisory Board? Well, I said it. As far as I'm concerned, it's less important. It's important, it's an alibi now. But it's like when Al Capone got killed for tax evasion, and everything else didn't prove to him. I wish we had talked about the metrics, that we had waited for that report, so we could ask him about heroic health, all those things that were controversial and that man defends himself but that most of them decide. It's a democratic procedure, not like this behind the flyer. We're actually gossiping, we're talking about a man he doesn't have, who we didn't let come here to defend at all. You know, it's one of the worst things possible when you tell a man behind your back. But lucky for me, I guess somebody's passing this, so they'll hear it, so it's not behind the back, maybe they'll look right at the screen.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4096	Thank you very much. And distinguished representative Josip Boric has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4097	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Richembergh, I welcome your attitude to be restrained, i.e. You don't care what happens to Mr. Radman. That's the right attitude, and the HNS is allowed to do that. Our attitude is a little different and we care about what's going to happen at that public service. But long ago we warned you here that as a government, to worry about what it would look like when you went into opposition by applying the laws that you have passed as power. This is one of those laws, and I am surprised today by your anger and debate, where you accuse us of respecting the law that you have passed with our opposition then and with our amendments that you did not want to accept. As that shift started in 2012, here's the whole diagram. The sixth month of the first debate, meaning 2012 in the sixth month of the first debate, in the seventh month of 6.7., the Law on Croatian Television is adopted. The HDZ proposes 13 amendments, none adopted. HNS 2, both adopted. Then 9.7. Joseph Popovac and appointed Mr. Novokmet for V.D. Director for six months. In 20 days since his appointment, he replaced 40 leading people and editors of Croatian Radio Television. 26.10 voted new director, Mr. Radman, 92 votes in favour, 21 against, mostly representatives of the Croatian Democratic Union. And now we're talking about what we're doing. We respect the law you've passed. We warned you that consensus is something important. You said then I remember we can do what we want, that was your explanation. And now we're digging up what's going on, because I don't know what you're trying to manage with the authority of the opposition. Well, that's not working. And as for morality, I also welcome your candidacy as a man who represents the German national minority in Zagreb County and the entire three votes you have won for it. Here, I congratulate you on that and that's something to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4098	Thank you. The honourable representative Goran Beus Richembergh will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4099	My dear colleague, I am so glad you remembered that I am a representative of the German national minority in Zagreb County. Thank you so much for the ad for our minority. You know, I hope you don't thank those who led us to so few of us in Zagreb County and that there are fewer minorities than there have been. But let's go back to that. So you're the same among those who have selective listening. I don't want you to have sex with me, but actually look through me, so maybe you're thinking of addressing someone else there with your questions or comments. So give it to the man, boyly say what I really said. If I were in this Parliament, could we do what we want? Well, that's not true. Well, don't say that. So, it's never going to cross my mouth because I've never been that kind of blatant. You know when I'm the only one who's proud? When others are rude. But never in that manner. Just don't ever walk away from it. We've got a bad standard. Now we're just gonna go down to his level. No, but you will now have the opportunity to install all those amendments you submitted in 2012 into the HRT Act. Maybe we'll have two maybe three of us, too, so we'll see how you'll treat it, but be sure if you're promoting standard and procedure in a democratic sense, you'll have all of our hands, it's no problem. Just make it better. It's enough for people to have worse than that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4100	Thank you. Here's what we've finished discussing this club. We would now move to a debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club and the word will be taken by the distinguished representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4101	I thank the President of the Parliament. This morning at 9.30 p.m. when we started the session, Governor Vujčić entered the assembly and was an hour to 10:30. He didn't come alone, he must have been called by the President of the Parliament. Now, either the President of the Parliament had no idea what we were going to do today, so he invited Vujčić in case this whole agenda-complementary maneuver failed, or the President of the Parliament thought that Governor Vujcic needed to discuss the shift of Radman. But anyway, it shows this kind of mocking attitude towards the governor of the National Bank, this kind of exaggeration of the governor of the central bank in which the state has it? That's the mess I was talking about this morning. But let's go to another chaos, to this political execution. When it comes to Mr. Radman, the SDP has had and has objections to his work, and I am personally responsible for this speaker from this same place in the previous meeting speaking very critically about Mr. Radman and among other things I told him that he was responsible for the entire operation of HRT and also for the program because it affects the selection of the editor-in-chief, that he must provide the Parliament with information on the receipts on HRT which he refused and I was very critical and I told him that if you do not respect the decisions of this Assembly you will not be held in this place. The objection could be found even more. So, the SDP club and I are not talking about Radman here right now, the quality of his work, the way he handles it, but the process of his shift. That's what we're interested in. Violence and political motives and goals and shifts. That's the theme of this speech. It is unquestionable that after the last amendments to the law, what my counterpart Mesic rightly warns parliament's majority has the right to elect a chief director. This should, however, be in the legal process. You've had a chance. Your work reports are here. We should've discussed the reports, you could've said we weren't happy with those reports and started a shift to recall and select a new one. It would be legal proceedings, not political violence. We hope that the legal procedure will be and that what counterpart Richembergh has already said about what MOST required of so-called. The patriotic coalition and the coalition Croatia is growing, which is that the leaders of the public media as well as the national media regulatory body are elected by the two-thirds majority. Here's the document. That's all you have to do. I'll take your word for it. But how does this shift come about? It started with the Supervisory Board's initiative. Supervisory board one, director the other. The Supervisory Board shall not maintain separate accounting for commercial and public content. So it's unclear that you pay what content is paid out of public elections from the tax paid most by the pensioners. The director argues that such accounting has been conducted before me since 2011 and I've been working under the law. The Supervisory Board argues that the HRT Working Group and the Electronic Media Council are not formed which should work to address the deficiencies. And the director says a task force has been appointed and lists the names in the task force. So now the chairman of the Supervisory Board and the head director are arguing. Reports are coming in and presses are being held. They're like Petrov and Karamarko. But we didn't burn at that level of communication at which Petrov and Karamarko communicate. We're still here, Parliament, and we have to hold on to our dignity. The Media Committee has been held through which this initiative came to the Assembly here without the presence of the Director. The principal wasn't invited to be seen. The chairman of the Board of Supervisors has been invited, not invited by the Director to defend himself. Now these are some new democratic standards that came with this new coalition, so patriotism. It's a picture of patriotism. To hear only one side, and the other one not. That's the political execution I'm talking about, these are these new democratic standards. I ask the MOSTs who said at first we will not make any decisions based on any political criteria but only on established truth and arguments. And this is about nothing but the desire of the HDZ to master HRT politically right away. It's not today, it's not yesterday's, it's still rooting from the last assembly. There I think in this place where Boric was sitting was Dujo Marasovic. And he said here, as soon as we win power, our first thing will be to sweep HRT, first thing. He sat in Mesic's seat, no matter where. And no one's gonna sit down, you don't like to sit in that place, I get it. We're going to move HRT, we've received this news with surprise, no one from HDZ has said no, no, no, that Dujo Marasovic is saying stupid things. So it's announced, it's prepared. The second step was after the elections, the Media Committee led in the previous assembly of the parliamentary minority. You took that board. Carefully, this is the same democratic standard that the Committee on Media and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security are led by a parliamentary minority. It's a democratic standard, it's achieved, it's achieved. You've canceled that. You grabbed that board, so we know why. So you can make it easier for a political execution like this. Because if the opposition had led the board, she would have invited Radman to manifest herself, some standards would have been respected. But these are new achievements, too, and it's patriotic to grab the Media Committee. The third step that was, it was that march on the Council for Electronic Media led by Tepes, Bujanca and home-ready warriors of 6 thousand of them. To scare the Council of Electronic Media who oversees all media and to tell them to shut up because we will come to you again. And if we come to you again, you're hurt. There's 6000 of us, and we're yelling for home ready. You know what that means. And now the fourth act is here in the Parliament. First the media, first the board you've mastered and now this execution. So these are the characteristics of all dictatorships. Winning, the first thing any dictatorship does goes to win the radio. And you haven't even formed a government yet. You lack ministers, but you do not have a minister of defense yet. It's been more than a month since the secretary of defense, it's been over a month. I don't know how many deputies you're missing, how many assistants. You haven't established yourself yet. But before, you haven't even had a drink yet, you haven't gotten out of the shell, but now HRT, the media. And not only the HRT, but the culture minister, immediate and independent media, non-commercial media. So there's a thing that's clear. All you're interested in is mastering the repressive apparatus, so the police, the SOA, the shift of Lozancic and the attack on the media. Typical characteristics, it's a school example of all dictatorships, a school example. That's what you'll find in every political textbook. Now, what does the waist say about this? Again, respected MOSTs, you say you care about the opinion of the profession, that that's what you're interested in. What does the profession say, what do the press say, what does the roof news association say? The Croatian news society said on Thursday that today's decision by the Information, Information and Media Committee of the Croatian Parliament to propose to parliament MPs the resolution of HRT CEO Goran Radman and, for the V.D., the editor at HTV Siniš Kovacic, once again shows that the coalition in power has decided to master the public media service in the manner of the non-democratic regimes. At the work of Goran Radman as head director of HRT, the Croatian Journalist Society had a series of remarks to which it was critically publicised. But changing before the parliamentary debate on the HRT's work report following threats to the replacements issued by politicians of the coalition in power, at political meetings, we find inadmissible in democratic society. It stands in a statement from the roof organization. The HND announces it will report to international media organisations. Another disgrace for the Croatia you belong to. Most of the people think of this as a profession, show you how much you care about the profession, the opinion of the profession you swear to. Other theme, v.d. Director Sinisha Kovačić. Now, the Media Committee on Wednesday at 16.35 p.m., was invited to a session with the theme of Radman's shift and the proposed V.D. I called the Honorable Chairman of the Committee Andrija Mikulić an hour later and asked him who we are proposing as a committee for V.D., he tells me I don't know. And I ask him, good President, and when will you know? In the morning. And the call for a session comes, or 2 minutes before the session is held, but a new announcement should be held, the session will be postponed. So President Mikulić doesn't know either in the morning, they didn't tell him, so he has to postpone the session. And this, I also called on the board to protect President Mikulic's dignity because I think it's really unacceptable to tell him, "you want to call a session to propose V.D., he asks who I'm going to propose and they tell him what you want to know who you're going to suggest," that's what we're going to tell you who you're going to propose in the morning. And then in the morning he asks well you didn't tell me who to suggest. Why don't you postpone the session when we get back to you, then you'll suggest. Such demeaning, such demeaning of a parliamentary representative, I'm sorry, it's inadmissible. And I asked the board to protect our colleague. And here I've been asking for a plenary session to protect him, to tell the public who's making fun of him like that. Because if Mikulić is afraid of quiet, I'm not afraid of them. Tell them who orders you to do it, I'll tell them what's going on. Now, Mikulić, that's the chaos I was talking about this morning. This call for a session, cancelling a session, re-invoking a session, not knowing the president, doesn't know what the president is going to suggest at all, like what the President of the Parliament is calling the governor to discuss the shift of Radman. One chaos, one kindergarten. The MOSTs promised you were serious. I call upon you, keep your promise, and do not take part in this. So save your dignity, save until you can save it, for a little while longer with these you will be ruined to the end. Now, on the very cover of the wave of chaos comes proposal V.D. Sinisha Kovačić. That... Who's throwing it in there? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] And you didn't raise you when you were little and good. [[Intruder: I.]] Now it's too late to raise you. Now, here's the deal. [[/Intruder President: Please. Stop throwing it out of the bench. Please!]] On the very cover of the wave of chaos comes Sinisa Kovacic, that wave will cast him to the shore. We don't know much about Mr. Kovac's person. A scrawny biography and a familiar face from the screen, that's all. Information that he is the founder of Croatian journalists and publicists and president of the association, an association he founded along with another bard of journalism, a convicted cocaine dealer, a model in the Ustasha uniform and an honorary guest at the inauguration of President Kolinda Grabar Kitarović. Enough for us to be against.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4102	Thank you very much. We have the first breach of the Rules of Procedure, the honourable representative of Andrija Mikulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4103	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, so Col. Stazic injured Rules of Procedure Article 238. I don't know if my colleague Stazic hears or doesn't want to hear it, but we talked about it yesterday on the board about this dramatic performance you're doing here. I have to remind you, you said we're scared or I'm afraid of someone. I'm only afraid of the dear god. So, so much for that. As for the conversation, you'd do well to look at the minutes when you're already calling for minutes, two, three, I see you're making various statements when your text came in, when your text messages came in and your secretaries called you. The fact that someone doesn't respond when they call him, that's the problem with those who don't respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4104	Thank you. I'm estimating...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4105	Let me explain a little bit. So, as far as I'm concerned, it's a completely false story about this, I said it would be. Wait a minute, it will be. Well, Mr. President, can you protect me from this unsustainable advocacy?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4106	Yeah, but we have to be in time. So, I estimate...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4107	Well, I guess the Croatian public won't trust a man who spent seven kunas on Brijuni, and he claims he didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4108	I estimate that no more important Rules of Procedure has been injured, but I see that fellow Stazic has also raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so now he will probably say something that will also not be in line. But go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4109	No, no, it won't. I refer to Article 33. A Rules of Procedure that speaks of President-in-Office's duties. The President of the Parliament is in charge of the session, and the President of the Parliament is obliged not to allow such abuse of the Rules of Procedure, he is obliged to interrupt the speaker when he abuses the obvious Rules of Procedure, when he highlights the breach of the Rules of Procedure to replicate to me because he dares not replicate, because he would receive a reply to the replica, and then, unfortunately, under the bat of the Rules of Procedure, he replicates. And you're in violation of article 33 which obliges you to conduct a session in a business way and you allow it, because you know that the poor thing can't do anything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4110	I told my colleague that it had nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and when you will win the elections and become the President of the Parliament, which of course will never happen, then you will be able to lead this session, but you will not teach me how to lead the session. Thank you very much. We will now continue with the large number of replicas that caused this exposure. The first word will be given to the honourable representative Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4111	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, fellow Stazic, if there wasn't a memory, if there wasn't a memory, then your exposure would make sense. This is how it's missed and meaningless. Why am I telling you this? Well, because Mr. Radman came a political way. So he was the result of your distraction and your cleaning. Before Mr. Radman and that's what's most important about everything there was a different law that was more democratic than what you brought. He made it possible for the then law for society to choose the director, so different groups of people, artists, scientists, NGOs by consensus which was then confirmed here in the Croatian Parliament we chose ultimately... The SDP came, the partners of HNS and others came, you changed the law and decided that the director of HRT was chosen exclusively by political means by most MPs in the Croatian Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then we told you it's not good, things will change, you'll be in opposition, and then you'll be unhappy. So you laughed because you had most hands back then. And now there's a time when you're in opposition when someone else has a majority. And now you come here without any shame, without any shame, as if you have no responsibility, as if you have no memory. You're accusing us of being non-democracy, of doing cleanups, of meddling, etc. So it's not. We just respect the law. And Mr. Radman didn't respect the law, nor did he respect this House of Highs, and I remember your presentation where you sharply criticized him, but then in accordance with the party discipline you supported him to continue to work. And in the end, one more sentence. The waist, so did Radman choose the waist? Well, he wasn't chosen by the waist, he was chosen by you, your party and your coalition partners. So please don't give us lessons after what you did a few years ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4112	Thank you. The honourable representative Nenad Stazic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4113	Your replica has been completely missed. I said about this new law in which the director is elected in the Parliament we chose him and you can relieve him. But under that law, you should have discussed the report, refused the report and initiated the shift procedure. That would be legal. Now look, will you let me answer your line? Well, then don't throw it away. Now like this, you could have done it legally. This is how you say Radman broke the law. I don't know, when you didn't let Radman manifest himself. I don't know, when the president of the Electronic Media Council wasn't invited to a meeting of the Media Committee to ask her where he broke the law to tell me. He may have broken the law, but I don't know, you didn't let that be determined. And that's why it's a political execution. If you had let that be determined and it was determined that Radman was breaking the law, I'd have voted first for his shift, first. You shouldn't remind me of that. But you banned it from being enabled, Mikulic did not allow it to be determined. And there's a mistake. You're saying that before the association got into it, they picked the principals, I don't know what it was called, the HRT Council, I think it was called. Yeah, but you know what the problem was? Well, you know that, too, they went in outside of politics, and then they started a political party in that council and said they were going to the elections. Well, we couldn't let that happen. Well, I was unhappy when that law was passed, but he was an emergency because there was chaos. A chaos similar to that which you now create. And there had to be order. And you say waist, HND is my profession, it's the press. I don't know what he is to you? You're not going to say that SDP chose journalists in HND. It's a profession, it's a journalist's profession that said what she thought about it. I'm sorry if you don't like it. But that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4114	Thank you very much. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative of Blaženko Boban, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4115	Thank you, Your Honor. Sir, I'm going to run on several occasions, and through this report of yours, you keep mentioning so-called. A patriotic coalition, so I'm telling you so-called. Representative of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Stazic, you said it was wrong that Mr. Radman's man was not here to have the opportunity to defend himself. And that man defends himself who is not in the Parliament. He doesn't need to be specifically defended while you're here. Now is he happy or not, that's his problem. But as you will defend yourself I ask you a whole series of interesting groups, read citizens, primarily I think Croatian defenders of the Republic of Croatia, on the usurpation of public space yesterday on HRT without the right to express their position on the work of Mr Radman on public media, which all citizens of the Republic of Croatia are paying. So I ask you to be really principled as you do very often not to realize once and for all that Croatian television is public television and that every citizen of the Republic of Croatia pays unlike some other commercial TV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4116	Thank you. The honourable representative Nenad Stazic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4117	It's true several times I've called you so-called. A patriotic coalition, so called because that's your name. That's one reason. And the second reason is that I don't see much patriotism in it, unless it's for you patriots not respecting the profession, not respecting the procedure and attacking institutions like the Council for Electronic Media. If that's patriotism, then maybe you deserve not to be called that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4118	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Joseph Bilaver, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4119	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Stazic, you in the SDP are the last to talk about democracy, tolerance, polite conduct and respect of the profession. The fact is that in the last three, four years while Mr. Radman was at the head of HTV, he was obviously one of the chief advisers of the editor-in-chief and director of HRT Mr. Milanovic, your party president. The focus is also on the fact that in the 45 days of the presidential campaign in the central HTV Dnevnik, the candidate and then President Josipovic received exactly 42 minutes of time and Mrs Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic, who has now received 13 minutes of time. The other candidates then must have gotten even less for the president. I remind you that the task of public service is accurate information, not cheerleading. And now you can bend as much as you want, but these are facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4120	Thank you. The honourable representative Nenad Stazic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4121	This replica of yours has absolutely nothing to do with what I was saying about the pay phone, so, Reverend President of the Youth of the HDZ, give these teeth to someone else, don't come at me.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4122	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4123	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Trainer, you've been talking chaos. You've been seeing a lot of things around here lately. You see the chaos, you don't hear well. A colleague of yours, when she saw the pyramid, was pictured of the illustrious, the Masons. You saw on the portal that day that you saw a greeting for home ready on the Croatian Crossroad portal and where did it end? Finally, a Croatian public service show or HRT called Open had to apologize that you saw something that doesn't exist at all. So what you're seeing today about chaos just doesn't stand. Rather, it will be the fact that you have now learned in the opposition what you did not know in power, and it now makes you very entrenched and in fact the people in the elections have somehow turned you into the breath of the past and you into an offended loser of power's privilege. And that's why you're yelling and it's allowed. Because when you tell us that HND is a profession and that they have condemned what is happening so where was this HND in Gojan, Srzic, Kristo, Pracčina? They kept quiet. Everything was allowed. Why is it allowed on the left I don't know. Anything that appears on the other side is not allowed immediately. But to make it easier for you, the Croatian people generally support the decision to replace the Croatian leading man. Because if that HRT had been objective, he would have passed on your statement that I feared in this House when you justified the crimes committed on a naked island on behalf of a totalitarian system. They didn't find it appropriate to publish it, they're not allowed to. And no one in the public has condemned it and I've been saying it the 10th time in this House. It is your shame, and it is no wonder that because of the ventures you have done on Brijuni Island, the Croatian people label you as the prince of Brijuni. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4124	The honourable representative Nenad Stazic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4125	Yeah, like this, it's quite unimaginative, it's been ten years you've been repeating one of those mantras, which is more proof of the IQ than anything else. You say I apologized, I did, I apologized for making a mistake. And every time I make a mistake... I linked the Crossroad to home-ready greetings because it was such a website. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I realized it wasn't their message there, I apologized, because every time I made a mistake, I apologized. Why? Because I'm a man who's wrong and I think he's human when he's wrong and sorry. Why am I doing this? Why do I apologize when I'm wrong? Because for me, morale is not a relative category like your boss. For me, he had to... categorical imperative. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In order to be human, to have the right to be called human, you must act morally. Otherwise you can call yourself life a creature, an insect, but certainly not a man. One for whom morals are not imperative but relatively category is a living being but not yet human. That's why I apologized.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4126	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Silvan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4127	Dear colleague Stazic, I would only ask you to examine this theory of chaos with perhaps a system of orderly disorder that wants to be implemented. And I do believe, as you do, that it makes no sense to violate democratic standards because in Croatian society there is a distinct dissatisfaction with HRT not because we don't need such a single service, we need it very, very much, but this is a struggle for the centre of power. This is a struggle to control the power center with non-democratic standards. So as far as I'm concerned, if we were to talk about work, I would vote first to make a turn on HRT and because of what you said and you mentioned the category on which the centre of power rests and these are neat payers of Croatian pensioners. We in this House have put forward a bill that those who have below certain incomes per person, whether they are pensioners or unemployed, pay half of the TV fees. The government could not accept this bill on the grounds that it had a contract with HRT as a public service, so on 16.10 on the pressures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 16.10.2015, the Croatian Supervisory Committee on the basis of the previous consent of the Council for Electronic Media has left the possibility for pensioners to be free of payment of the RTV tax. Census is 1500 kuna and 218 thousand 216 pensioners have these conditions. As of 15 February 2016, 17 thousand 171 pensioners were entered into the system and only 12 thousand 840 pensioners were entitled to do so. I think this is still helping the poor to their shame and not quite enough for the Croatian reality.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4128	Thank you. The honourable representative Nenad Stazic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4129	Everything's relative to you. And what you're saying. It's a relative morale, like I said before. They are relative and of some value because you see the editor of the diary that Bilaver spoke of as an example of unprofessionalism. The editor of that journal was Siniša Kovacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4130	The next replica will be the esteemed representative of Robert Podlonjak. Here you go. And I suggest that, in addition to respecting each other, we refer to each other as sir, ma'am, colleagues and so on, and not last name, it's the same issue of education. Here's your colleague, Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4131	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Stazic, you have in some way called MOST related to the two-thirds majority and our promise is that the director should be chosen in the future. And, of course, we believe that the consensus in the Croatian Parliament would be the best solution for the selection of directors, but you are also aware that this requires a change of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, not the Law on HRT, but the Constitution, and that it was only one part of the package of constitutional changes that we advocated. So we still want such a solution, but in this regard we are also dependent on the MPs of the Patriot coalition and on the representatives of your coalition. And if you agree to this constitutional change, we will have it in this Croatian Assembly. It's a bridge, and that's why he's been seeking consensus all along the negotiations. Therefore, we remain and remain for that solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4132	Thank you. The honourable representative Nenad Stazic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4133	Dear Vice President, I didn't call the Most, I called the Most, not called. He called to stick to what you promised. You don't need to change the Constitution, you don't need to. When a candidate for director is proposed on the basis of a public tender, you can tell your coalition partners to the Patriot coalition. If there's no two-thirds majority, that candidate won't go away because we won't vote for him. And if you don't vote for him, he won't get the necessary majority in the Parliament. You can do it politically, it's only your political will, your political morality. The question of whether you will stick to what you have demanded from both sides. I'll remind you of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4134	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Dari Hrebak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4135	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Stazic, I will make an exception and I will commend you. I just told Mr. Salapic, Mr. Stazic is on his way, and now he's gonna put his ideological glasses on, pull out the light-saw knives, and we're out of the debate of HRT in a distant, distant history. That's not what happened. This debate remained within the standard democratic framework of the debate and we are discussing exactly the scale of the matter although I disagreed with most of your presentation. But you have the right to say it, and you said it exactly in one way, in my opinion, in an appropriate way. But why did I replicate? I replicated precisely because I didn't like the other part of your exposure. I don't think it's a good idea for this debate to go into one political context, to discuss more about who replaced and appointed Mr. Radman four years ago, who today will be the deputy, whether Mr. Radman will be removed. I think it's a good thing we go back to the metrics and you're talking about it yourself. So I am indisputable as a liberal interest solely in facts. It is indisputable that two very important components of this system are the Agency for Electronic Media and therefore the Croatian Supervisory Board has established certain gaps, illogicalities, perhaps possible violations of the law or something else entirely. It's undeniable and for me as a liberal is a fact and we can't get away from it. What I think is dangerous and not good at your presentation is that we set up one political scale and say whether a certain failure is important, less important whether a particular act is important or less important and whether certain offences are relevant or less important. I don't think the political scale at this point is so important for today's debate. The fact is that errors have been made, the fact is that certain and violated are certain, perhaps certain laws. And that's enough reason for me as a liberal regardless of whose division he's a man, whether Mr. Radman is left-wing or right-minded. The fact is that certain norms have been broken.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4136	Thank you. The Honorable Representative will respond, not above Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4137	You see, that fact is not consistent. And why isn't she in sync? Because counterpart Mikulic did not allow the presidents of the Council for Electronic Media, he did not invite her to tell us the truth. He didn't invite Radman to manifest himself. If those facts were established, that's what I said about the pay phone, that it was found that Radman broke the law, you wouldn't have to call me. I'd vote for his shift first. I don't know if there were any violations, let alone violations of the law. That's yet to be determined. But look, colleagues won't determine it, and probably because they're afraid of that truth. But I warn them they don't have to fear any truth. We could've discussed his report, we could've said that they didn't like the introduction, that they didn't like the introduction, and that's why the introduction rejected the report. And that would be a legitimate entrance to his shift. You resent me talking about the political context. Well, I must, when it comes to political execution. Well, I have to, so this is a political matter. There is no respect for the profession, no laws, no procedures, nothing. This is violence, violence, I want television right now, before. I don't even have the Secretary of Defense yet, but I will, I will, it's mine, it's my right, and I don't care what way, I don't care. If you hadn't collected most of them, maybe those 6 grand wouldn't have sent television to replace Radman there. I'm against it, and I expect you to support me as a liberal.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4138	Thank you very much. Now his replica will be spoken by distinguished representative Davor Bernardic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4139	Thank you very much. Mr. Track, I'll look back on your part of the procedure. What is evident, we have been able to see in the last four years that Mr. Director of HRT with whom you have been very often disagreed, as well as colleagues from our coalition ran up from Prisavia to the Parliament whenever the gentlemen of HDZ would lift their hat whenever. The man was simply twenty, thirty times. I'm sure the situation on HRT wasn't great even when the story of HRT was taken over because that's where the hole was left, a crater about half a billion kuna of debt. This same public Croatian know-how, it was left to the former ministry and the previous administration. But what's crucial is that at least a minimum procedure is expected when it comes to such an important topic. And the minimum procedure means that at that session where the decision is to be taken, at least the head director of HRT should be invited and not invited. No one from the Electronic Media Council has been invited. Neither of the representatives of the Ministry of Culture were invited. Therefore, no one has been invited. I'm against shooting without a trial, after a brief procedure as it is now trying to implement one decision here. The Croatian public, too, unfortunately, sees today what the parliamentary majority is dealing with. No one has the right to challenge the parliamentary majority. But what's crucial today is you're unfortunately dealing with media control, police control, Secret Service control. Where are the reforms gone, where is the better life of the Croatian citizens you swore to? And what is crucial democracy is procedure but also good intentions. There was no good intentions here and there was no procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4140	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Nenad Stazic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4141	You made an interesting observation, very interesting.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4142	It's just, I'm sorry before I say I have to tell my colleagues the procedure hasn't been broken, the procedure, I'm going to repeat once again not to ask for the presence of even a representative of the government, let alone anyone. Therefore, the procedure was not broken just to be clear. Just like he's not at the Parliament to assess whether someone broke the law or not. That's why there are courts. I mean, we need to know who's doing what in this country. Here you go, fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4143	I thank you, Mr. President, for trying to answer this line for me, but I think you missed your goal. So, colleague Bernardic, you pointed out a very interesting situation with regard to Mr Radman. When they were opposition and called Radman every minute to come here, he came every time, they were opposition but he was coming. Now that they're in power, they don't call him. Not if we should call him. Perhaps an unrespectable president to comply with the procedure but to respect moral standards if morals are not for all of you as well as for your president only a relative category, so that you would give a man a chance to explain what he was doing, how he worked and why he worked. Why don't they call him? Is that what I'm wondering? They were so eager to see him and hear him in opposition and now they don't want to hear a word from him. Why? Well, probably because they're afraid of the truth that would come out. They're afraid of the truth. Now, these are these new democratic standards, it's this new patriotism. Fear of the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4144	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Stazic, you talked about what the profession says and you read what the journalistic society says. I'd advise you if you'd read better what the electronic media profession says, from the electronic media council. They clearly wrote, and their deputy made it clear that the agency has its own economic experts, and there is also a legal department in the supervisory board that has unequivocally concluded that Article 38 is not respected for 4 years behind us. I would ask you to be dignified and that it would be extremely necessary to understand what is written, in this text that came to our benches all clearly written. Every member of the Supervisory Board, including a member of the agency, said it was not a fair law. And I don't know why you still want to talk about what's up in the electronic media, in the council, which is on the supervisory board. Why do you want to defend so barbarously? Is it really the same password that you used to use before, which is that the phenomenon should be condemned, and the other one should be saved? Well, you can't really be in front of the entire Croatian public, in front of all those experts who are both in the Council for Electronic Media and in the Supervisory Board who clearly said and unequivocally in the written text of the minutes what they think about HRT's business. And you can't even defend the fact that in 4 years 40 editors have been replaced and scattered from HRT. That's indefensible. I'd like to have a consensus today about these illegal acts.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4146	Thank you. The honourable representative Nenad Stazic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4147	You're saying it's quite clear what the Council for Electronic Media said, it's not clear to me because it wasn't possible for me to ask the President of the Electronic Media Council what you meant by that. And why wasn't it possible for me to ask her? Well, because you were afraid to call her, for nothing else. I didn't hear that she held a press conference, though I doubt she'd dare to say anything after that march at all. That's why that march was made so he wouldn't dare tell any truth about anything. Imagine the situation in court, that the judge only hears the charge and tells the suspect you're guilty and I condemn you and you see that it says you're guilty. Well, the D.A. said you were guilty. And that's enough for me to say that you're guilty. That's your reasoning. But that reasoning of yours is nakarad. Maybe it's typical HDZ, you're only interested in one side and you don't let the other party tell you the truth. And then to me and to you, at the end and to you, so I know what it says, and it says in the indictments, so what? So what would it look like if the court said the prosecutor wrote that he was guilty and I'm sending you to prison. Well, that's what you'd like. Well, that's democracy in the HDZ way. Look, but it's violence, it's political violence. It's something intolerant in modern democratic societies. Don't be ashamed to stand up for it. So what were we looking for? To listen to a man and nothing else. To hear a man call him and ask him what you were doing, man? To ask him and to explain it to me and to you who could have come to that committee. You couldn't have known when to come. You couldn't have known when to come because the board was changed, but good. But if you'd come and invited him, you'd have had a chance to ask him.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4148	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4149	Dear Mr. Stazic, you said in your presentation and to this I replicate that order had to be introduced regarding the 2010 law. And that's when you said that some people announced they were going to the election. It's not true that the system didn't work. That's just not true. Excuse me. Most of the work was not done because there were no seats in the programme board and the supervisory board because the competent ministry did not call the competition, and that is the real truth. If someone sets up a party in those bodies, if someone sets up a party in those bodies, it automatically eliminates him to be a member of those bodies, whether a programme council, or a supervisory board. So that's no problem, I'm talking about the 2010 law. That's one thing. Since we already have laws from 2012, when the Supervisory Board, in accordance with Articles 19 and 20, determines something and issues the Director's order, whoever he is... And Mr. Radman, there's nothing to discuss with the Supervisory Board. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what the law says. A law I'm not the happiest with. There's nothing to discuss. It can be obvious, can be executed, can not be executed. If the supervisory board does not follow up on the findings of an independent regulator. Otherwise, that finding was made long before these demonstrations you're talking about, long before. So each other doesn't have a direct relationship. Then the Supervisory Board can launch a shift that Parliament may eventually decide on. I'm only talking about the law, sticking to it like it's floating. And that's true what I told you. So nowhere in the law is it clear that reports have to be corrected. Because, you didn't deliberately introduce it into the 2012 law because if you had introduced it then you would have had to have the previous administration that was removed.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4150	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4151	The relationship between the Supervisory Board and the Director, it is foreseen by law. The Supervisory Board should monitor the legality of work. The Board of Supervisors may say the director's office and the director's office has done the wrong thing. The board of directors is being shown and we say forgive the supervisory boards you misread the law. We think it should be like this. That's it, is there a disagreement between them? Is there a Media Committee? Is there a Parliament here? Are those bodies logical, logical bodies that are coming to resolve the conflict? This measure, the amendment proposal, is a final measure and we have not yet established the truth. And Mr. Mesic, you know very well that there was an opportunity, I don't know why you didn't use it the fifth time I've told you that, the fifth time, why didn't we discuss the report? And the Supervisory Board and the business of HRT. There was a chance, there was a chance to turn them all down, there was a chance, but why didn't you do it? Why did you go this way, which is illegal, violent, you've shamed yourself needlessly, needlessly fellow Mesic, and I'm sorry you're involved in that, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4152	The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4153	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'm really impressed by your theatricality when you call the Most. Well, I don't think any actor can act like you make an impression. And I'll just tell you something. Don't be afraid of what MOST will do because it certainly won't behave like you do. By listening to your discussions, the only thing I remember was fascists, anti-fascists, communists, Ustashas. So I think in the divisions to build politics in this Croatian Parliament it is for 2016, I think you mentioned Ustashas, fascists at least five times. Do you really think in 2016 that the people at large policy options will still be divided one or the other, perhaps the other accepts this game because you homogenize the electoral body whether this more story really will stop and whether the Croatian people now need a common ground to spend something? Because MOST came because of the policy they had and colleagues on the left, now you and me on the right now to me or vice versa. So here's if you can appreciate this so you don't mention these divisions anymore and you don't insist on them because the people don't respect it anymore and it's not good anymore. That for democratisation, you're bringing Croatia back to a bad time. A state was created in the community. There's a colleague, in front of you sitting my fellow defender Fred Matic, of course on the second battlefield here... We created a Croatian state in common. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Don't split up and bring us back 45 years or 70 years and don't worry about Most, we know what we're going to do and how we're going to work. And because of this policy, as I told you, MOST was created.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4154	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4155	I wasn't talking about fascists or anti-fascists in my speech, I don't know where you got them from now on. I don't run the division of fellow Bulls. I don't run divisions. I didn't come here for this pay phone never in 2016 without a reason and started talking about fascists and anti-fascists. I talked about it, I warned the prime minister to appoint a culture minister to agree to the man who took the picture in that uniform. I'm sorry it's not my fault he took the picture. And what you want now, you expect me to keep my mouth shut. So what am I supposed to say, get the whole government dressed up like that? So when I protest and you say here's Stazic, all he knows is that's what you want? You won't expect it from me to keep quiet, you won't. You're saying I'm the one who's running the division. Divisions are made by one who allows it, who even thinks about naming such a minister, who thinks about the introduction of divisions. And you, as MOST, should have told the Prime Minister, and no, we're not for sharing, and you're not going to put such a man in the government, you're not, you're not, you're not, you're not, you're not, you're not, you're not, you're not, you're promised to the MOST, you promised that, you promised, you're the only one you didn't keep.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4156	Thank you. We're done with this replica. Next is the club of Croatian Labourists, the distinguished representative of Jaroslav Pecnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4157	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Shucker was told here while he was here that this left side was nervous about the appointment of Mr. Radman. I have to disappoint him, I'm neither nervous nor disappointed. I just think this Parliament has its powers, has its rights, and if everything is done by procedure and by law, I don't see any reason why anyone would be nervous. After all, we've heard from the President of the Parliament that it's all by procedure, but maybe it's not according to good customs and courtesy. Maybe that man should've been invited, so he'd have to show up. I think so. But something else bothers me in this whole story, and that's one political preparation if I may say so, Mr. Radman's parole officer. When I say shot, I don't value Mr. Radman, you'll hear what I'm going to say later, which I personally resent, so I don't think you have to catch that word. But I'm just going to warn you about what was going on on the political agenda, so I'll be free to remind you of the words of the Vice President of the Patriot Coalition, Mr. Karamark, when he said in Dubrovnik Neretva County when he spoke of the sympathisers. Let them clearly hear that HRT is in the role of one political option, one party. He's not a public service, he's not what he's supposed to be, because he lives on exactly what you pay a billion and 300 million kuna a year. For what? To lie to us, to make us crazy because we're patriots, to caricate everything we say, to Satanize us will be a change in HRT. It's a clear announcement that it's not really taking too much care of the procedure, it's actually about something else. Another important man from the Patriot coalition Mr. Miljan Brkic said something like this in one place, that he accused a part of the employees of working in favour of foreign secret services. Radman allowed the services of other countries to train and manage part of employees and thus regulate the program through which political spins and divisions in society, muds our country, etc. etc. Now I must mention, of course, what MOST said because it is a coalition partner, MOST was a little bit more cautious here, and it says about this: "Goran Radman has been convicted of conflict of interest, as such, damages the reputation of HRT both in Croatia and internationally. We have clearly highlighted in our programme reforms and the fight against corruption, and therefore we support the shift of Goran Radman." When it comes to corruption and conflict of interest, I remind those who may have forgotten about the case, let's say Gojan, the conflict of interest of Mr Radman, which was warned by the Committee and finally he complained, so the Administrative Court was slow to lose. The point is that he owned both the company and the Management Board as well as the Supervisory Board as it is called Hypo alpe adria, etc. Now, all of this would be nice if, say, MOST wasn't sometimes inconsistencies in what it advocates, sometimes it's really open-minded looking at what's going on. Then close your eyes, and then it's very difficult to assess how and how he thinks. But for Mr. Radman's shift to state the reasons, and they should stem from what he gave as his program when he came to the director of television. So then he talked about the functional multimedia organisation and the integration of HRT, the parent structure of 2013 and editorial policy. In other words, there's even talk about what's the role of the radio, here at all, just talk about television, there's no mention of radio at all, and there's a medium that's just as powerful as television, only we don't see it and that has its own importance but we don't mention it at all. So that's where it came out and I'll talk later when it comes to HRT's programming activities because it's not the subject right now, and I'll talk about it extensively, because thank God I know something about it. It means you mentioned it. Or that it was emphasized that professionalism should be strengthened, that in some way, why HRT, the second programme has become a family programme, although in the Law on HRT there is no indication that there should be a family programme. He got out of sports, got out of the children's program, etc. It's all turned into estradius. There's a state of cold war on TV between programs and production. It would go a long way to explain what a program and production is, but these are sections that actually kind of point to that bad form on HTV. The whole series of shows that are great like "Ecumen", "Spiritary Challenges" and that I don't list are moving from the terms that were previously viewed in some completely pointless terms when no one can follow them just because they speak in a more free manner of things they do. I could count a lot of things here, too, but no. They don't mention it for any reason, it's not for a shift, it's double accounting. We've heard different opinions here, if that's what it is, whether it isn't. I don't know, but no one mentions that HRT ended this year with a win. Almost 70 million kuna is HRT winning. I'm talking about the data I have. If you have any others, I'd like you to present it to me, but in the right way. What exactly is Mr. Radman's sin? Mr. Radman's sin is that he didn't really interfere with his own business. I was saying a little before, so he got involved in his own business, at least some of what he said in his program would at least try to apply it in some way. No, it didn't work. And now there's a lot of anger because Mr. Radman is a commissioner, Mr. Radman is running left politics, he wants to control media space on behalf of the SDP, turn television into one television. That's just not true. Because if you're looking at a little program, and that's what you in HDZ like to count the minute who was on HTV, which is totally pointless, but then you'll get results that show that you don't have too much reason to be angry with Mr. Radman. It's not a speech in Mr. Radman's defense, I think it's clearly referred to as critical enough as it is thought, but it's simply not true. Let's say you in MOST don't have to be angry either because MOST is part of, the media product of actually HRT. And with all due respect to your respect, I know there will be a replica, but you have no reason, with all the respects of the number of votes of mandates and all the honors you've received and there's no objection but you've been a fan of television. You've been new, interesting, and all of this has an excuse. But there was a step further. And that's what I, as a television viewer, notice. Whether it's true or not, we can discuss it. But you know about the tastes of decent people don't discuss. They're making their point, aren't they? But there is such a belief in the public. And what I really think is a problem, which is that it's unacceptable that the Director-General's shift is done without his presence. We heard the arguments, but I said I thought it was rude. The Director's work report has not been discussed, only the Supervisory Board's report has been considered. If we're talking about a new V.D. Director Sinisha Kovacic is said to be a good, decent journalist. It may be that he's a good and decent journalist, I can't judge it, I've seen him as the head of the Diaries, he reads the news, and now I may not know how to discuss the choices of the news, what he read, how he comments, etc., but it's again a thing that everyone can have an opinion on. But what bothers me about Mr. Kovacic is that he is like the president of the Croatian Society of Journalists and Publishers who actually supported the government in defending her from journalists. It's a paradox, that a journalist acts against journalists, not to support fellow journalists, but to support the government. That's something for Ripley, I have to admit. There are other objections, but if I say that, there'll be too many replicas, and then I'd better leave it to myself, right? In other words, what is Mr. Radman? Mr. Radman missed turning HRT into a public service. And that's his biggest mistake. Not what you're putting on him, he just missed turning HRT into a public service. And the government now does not want to correct this mistake with this shift, but rather wants to set up its own man and bring the situation to HRT before the amendment and addition of the Law on HRT and before the change of administration with Mr Popovac. And if that's the intensity, which I think it is, then it's actually about this story that gets Kurt to ride Murt. And if that's what's left of it, and we're going to see the bill on HRT, then it's actually all pathetic and completely pointless. Models exist, I'll talk about them when I talk about program action, but I'll just warn there are a number of problems that are not discussed at all. The BBC has a very clear model and it just needs to look at it, adapt it to us, and I don't think there's gonna be a problem then. And this kind of separation senseless doesn't really lead anywhere. That's it. In other words, we will be restrained as far as Mr. Radman is concerned, and I will personally vote against Mr. Kovaciæ even though I have no reason other than... No, no, I think that's enough reason, I say it myself, so I personally, am sufficient reason if a journalist is against journalists, if a journalist is supporting the government to protect them from journalists. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And I guess the government's not a face bear that needs that protection, I guess I can protect myself.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4158	Thank you very much. We have one replica, distinguished representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4159	I'd like to rephrase to an esteemed colleague, and I don't know if you've read the law based on what's going on because in your presentation you spoke several times contrary to the provisions of the law. I don't know if you're aware of that. Did you do it on purpose? What you're saying about the program is not defined by law at all, anywhere. The law only defines the main provisions, and the programme is defined in a contract between the government and the HRT signed for 5 years without any of us seeing it. To change anything in the program fundamentally, you have to change that contract. That's why what the Supervisory Board has indicated is of existential importance, and that's what I'm going to say in my presentation. As for this journalist against journalists, you may know better than I do, discussions and discussion between journalists associations, groups and individuals of journalists are stronger than we do in the Croatian Parliament from individual political blocks, much stronger. And that's not the case now and it's not specific to Croatia, it's been happening all over Europe all the time since it's been free journalism. Different associations, different views, so don't say that it's a sin if some news society thinks one thing and another news society thinks the other. It's simply pluralism and their opinions and let it be. And the BBC's proposal and the BBC model may not have been followed for the last six months by a heated debate over the future of the BBC. The UK Culture Minister has requested changes to the model and changes are already taking place. And this model that you're describing as an example will soon not exist. And nobody thinks it's political pressure. I'm warning you about the articles in Guardian and Newsweek.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4160	Replica reply, distinguished representative Jaroslav Pecnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4161	So I've had this column in the New List for 10 years, so I guess I know something about this journalism, but I'm in some kind of touch, of course not as a former culture minister, but as a direct producer of texts in the paper, which is a big difference. The second thing about the BBC, it would take us a long way, I'm talking about a condition that is currently, which we'll see. I'm following because that's what I'm interested in. And what you were saying about the law. I've heard your objections to Mr. Stazic. Does it have to be answered at all? Well, it's not just that, it's about the content that you essentially avoid talking about him because he doesn't interest you at all. And it's your only refuge law and it should be, of course, don't tell me right now I'm against the law. Of course I do. But if that's all it was, well it was also legal to be anti-Semitism, legally it was also the Nürnber laws. And when journalists defend the government, it's like prisoners defending the prison administration, so it's funny.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4162	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST, distinguished representative Ljubica Ambrusec.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4163	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, representatives of this esteemed House. Based on what has been said on the subject of HRT, on the basis of the decision of the Croatian Supervisory Board to launch the HRT Director-General and on the basis of the submission of a proposal for a decision to resolve HRT Director-General Goran Radman, and in front of the Committee on Information, Information and Media of the Croatian Parliament, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, I will transfer the information from HRT and in connection with the shift of the director of Mr. Goran Radman. Why HRT CEO Goran Radman must be removed from this function. Croatian Director-General Goran Radman since he was elected to this post in 2012 has had affairs for the affair. He must therefore leave the principal because he is convicted of conflict of self-interest, does not respect the laws, ignores the decisions of the Supervisory Board, makes adverse decisions, replaces people without valid evidence, thereby significantly damages and damages the reputation of HRT in Croatia and the world. Here's some evidence of that claim. Radman under investigation by the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. Radman is under investigation by the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, it has been found that, apart from being head director of HRT and also director of Nautara. Member of the Supervisory Board of Hypo Adria Bank and Atlantic Group. Because of the scandal with his property card that he did not enter and report to the villa in Slovenia, it is Hotel Bohinj. Radman was justified that the hotel should not have been left in the property card because it is not in Croatia. The Commission's decision to decide on a conflict of interest found that it was not true and Radman had to report the property he has outside of Croatia to the property card. Radman then filed a lawsuit against the commission's decision. The administrative court in Zagreb has rejected the appeal and the verdict has not yet become powerful because Radman complained. Employment scandals, the appointment of incompetent and the like. In the editorial post Radman employs and appoints incompetent people towards family and family ties but still according to political criteria rather than professional ones. It is important to point out that the persons he has proposed for certain functions have not received the support of most creative staff at HRT and that Radman did not consider them and has nevertheless placed them on important functions. Also mentioned is scandalous co-operation with Serbia's Radiotelevision, chief director Radman reportedly wrote the portal, and on behalf of HRT, Serbia's Radiotelevision, bought a series on the lives of two homosexuals for 85 million kuna. He allegedly compensated it on the basis of the debt that Sasa Runjic had according to RTS. The current director of the HRT programme, namely the debt was created prior to Runjic's arrival at HRT and this is due to the shooting of the series "The Theatre in the House" the masterpiece of the "Posvorište in the House" whose producer was currently Sasa Runjic. Anti-legislative dismissals and shifts to the damage of HRT, Karolini Vidović-Kristo, editors and journalists. Radman's decision to cancel the municipal labour court has been declared illegal and has returned to its old workplace. Also, newspaper editor Elizabeth Gojan Radman resigned, the Municipal Court ruled and returned to work by temporary measure Gojan. At the same time, Hlorka Novak-Srcic was a long-time journalist and was fired and then retired and the court dispute allegedly has not ended. Branimir Bilic, a long-standing editor and journalist, was cut off from the show "A Voice for Man." After warning in his letter to the HRT Programme Council of a bad programme of editorial regulations, bad organisation and various other irregularities such as: the possible harmful HRT contracts with ZAMP. Former members of the HRT Supervisory Board and the Administration reported criminally by HRT chief director Radman, harmful contracts with ZAMP. The most serious charges of abuse of positions brought by Chief Director Goran Radman to the Croatian public by the DORH and reported. Former member of the HRT Supervisory Board Drazen Rajkovic and former member of HRT Management Marko Ugarkovic. Namely, they indicated to the state attorney's office the application of HRT chief director Goran Radman to be charged with abuse of positions and powers. And former chairman of Victor Gotovina's Supervisory Board that he helped him after he committed the crime. In addition, according to Radman's report, in December 2012, the adoption of a new price list by reimming the HRT programme to pay for your platform with significantly lower prices has favoured operators, rather than favouring the claims already prepared to protect HRT from the damage caused by pirated replaying of HRT's pay programmes. A platform for cable, satellite and internet television operators. It is estimated that during 2012, damages of more than tens of millions of kunas were done, i.e. only for that year the loss of HRT in the payment of the operator amounts to between 34 million kuna and 37 million kuna in the application to the DORH. Drazen Rajkovic also warned that Radman made a decision to help the EBE cable representative re-immand the right to re-immand their local service to ZAMP, to re-negotiate the contract, prepared a contract to collect money belonging to Croatian radio television. I would like to remind you that since November 2011 at the meeting of the then Management Board of the HRT, a decision has been unanimously taken to cancel the powers of the representative... which represented HRT as a rule of reimming public television programmes in cable and other pay TV networks, platforms. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, Drazen Rajkovic has repeatedly warned that there is a suspicion that Radman damaged the HRT in total for as many as a billion kunas insisting that signing is harmful by the basis of the ZAMP contract. Rajkovic asked for the topic to be put on the Board's agenda, but it was already well-studged maneuvers he avoided. Namely, after that, the Croatian Parliament is 20.3.2015. Rajkovic and three other members of the HRT Supervisory Board were relieved of their duties, and he appointed a new four members in 3.7.2015 and interestingly that new meeting of the Supervisory Board for the same month, so in 28.7.2015 he adopted the Annual report on the work and implementation of the supervision of the legality of the work and financial operations of the HRT for 2014 without contacting the previous meeting of the Supervisory Board, which is actually relevant to give the report, given that the report refers to the year within its term of office from 30.11.2012 to 20.3.2015. In addition, due to the shift of central TV, HRT daily loses 52 million marketing kunas per year. Major criticisms of the professional and wider public are being addressed because of the poor programme, the constant changing of the terms and channels of the broadcast of individual emissions. Especially great dissatisfaction followed the promotion of central TV Dnevnik on HTV1 from 19.30 to 19.00 hours. The decision was taken without concrete analysis and testing. Croatian Radio Television Director Sasa Runjic said while I am Director Dnevnik stays at 1900 hours. BBC in the Central TV Information Media Service Journal of the IMS, an analysis of two BBC people who stayed for two weeks on Prisavlje and announced to analyse the Journal and inform media services. For an information media service headed by editor Lmija Alečković, they said it was dysfunctional, bad, poorly organised, without good communication. For the central HTV daily, they claimed that it was insecure, boring, uninteresting, with no relevant information, that it did not meet modern information standards, its duration was too long and tiring. It remains a vague idea why the Dnevnik was even moved to an earlier period at 1900 hours, which was to be achieved, and which is actually a form because it now resembles a magazine rather than a main daily information system. The HRT Programme Council therefore requested an insight into the analysis mentioned, and they were interested in how much it was paid and who ordered the analysis. The director of Sasa Runjic's programme was completely bagatelised there, and told the Programme Council that there was no BBC analysis but that it was a report by two permanent colleagues who held workshops for HRT. Ignorant media policy towards Croats outside the Republic of Croatia with an emphasis on Croats in BiH. Under the contract between HRT and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, HRT for the production of the programme for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia was referred 13.2 million kuna, with a dedicated spending of just over 3 million kuna. So the question is, where are the remaining ten million kunas? HTV produces weekly shows "View Over the Border", "Croatian in BiH", and "Vlas Domina" that are intended for Croatians in BiH, or Croatian minorities in neighbouring countries and Croatian emigration. These shows have embarrassingly poor broadcasting terms which are done with the intention of marginalising them, justifying that they are not interested in television audiences. It is interesting that the show "View Over the Border" and "Croatian in BiH" is replayed on BiH television in a much better time than on HTV, showing interest in the show and its importance for the Croatian people in the neighbouring country. After the show achieved such success, its editor Ivan Kujundzic was punished by degradation and by a proposal for a drastic wage reduction. Both mentioned television shows for 50 prime broadcasts per year have a shamefully small annual budget of about 70,000 kuna, amounting to less than 2,000 kuna per half hour. As regards the Croatian Radio for Immigrants, a full-day information program is produced titled "The Voice of Croatia" with an unclear editorial corporation. The production of this radio program annually costs about 3 million kunas. So there remains a vague fate purposefully spent 10 million kunas as I have already mentioned. Several times this topic was launched on the Assembly Committee for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia as well as in the State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, but no answers have been received from HRT to the question of the fate of the money, about 10 million kuna. In 2014, the director-in-chief did not even respond to the committee's meeting, although he was invited in time to show such a ignoring attitude towards this working body of the Croatian Parliament and confirms his policy contrary not only to the public, national, but also to the state interest of the Republic of Croatia. This is accompanied by the fact that Radman abolished correspondence in Sarajevo and Mostar, otherwise correspondence was in the BiH TV building for free in Sarajevo. So it's gone. Radman refused to give an insight into the individual pay data on HRT and partially complied with the request of the Parliament. The boast of HRT director Goran Radman, who refused to give the Croatian Parliament and the public detailed and valid information about his salary and salaries of chief editors and directors of public national television is unimaginable. All those financed from the budget and from the money of citizens, ministers, MPs, as well as leading HRT people have an obligation to publicly publish data on incomes as well as the property situation before coming to those positions. There's so much more I could say about Radman, but since time is leaking, I can only say the position of the Most Representatives' Club. The HRT needs to urgently send a financial inspection and perform an audit. Director-General Goran Radman should be immediately removed from this function as well as all incompetent editors and managers who were Radman's choice and were put in charge of similarity or became editors of emissions promoting not public interests but working interests in the interest of group capital and banking elites. Therefore, HRT needs to be free of politics and return to the sphere of profession and the preservation of public goods promotion and Croatian national interests which are why our citizens are paying for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4164	Thank you. We have one replica, the distinguished representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4165	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Ambrusec, I came forward with this replica on the trail of what my colleagues used to say here. Your debate here for 15 minutes was or she might have been appropriate if there had been a report here on HRT's work and that Mr. Radman was here. You're really here, don't be angry, but you've really thrown a bunch of it in the introduction, and you said why Mr. Radman has to leave. However, what is the essence of this whole story and what we have received here on benches as representatives is the finding of the Supervisory Board or the Supervisory Board has launched a procedure for the replacement of the head director of HRT because it did not respect the provision of Article 38 of the Law requesting separate accounting. So... It's just that separate accounting is being run. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Director-General commented at the meeting in order to ensure significant human resources and that this is one of the reasons why this has not happened so far. The Deputy Chairman of the Croatian Supervisory Board says and points out that the definition of public and commercial revenues is unclear and that if all revenues are public then the introduction of accounting costs will be difficult to achieve. Then Goran Radman speaks at the same meeting as the content is chosen exclusively by the criteria of public values and that in fact all HRT production is of public interest. And even there's a "Bingo" show. What we are certainly interested in and what is the essence of this whole story, which is actually the use of public money, and what concerns me is actually from Mrs. Anja Šovagović-Despot, a member of the Supervisory Board, who says: "The public content should be made commercial and that it is also the task of television." There's a problem, and that's where we'll all agree on the problem. When you say why Mr. Radman has to leave, and you don't tell the essence of this whole story. And tomorrow, the new director of HRT will face the essence of whether really public television should become commercial television and where is the border? Where's the limit actually to determining the public interest of the commercial one? Because certainly if the commercial interest prevails, it won't be public television.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4166	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4167	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. We at the HDZ Club have prepared two speeches for this debate. One if anyone is almost present from the SDP and the HNS and another speech that we will present if respected SDP and HNS colleagues do not, of course, become the case now. But we're used to it. Because the same amount of ignoring by respected colleagues was present during all debates concerning HRT. This time with the amount of ignoring there is also an enviable amount of incompetence and ignorance. So I'm going to try to read and present this second speech that has an enlightening purpose with the main thought that we refer respected colleagues and colleagues to the law that they have brought along with our own if you remember colleagues and colleagues fiercely resisting and resisting. Not only our fierce resistance and opposition, but also the opposition from the European Commission, that is, their official letter, which indicates that the law falls under democratic standards in relation to the 2010 law. If Mr. Radman's shift is a political shift, as some claim, then Mr. Radman is a political factor. And if Mr. Radman is a political factor, then it means politics is behind him. So I'd like to ask my colleagues and colleagues if it's true that you admit it and if it's not true that we're really discussing the metrics. It is completely irrelevant what colleagues say that this double accounting issue is ephemeral. It is a demonstration of the ignorance of the management and future of the public media service. That's a crucial question. You know why? Because HRT is allowed to collect a subscription to be treated by the European Commission as a type of State aid only if it produces software content which commercial televisions do not produce. These software content are defined by a contract with the government, a 5-year contract where exactly a minute is prescribed what type of programme should be produced with these money and broadcast. It is therefore important to double accounting because it is the European Commission's request since 2011. In 2011, the administration started to do this and develop the system, rather it was done by the respected Mr. Josic and this documentation exists. In order to defend the position of the subscription allowing the existence of a public and media service anywhere there must be separate accounting. The problem is not as distinguished counterpart Stazic has said since the last months or since the election campaign. The Supervisory Boards have warned of that before. The Council for Electronic Media has also warned as an independent regulator before that. The old conclusion was that this must be introduced from at least 1.1.2016. These urgent memos, which were quoted and mentioned, followed a statement that this would not be done on 1.1.2016. Therefore, duty, legal duty, and I refer you to Articles 10, 20. Amendment and addition of the HRT Act, it is the supervisory board's duty to warn the Director and to give him the time limit to fix it. It's not a 60-day deadline. After that, the Supervisory Board shall adopt a proposal for a resolution, since it is, by law, an explicit Article 20. We are not in charge here, nor our dear colleagues and colleagues, nor Mr. President of the Parliament, nor anyone else to interpret it, but it is clearly prescribed by law. Stick to the law. The independent regulator had long before these demonstrations were mentioned made those conclusions and asked for it. Long before. By the way, both the Supervisory Board and the Council for Electronic Media have been elected mainly by a large majority of the ruling coalition's votes in the previous assembly of parliaments. Not the HDZ votes. I remind you that last time the Supervisory Board asked Mr. Radman to resign here in the Croatian Parliament that after that, the Supervisory Board had been removed and Mr. Radman had been detained. Now I ask you who respects the democracy and procedure of the chosen institution? If you think that the Agency for Electronic Media, whose report we will have, and we will be able to discuss it, and if you think that the Supervisory Board whose report we will have and can discuss has violated the law and its legal powers, ask for their resignation. If you don't think, then please follow the law. Not the 2010 law that was made on the basis of political consensus. It was designed so that it contained the obligation of two-thirds of the vote. But not the politicians in the Parliament, but the members of the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board. Their operation was systematically disabled in time V.D. Mr. Novokmet's directories when they didn't fill in, when they didn't fill in those functions, the places that were vacant, and that's why these bodies couldn't function. Everything else is a lie. And I can prove it with the records. Not a single time we asked Mr. Radman to appear here in the Parliament, when we knew who the opposition would interrupt the sessions didn't show up. He used to show up at the thematic sessions of the Media Committee. However, once we have reached conclusions at these meetings of the Media Committee never but never, I say this under full responsibility we have not received adequate answers to those conclusions. We even had to work around the salary, so we got the excel plate, but we never got the pay annexes and there's the key. There's a key in them. And why do they even exist? As for the 2010 law, under the law, no parliamentary majority could ever decide on its own on the leading structures, it was wiped out of the country's face. Today some gentlemen are talking about the Finnish model. Oh, no, please! Today, individuals here speak to me in the Croatian Assembly about the BBC model. Oh, come on, what ignorance! What incompetence! Now I will quote to you the English Culture Minister Mr. Whittingdale of English Torian, who even Mr. Milanovic points out as a real democratic option in Europe, who says here at the beginning of this year, who says that citizens and politicians question the objectivity and efficiency of the BBC and that they are looking for new models and that citizens and politicians have the right to do so and that it is not the BBC that will determine whether citizens or politicians have the right to do so, but the citizens who chose them. Well, the citizens chose us to say that we are not satisfied with the work of Mr. Director and that we are looking for changes, even if they were according to the law that you passed by voting us here and destroying the political consensus. According to the law, according to the findings of the Supervisory Board you chose, according to the findings of the independent regulator of the Electronic Media Agency that you chose. Do people lie to you? Do these people break the law and what they write isn't true? I claim it isn't, and whoever claims otherwise or doesn't know or doesn't tell the truth. Did the Supervisory Board of the last to ask for Mr. Radman's resignation lie and transfer all responsibilities? I'm saying he didn't, that he acted in accordance with the law. And I'm saying that politics kept Mr. Radman there because he was responding to them, because because of his poor image or poor reputation that he represented was actually politically dependent on the parliamentary majority. That's why there's been a change in any overpayments, be careful at the 10th month. When was the election? Well, a few weeks behind that. Interesting! As for the debate on the future candidate, I would like to ask my distinguished colleagues and colleagues to take two résumés of the current director and the one proposed for V.D. Let them compare them well, especially the part about political activities and attitudes and impartiality. Please don't use one principle for ours and one for yours. Read each other's résumés. If you think we're going to give up the 2014 report debate, no, we're going to insist on it. We will join colleagues and colleagues from MOST who will ask for a precise financial situation on Croatian broadcasting. Because you know colleagues and colleagues, very often in history the one who is called upon to be very politically persecuted has other interests as well. We will ask the question whether those who received higher wages for false diplomas were punished for being established. We'll ask how and how the funds were spent. We're going to ask if it's true that the purchases of equipment are paid in advance. Are we exactly asking her a question? Is it true that an advance is paid by HRT to purchase technical equipment without signed contracts? Oh, personally, I wouldn't want that to be true. It would be a further degradation of everything we've seen with public media service in recent years. This act of the Supervisory Board and this act of the Electronic Media Agency is the last attempt to defend the little integrity left on HRT, the little respected colleagues and colleagues. We didn't say anything about the program in this presentation. All we're asking is for the law to be respected, the law that you've passed in the pursuit of media policy last termed by the Parliament, when you've changed who on the tape legislative solutions related to the media and exclusively and always related to those articles to change the leading furniture and to give them huge powers in your hands. Well, when these enormous powers are not enough to carry out an ephermic thing to defend a public media service, which is separate accounting, which I warn you to read again articles 66, 67. Laws on electronic media and Articles 19 and 20. The law on HRT must then, in that case, support the proposal put forward by the Supervisory Board, which is the replacement of Mr. Radman and propose and support the selection of a new candidate. and support the election of a new candidate. We didn't say anything about ideology or the program. That's what those who don't have other arguments say.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4168	Thank you very much. We have a replica of the distinguished representative Milorad Pupovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4169	I don't know if your esteemed colleague heard you from the president of your party, this last of your sentiments in your otherwise good speech, but the only thing we've heard from him in the past month was a program including members from two days ago. I'm paying the subscription, so I want the program I think it should be. In doing so, he leveled with most of the citizens. But most citizens are not vice-presidents of the government, and they cannot afford to have a majority in Parliament and that they can create a programme of what they want. So, buddy, you had a good exposure and you enlightened a lot of us just like you wanted but for the wrong thing. You've been telling the truth a lot, but you've been covering up something that's not good truth. Most of the exposure was about the program, including the colleague who spoke before you, including your colleagues from your part of the club, most of it. And that's what's worrying. We don't have the right to do it the way we do it. We have the right to take care of the material financial management of the public service of HRT, we have the obligation to take care of the values of the program but to edit the Dnevnik or to edit the film program or the documentary program none of us have the right to do so. For that reason, I'll repeat once again you've had a good exposure, but in a month, two days, you might be ashamed of putting him in a bad position.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4170	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Jasen Mesic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4171	My dear colleague, I didn't say anything about the program. I'm saving it for the debate under the programme council report. I'll give myself a break then, not speak on behalf of the club, but individually, so that I don't burden myself with my personal sharp attitudes otherwise with a moderate HDZ attitude. As far as Mr. Karamark's views are concerned, he has in his own way paraphrased Mr. Whitingdale's English Culture Minister who told you what I directly quoted. And he said both politicians and citizens have the right to criticise public media services. And he added that it is not the public media service that has the power to assess whether it is justified or not. I'll give you a photocopy is not great. Because there is a heated debate in the UK that needs to be a public media service. I repeat, I didn't say a word about the program. And as far as you're concerned, you're a parliamentary representative who needs to protect the program of a respected colleague, you're too late. It's all in the government's contract between television and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And everything that needs to be respected in the program is written inside. And the only way to determine whether these programming principles and values are respected is to have separate accounting. Otherwise, neither you nor I will ever see him, as you probably haven't seen him, and he's signed for five years.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4172	Thank you very much. Now we're going to individual debates. The first one is the honorable representative God Ljubic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4173	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. In several debates, the opposition advocates have been asked today what we are talking about today. We have been on the agenda for a long time to report on financial operations and the report of the Supervisory Board and the Croatian Programme Council. I claim that through the discussion of the replacement of the head director of HRT is a sublimed substitial content actually all three of these reports. That's why I'm going to talk about this issue today, but I'm going to speak primarily from the position of representatives of Croats outside Croatia. A colleague of the club MOST spoke of failure to fulfil obligations, violations of the law and violation of the agreement between the government and the HRT and I will not, of course, repeat it. The second question I want to talk about and which requires an answer, of course, is the Croatian attitude towards informing Croats in BiH or in general Croats outside Croatia or if you want to inform the Croats on both sides of the border and Croatians in the diaspora. I have already pointed to the disastrous position of Croats in BiH in the public electronic media of BiH several times from this pay phone, but I will remind this occasion that within the public TV system of BiH, there are three public TV services, however, neither Croatians are represented nor recognised as an equal and forming element. Badava is that all Croatian parties, all representatives of Croats at all levels in all homes, are looking for reform of the RTV system or the introduction of a RTV service that would handle topics of informative, cultural and even identical character of the interest of Croats in BiH. Any attempt comes under the uniform refusal of representatives of Bosniak parties or Serbs. In doing so, if necessary, they will also point out the vital national interest to prevent the adoption of laws that would allow Croatians to be informed in Croatian language in Croatian culture and identity. Imagine the paradox, the vital national interest of Bosniak parties was that Croats do not have a Croatian TV service and this happened in the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The consequence is that we Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina are unable to meet each other, those from the north with those from the south, those from the west with those from the east. And we Croats are also unable to meet us in Bosnia and Herzegovina, those in the diaspora and those in Croatia precisely because of the policy of the RTV system here in Croatia. And why am I talking about it? Well, because HRT meets its obligations under the law and the Constitution should have its own obligation to inform a broad Croatian national being. The need exists if I speak from the position of Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina. If nothing because at least one-third of Croatians are here in Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina's great-grandmothers and are interested in what's going on in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The second and most important issue to be informed about is the dynamics of events in Bosnia and Herzegovina that are affected by many factors, as a consequence of the war, factors from the east of Russia, Turkey, the Arab world that change both the cultural and demographic images of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I believe that this is, in any case, the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia. But what was HRT's policy in the last four years? My colleague Ambrusec said about it, we had two correspondence in Sarajevo and Mostar, both of which were abolished, surely rational reasons were not at stake because both were actually completely free. One in BHRT in Sarajevo, the other in the premises of the Croatian Cultural Society Progress in Mostar. And why was it done? At this point, I can only speculate whether it is intended to marginalise or minorise Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina by the former authority that influenced HRT because it is allegedly HDZ voters. Whether it is an inability to look at the strategic geopolitical importance of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the Croatian state, the inability to introduce the importance of BiH and Croat economic cooperation in the Republic of Croatia, the inability to finally see the strategic importance of the survival of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina in its long-term stability hearths and the territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia. Either way, from the new government in Croatia and the new leadership we hope to start choosing today I expect significant changes in relation to informing Croats outside Croatia. And right now, let me be clear, I don't mind the "View Over the Border" or "The Voice of Croatia" shows, but that's not enough. Croatia and Croats outside Croatia need to process topics from Bosnia and Herzegovina related and related, of course, to our minorities and to the Croatian diaspora in daily information and cultural content. And to conclude this part. According to Article 28 of the Treaty between the Croatian Republic and the Government of Croatia, the programme obligations of HRT are defined according to which HRT is obliged to offer its public services software content that meets the democratic, social and cultural needs of Croatian societies as well as Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. We heard here it wasn't done. Under two, the issue of Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia should be found in all HRT content, in all impact, information, in journals and news, in debate shows of type open, etc. and not just on shows that are broadcast in inappropriate terms, as we also had the opportunity to hear here. Article 29 of the Treaty states that HRT is required to broadcast emissions on Croats outside Croatia on the 1st programme, but they are broadcast on the 4th programme. Article 44 of the Treaty defines the other laws of the prescribed obligations of the HRT. I quote HRT will produce and publish programmes aimed at informing members of Croatian people outside the Republic of Croatia as well as programmes intended for the public in the Republic of Croatia concerning life and events and problems of Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia in all information emissions. We're witnessing it's gone. After five, that everything is not how the acts are prescribed, the report of the Programme Council that we are about to discuss also confirms. Technical preconditions are also needed to achieve this. It should therefore review the decision to abolish HRT correspondence in Sarajevo and Mostar and to bring all of BiH together with more than half a million Croats on a single-camera correspondent without a single chair. Bosnia and Herzegovina is an important neighbour for the Republic of Croatia, connects us with 1,000km of long borders, connects us with national and economic interest, cultural and spiritual heritage. And it is unacceptable that the state in which Croatians are a constituent nation so important for the Republic of Croatia would be treated in the HRT programme as a distant African and Asian country. And if we don't know the right thing to do, then let's see how those who know how to do it do it. In Hungary, there is a special television channel, Duna TV funded by the Budapest government, which produces a full day programme exclusively for Hungarians outside Hungary. So, colleagues and colleagues, regardless of what some today would like to raise this topic and this item on the agenda to a report by the Supervisory Board on financial matters, I believe that the subject of the Director General... Everything HRT should be and not be within itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4174	Thank you very much. We also have one replica, which is the esteemed representative of Jaroslav Pecnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4175	Mr. I'll just kiss for a little while. This last thing I heard, I didn't answer for it, but here I'm going to take advantage of the opportunity, you said Duna, studio Duna in Hungary, since I'm from Osijek, I can look very well at it, the problem is one, they're really broadcasting the program for Slovaks, or for Hungarians in Slovakia, etc., in Romania wherever there are, but don't forget one thing, it's all under the auspices of what was after the 1990s Antal, the Hungarian president who said he was the president of all Hungarians. And there's the problem. It is a problem for Hungarians outside Hungary. I don't know if you understand me. If I have to explain, but I think the message is quite clear. So it is therefore a message not to actually take care of Hungarians outside the country but that they are part of a large country. It's a problematic approach. Take a closer look, and you'll understand. And secondly, what you were saying about Bosnia and Herzegovina, about the obligation of HRT, I can agree with you, and I really think that this is not just about quality, quantity but also about the quality of contributions that are required to introduce us to the situation in BiH, and I think so much that what you're saying about abolishing the study, etc. If that's where HRT's bad intentions are sought, then perhaps bad intentions can be sought. But look in Croatia at the Zagreb – Osijek move you do not have a single study centre. Therefore, we should be far more angry about what we don't have, and we don't have in BiH either. So maybe it's not just an evil intention, and I believe it's not, but it's just not caring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4176	The honourable representative Bozo Ljubic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4177	Comrade Pecnik, if I understand correctly, so correct the essence or motive of your replica, perhaps later if I'm wrong. You're actually afraid of some kind of Croatian paternalism over the Croats in BiH. It's absolutely not about that, and it's not what you should be afraid of. I'd be the last to advocate it. I believe that we Croats have two countries of our own, Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina in which we are formed, i.e. the constituent people. Croatia has achieved its sovereignty and Croatians in Croatia have exercised their national rights in the Republic of Croatia. We Croats in BiH unfortunately still are not, even what we received from the agreements from Washington and Dayton was decorated with the same crawling or violent audits and our position in public electronic media is actually just a reflection of our unfavourable constitutional position. I say so, until the Croats have achieved their right to do so, I am convinced that we will get a rTV service that will allow us to present ourselves to our national, cultural, linguistic and every other identity of HRT has the full right and obligation to bridge that trunk. Therefore, I do not think, in any way, that the treatment of Croats in BiH, on HRT is a question of any paternalism, and if you have followed my debate, I have just put emphasis on the strategic interest of the Croatian state and the strategic national interest of the Croats in both countries and in the world to inform each other, i.e. to get to know each other and to cooperate better.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4178	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the distinguished representative of Ladislav Ilcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4179	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. I will tie my discussion on the replacement of the director of HRT to the renaissances, i.e. the image of the HRT which I would say is necessary in order to achieve the operation of the HRT as it should be. This image of the entire HRT is necessary and closely related to the image of the director of HRT and this image of HRT is today very low not only in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which Mr Ljubic spoke of, but also in much part of Croatia regarding Mr Radman's business moves, not only with the programme. I will also warn MPs that in addition to the information program, there are many other reactions that do excellent work, music production. I've personally been an employee of HRT, I have over 20 years of training on HRT, and you need to know that when the image of HRT falls in public as collateral victims, those parts of HRT that really work well. And that is why I would like all the anger that lies in the Croatian people, and also among politicians to create towards HRT, to always be critical and to be careful exactly who this anger refers to. You probably know that according to the new HRT Act, the director has really great powers. So other than these memoirs that have been abolished in BiH, and when it is especially put in the context that Turkey has over 30 journalists in BiH, that Serbs have practically in every city of correspondence, when it is put in that context as far as Croats are in a bad position must be called to account. Likewise in numerous Croatian cities where correspondence was abolished, where people simply began to perceive HRT less as their national television. In addition to seeing moves that I can't understand when the Dnevnik moved from half eight to seven hours, so when we lost those 4 minutes of propaganda program that brought down about 7.8 million kunas, even later when the Dnevnik had shortened to finish before 8 minutes ago, it was still reduced to 2 for that "Tv Potter". And then moving the sports program from second to fourth program, where even by some estimates, 15 million kuna came to a minus. So there are a number of business moves that are unreasonable to me. However, unlike fellow Mesic, I will say that anyone who thinks the director has no influence on the programme to make mistakes in any way, depending on which show they will receive money, how much money they will get, everything affects the programme. And I think that's exactly where one important part of the HRT's renaissance lost right through Mr. Radman's interventions, so, in any case, when I look at the overall action of Mr. Radman and where he led the HRT, that is, in that sense, instead of being some kind of link between all the people in Croatia, the different worldview, the different political preferences, I don't think his conduct of HRT went that way. That is why I believe that all the tensions he had with the supervisory board, and I repeat, he had very great powers, and yet he had great competitions with the supervisory board, that there was absolutely no tolerance and that the legality of what my colleague Mesic was saying was necessary. That's why I support Mr. Radman's shift from the head of HRT. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4180	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the distinguished representative of Ivan Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4181	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Here's when we talk about television as a single media for the vast majority of the elderly, the pensioners as we've heard before, the population of 50+ years, it's almost often the only thing to say with the radio media they trust, who follow and receive information. Let's say I personally don't have a TV or watch it and a large number of members of my generation here for us TV as far as extinction is concerned. The question is, what is the future of television in about 10 or 20 years? However, if we compare this data to most television viewers, especially HRT, from the time it was the only television from the '90s we'll find a match with the population most eligible to go to the elections and to those who watch TV the most. So, above all, the older population is more likely to go to elections than young people where turnout is smaller and such a population that let's say politically is not passively HRT emits political content. So the question of chicken or egg is whether they're politicians and political ideas on television because they're relevant and if we know that if you're relevant, you come on television. So the sooner it is, a chicken or an egg, that's a big question. Anyway, if you're not on TV, especially if you're not there in time of choice, you won't get anything. They ask you if you still exist, it's a cast voice you're just not relevant. Therefore, one who determines who will have and how much media space at the time of the election, in which time it will significantly decide which direction individual choices will go. So in this context I can say because I have passed presidential elections where there have been as many as 6 face-ups on TV and radios, two on HRT and one on Croatian Radio compared to parliamentary elections when there has been no confrontation except on New TV but at noon and only on the Internet, they have only done some small cuts. I would only remind myself of the scandal that took place that week from 2.11. to 8.11. when the HRT meeting was organised, and then it was embarrassingly delayed. According to some of my criteria, I don't think I know the polls or the government's warrant or any other institution has decided that only 5 parties will participate in Croatia's major participation, so on Friday 6th before the electoral silence, it was supposed to be the HDZ coalition, SDPs, MOST, HDSSB and IDS. There were several protests that week. The first was from the ORAH party and was another spontaneous when several hundred people came before HRT on the basis of my call to facebook when we made clear to Director Radman and other executive staff there what we think of their work. At the end of that circus, this confrontation was canceled, so there was no confrontation at all. Therefore, the Ethics Commission of the State Election Commission appeared and said that the interpretation of the selection criteria of the participants was too arbitrational and that such a confrontation would therefore have a biased effect on the creation of public opinion in favour of some participants. That's what I used to say if you're on TV citizens think you have a chance, if you don't stand a chance. It's huge power, huge power. I can split 10 million flyers, I can put a thousand jumbo posters in, but if you're not on TV, you're nothing. That is why, with everything the colleagues have been saying here, this is a huge failure by Mr Radman, a huge failure by HRT because it was wanted at a crucial moment in the final campaign for parliamentary elections to affect the outcome of the election. Radman took you right judge who's gonna say you're gonna come on TV, you're not gonna, ORAH can't, the living wall can't, I don't know other parties can't, I can't come just these, you're relevant and these others aren't. Instead of expanding that circle as much as it was in the presidential elections when I was the least represented candidate again. So the Ethics Commission of the DIP also confirmed the failure. And that is absolutely another reason why it is necessary to change the way HRT works and why I will vote for Radman's shift. I'm not sure if anyone will come again who will not continue Radman's policies and who in this case might be working for another political option. If after Radman there's gonna be a Radman, a Kradman or something else, we'll see about that, but Radman sure as hell can't stay here where he is. Our television and public service needs a thorough restructuring, it needs to be loosened up by that institution. It must no longer happen that Pharaoh heads the HRT and decides on the fates of political parties since such a political system is also the fate of the country. I heard a row today on the left and right, on the left and on the right here so-called. It's about who's gonna control the TV. I absolutely agree, however, where are all those who are not part of your political mile? What about those 40% of citizens who didn't go to the polls with that third who didn't vote for your two lists. What is their impact on the operation of HRT? Here I'm talking here on behalf of those who don't think like you, that we need to reform HRT which we'll talk more about when these points come up that we put on the agenda. As far as the execution is concerned, it's a story to itself, 80 kuna per month on some average pension of 2200 kuna is huge money. How many people were executed by an infamous law firm, Hanžekovic, who was given the right to work in a mile of HRT and then charged a subscription to HRT. It's an amazing story with the Croatian executive mafia, a similar story to Holding. However, without further ado, Mr. Radman will today receive a clear message from all those who are not part of it, let me put it this way, this regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4182	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the distinguished representative of Jakovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4183	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Enough of the discussion, the long debate, and I will try and be brief, or not repeat some of the things that have been said today. But I have to look into this one for me an extremely important topic. Were we in this assembly back four years, eight or 20 satisfied with HRT's work? We have not personally, I will say in the last few years that I have had very many objections to HRT's work as a citizen, as an HRT subscriber, as a government official or politician as well. Back in 4 years, a terrible decline, the viewership of HRT or commercial television at national level that took a good part of the ratings with a non-quality or poorer quality program. The decline in the quality of the information program with which HRT was once particularly proud and where they were strongest and most professional is one of these reasons. In the way HRT followed the farm portfolio back 4 years, especially because some fellow editors, some fellow journalists were far more critical, far more malicious, as my colleague Prgomet would have said, cheerleaders prepared their contributions and TV posts even the commercial TVs remained two were much more objective when reporting on agriculture. Some of these colleagues who have been professionals for many years have been making a big fuss, attacking the Ministry of Agriculture and me as a minister if the incentives, the first part of the incentives in agriculture would not go on January 15th but on January 25th and be paid in about 15 days. Gentlemen today is 4.3. Our farmers have not yet been paid the first part of the incentive. These same colleagues who are working today, they're doing HRT shows, they haven't said a word. So much for the cheerleading way of reporting and professionalism in their work. The third thing, it is also said today, too little sport, too little tracking of Croatian teams, too little of what we used to look at HRT than we all as citizens are left to buy it on some other programs and to follow the successes of our athletes, not the way we've been used to it for many years. But this Croatian radiotelevision has also made a whole series of good things back 4 years in that part of the educational programme, culture, even some projects that we worked together at the Ministry of Agriculture and HRT as a Zlata Valuable Project, Let's create together or Fair of indigenous products and winters where HTV was included as a partner are something to be commended for in any case. Today's debate and the way in which a fellow Radman is actually given no confidence and chooses a new V.D. The director is not something that according to the existing Law on HRT is challenging to you as the ruling majority in this House. However, your right, obligation and duty is to give a term of office to the director of this institution which will make it better, better quality as a public service. It's a matter of procedure and the question is hypocritical. You are calling for and exclusively making such a decision under this brief, accelerated, imposed procedure based on the negative indication of the Supervisory Board that came after the change of power, is not sufficient argument. This was to be discussed through the bodies of this High House, it was to come as a proposal from the parent board, to discuss in normal procedure. And I'd be the first to show illegality because of a failure or illegality to raise a shift arm and then evaluate the new director according to the results of the work he's going to have. What I heard in the debate I was particularly happy was actually inviting this right hand side of the assembly to justify this shift being done because it wasn't done in accordance with the Law on HRT. I hope the same principle, the same determination in defending Croatian laws when we have the Law on Sports, when we ask you to have the Croatian Football Federation as an institution that shames this country, which does a lot of things against the Law on Sports in the same way be the subject of your criticism and demand that the situation in the Croatian Football Federation be resolved in accordance with the Law on Sports. This is what I expect from you parliamentary majority as you are calling for illegalities under the Law on HRT to be the same thing as to encourage you to discuss the situation in the Croatian Football Federation and to address the situation in our most important alliance, the sports conference in the country. Or you won't do it because the executive board officials are mostly your colleagues who are highly positioned party officials or at the county level, and some of the former colleagues in this House. The procedure is a problem, you should respect it, you have all the keys, all the arguments if you have it. You have the modality and the way you could have done it, in a legal way, and not in this way that leaves a bitter taste in your mouth, which gives the possibility of actually interpreting that the only reason for such a contraction of the procedure is to control and divide the spoils, i.e. fast, short energy moves to control and direct the work of Croatian radiotelevision as a public service that is there to serve all Croatian citizens as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4184	Thank you very much. Before I give the word more replicas, my colleague Jakovina, you weren't there most of the time, so you probably didn't even look at the materials. So it's the committee that just proposed. Therefore, it is not true that the Committee did not, the parent committee did not discuss it. It is the Committee who has just proposed this, so that the procedure was absolutely normal to follow which it was supposed to be. It's only so much truth. Now we're going to the replicas. She's the first one to represent Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4185	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Jakovina, you mentioned that on HRT you were attacked when you were instigating agriculture, but in 2012, there were 68,000 dairy producers. Now we have 4800 dairy producers, and today we need more than 50% of our food. I'd like to look at this story in the context of how it should be done and solve our producers, even through public television to encourage production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4186	Thank you. The honourable representative of Jacobine will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4187	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear fellow Bull, for the sake of truth, when you give a replica, then you give it with accurate data. In 2004, when a milk control reference laboratory was established in Križevci, we had almost 64,000 dairy producers. In December 2011, when I became a minister, we had about 12,000 producers who worked intensively on their farms and taught milk in that same laboratory. The mandate has been completed by some 8,000 dairy producers. Yes, the situation in the dairy sector is extremely difficult. All four years we've been working on finding a solution to help these people through designing a direct support system, through everything we've done for these valuable farmers, people, but not in those amounts, this number of declines, or production itself, goes long before the government of Zoran Milanovic and me as minister. At the same time, the number of producers fell, but the quantity of milk produced remained at the same level with much higher quality. So in that part of the answer to your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4188	Thank you very much. Neither the replica nor the answer had much to do with the subject. But okay, let's go to the last two. We have final discussions. The first is on behalf of the SDSS club Reformist, the esteemed representative of Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4189	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. There are few things that cause so much attention in this House of Commons, such as discussions on Croatian broadcasting. But there's little of the same debate that shows our relationship to matters of public interest that we as the High House have a special role to play, which is that we actually choose the most responsible people on that head and that we influence how finance is run and how programming principles are achieved, programming goals. And this debate actually shows that we're acting about like a village that has a Lipican and a fight about who's going to ride it more and who's going to have a special right to have a horseman who's going to bring that Lipican in on Sundays or Saturdays that'll make us look better on that horse when we think we need it. If it's our purpose and our role as a legislative body, if it's a function assigned to us, so it's better if we don't have that role, we'd better leave it to someone else. Because what it looked like today is exactly what it shows. Our inability to protect (a) from the poor policy of directors, (b) from the bad policy of political parties and us who are in the Assembly and (c) to protect it from private interest and capital that is eager to do so against Croatian broadcasting as soon as possible, it ceases to be an object of interest and of this Assembly in order to get to what is most important in him. And what are we going to have left? Well, we'll be left with as much as anything else, and we'll be left with it to show that we can't take care of the public interest and the public interest and that sooner or later we deliver what's public good and public interest to those who have money and who have power. Badava mentioned a case of penalty payments for those who do not pay in time. The bad news is that the impact is only spreading. And I wouldn't be surprised if the penalty charge was due tomorrow to the ownership of HRT. Yeah, yeah. Well, you remember as well as how much and how the president of the former government suggested that the subscription be abolished. Not for the same reason that you and I would like the subscription to be controlled. And there's no doubt that with this kind of debate that's completely out of line for the protection of HRT, we're fighting, that's what you've been doing, so we can, right? Everyone sang their fighting songs, as fellow Shucker says, and then we'll continue with it. So if that's the point of this debate and it's the purpose of the Parliament's role in selecting directors and protecting public service, then let's just say we won't do it and we shouldn't do it. And in the end, my club will be kept on this. And as for the indications that exist here, so it's not Radman either, but it's not about us, it's about what Radman is like, but it's about who we are and whether we're capable of doing this the way the constitutional obligation tells us to do or not. Radman was only one in a series of directors, probably not the worst possible, and he certainly wasn't one of those who was under the most direct political influence of those who had political power, he wasn't. And neither was he particularly loved in this House nor those who had authority nor those who were opposition, we know it. And it's not my recommendation in the end, but the signs, and the proposal for a new V.D. is a sign, are always the basis for understanding what will come after that. And that's not a good sign, that's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4190	Thank you very much. Although your brief intervention has caused several replicas. First, she's the esteemed representative of Steve Cule.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4191	Dear President, dear fellow Pupovac, speaking of horses, I feel most called here because I am otherwise a great fan of this noble animal. And talk about Radman about a good servant of bad masters, not mentioning his journalists and his house in the context of the truth of conveying truth to Croatian citizens, Croats and all those who are interested in it, of course. I'll just look back at some events from the past, close. Of course, if we won't remember those journalists of the Predrin, those races, those enamored, resilient Croats who are on some wings, the consciences of the past are the least of the poor and the former state in common, I can't help but remember that some journalists in the newer time from Vukovar about beating up a Croatian young man by the three to call them a leper so they won't be unhappy that the news travels 5 days to Zagreb, and that news from Okučan about beating up one unfortunate man again travels 5 minutes to HRT. And as for you, Mr. Representative, I would tell you this is how you are the first to seek Radman's resignation because he has not adequately transferred your visit to the Osijek prison and war criminals awaiting a verdict there for the most serious forms of war crime against the Croatian man, Croatian defenders, prisoners and others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4192	Thank you. The next debate is final on behalf, not pardon, we still have a replica of the distinguished representative Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4193	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Pupovac, you've had an interesting debate, but I would still like to delude with you in the part where you talk about the responsibility of this Parliament and these political parties regarding the relationship with HRT and the director himself. I will not accept collective responsibility this time because in the past meeting that you were in, and you were part of the ruling majority, we had a debate about Mr. Radman and his unscrupulous ignoring of the Croatian Parliament when it came to our request to deliver the salaries of people from HRT. So he showed it then, you said he wasn't the best or the worst, but he was definitely the man who completely ignored his founder and the one he was obliged to provide certain data. So then you had a chance, I remember the debate and the parts of your colleagues from SDP and colleagues from Stazic, and it seemed to us here on the right that you would then seek responsibility and remove Radman. But it wasn't done exclusively for political reasons. So, we had a debate, and you had opportunities to show in that sumptuous political desire, the will, and the morale to move such a man away. You didn't do it. For this reason I take away your right to demand from us today from this side... That's what I said, don't, it's not democratic, but I'm saying it as part of the controversy, that you're transferring responsibility to all of us. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Because back then, when you were most, when you were in power, you could change that man because of your relationship with the Croatian Parliament and you didn't do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4194	Thank you very much. The esteemed Pupovac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4195	Dear counterpart Jandrokovic, there was a situation where our discussions on the current director or director on departure were indeed such that they should only have asked him to resign. There have been such discussions on my part. About why this did not happen, this House is responsible for so much that it has left power over that role and that fact has someone who is neither Government nor Parliament. So much to say and you and probably one number of people sitting here will know what it's about. Now, I thought that we here in this election would avoid that kind of mistake and that this House would at least show the need for this matter to be discussed properly and that it wouldn't be an expression of a political decree, of the messages spoken in the political campaign. So you're going to say I want the program to be like this and like it was said and as it was said here and then we need another director. That Parliament should not tolerate or allow it to be a reason. That is why I called for the need for this House to take over its role, not to play a role for someone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4196	Thank you very much. We have another replica, and this is the esteemed representative of Ivan Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4197	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Here's a fellow Pupovac mentioned a subscription attack, often over the top, more and more. If we remember at all how this subscription came about, we'll know clearly that at some point in time people went home and then determined who had the TV and created some sort of base of people, a big base that would then pay for the subscription. And from then on, nobody's actually asking you if you have that TV, whether you're working, whether you're being torn up, if you're even watching HRT, what about that TV. No, you still have bills coming in and you don't have to watch HRT at all, it's actually tax not on the program but on the apparatus. Having that machine somewhere in the corner or more of them, that's a tax on it. That is why I propose to either cancel the HRT subscription and finance the HRT after we restructure it directly from the budget or significantly reduce this fee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-04-0.u4198	Thank you very much. That would close the debate on this point. And we're going to vote. First of all, I would like to put to the vote the proposal for a decision to resolve the Director-General of Croatian Radio Television. The Proposer of the Decision is the Committee on Information, Information and Media. The debate is closed. Let's find the quorum, it's probably my fault. Thank you very much for your warning. The result, please. 88, so we have a quorum. So, here's a thank you again for the warning. We are therefore going to vote on the first point of the proposal for a decision to resolve the Director-General of Croatian Radio Television. The Proposer of the Decision is the Committee on Information, Information and Media. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to resolve the Director-General of Croatian Radio Television. I note that a majority of all MPs are required to make the proposed decision. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. 78 for, 29 abstentions and 4 against. Thank you very much. I find that most votes have been decided.
