ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u37	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, President of the Parliament, we are looking for a 15-minute break, the reason is the discriminatory attitude of the government towards nearly 500 people with disabilities who remain without a personal assistant. Thank you very much. On behalf of the club will speak Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u38	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u39	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, I request a 10-minute break to deliver an opinion on the illegal business of banks and on how this could change in this legislative body.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u40	Thank you. I approve of the break and for... Here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u41	Mr. President and the Croatian Democratic Community Club is looking for a break on the same topic as Mr. Sinisa Hajdas Doncic said.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u42	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u43	I am also looking for a break to also address questions but also to try to clarify the questions of personal assistants means a competition that is not open.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u44	All clubs are granted a break and after that, according to the order you have the opportunity to explain the reason for the break. Thank you. It's 10.10 o'clock. Next time after 10:00, 35 hours. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs would like to proceed with the session's work. The first club to report for a break is the SDP club. On their behalf, representative Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the SDP Representatives Club asked for a break because of the problem we warned of at a constitutional session of the Parliament. In fact, because of the fact that unless our government reacts most urgently in a week over 500 people with disabilities will be left without a personal assistant. The problem lies in the fact that on 28.10. will complete a one-year project that has provided more than 25 million kuna in the past year from the European Social Fund for Personal Assistant Services for more than 500 people with disabilities, and a new competition has not yet been opened despite numerous and minor warnings from respected associations such as the Alliance of Multiplesclerosis Society, the CDP Zagreb and last Friday's “Imagine” Association whose flyers you had on the benches. The problem is because of the fact that even if the tender was called today, when considering the necessary duration of the competition, the evaluation of applications and preparations for the implementation of the projects would be more than 8 months before personal assistants could return to work with people with disabilities. Dear Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues some among us know what this fact means and how disastrous it is for people with disabilities who need a personal assistant. However, let me read you a few personal testimony from the personal assistant service user to better understand the situation in which they are located. The service of my personal assistant is very important to me because through my assistant I have been given the opportunity to create my own life and determine my daily pace. Until the inclusion of a personal assistant in my everyday life, going to the gym, library or walking was unimaginable. Thanks to my assistant, I was given the opportunity to plan and organise my own free time outside of college and burden on my parents. It is generally very nice and nice to hear something about us and our successes, our positives and the fighting that inspires them all. However, very few people know what kind of machinery is behind us without which we could not function. When there is also a lack of interest and a lack of understanding, the understanding that such support is needed, especially by those who should be involved and present us with the result that has appeared. Dear Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the fact that this situation has at all taken place represents a kind of defeat of the system in front of the bad politicians. I don't know why Minister Juretic didn't call the tender in good time, especially if we also take into account the fact that all the necessary funds are already secured. However, demand for responsibility is secondary at this point. In a week, over 500 people with disabilities lose their personal assistant. This debate is an appeal to anyone who can help keep it from happening. Clearly, it will be necessary to find a way, perhaps some sort of guarantee to bridge the period between the opening of a new tender and the allocation of funds. At this stage, the problem will need to be solved at the highest level. We call on Prime Minister Plenkovic and Minister Murganic to meet urgently with representatives of persons with disabilities who have used personal assistance services and to find a solution to this difficult problem together, to lay the foundations for future cooperation in equating opportunities and ensuring dignity for people with disabilities. This is a more important issue from the trip to Brussels and from changing expensive panels at ministries. I've kept one witness for the end of this exhibit, because I believe it best illustrates the depth of the problems these people are in. While people without disabilities are most troubled by the question of what I'm going to wear tomorrow, we have a much bigger problem than who's going to dress us tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u47	I thank Representative Glavasevic. The next representative, i.e. the club that volunteered for the break is the club Let's change Croatia and strength. Their representative Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I must say a few words about the illegal business of banks in the Republic of Croatia. This illegal bank business has been going on since half last decade. In most of the loan contracts agreed before 1 January 2013, banks negotiated a variable interest rate in an illegal manner. How? They agreed on a variable interest rate in a way that was changed by the bank's decision. It's like I sell one of you a car for a hundred thousand kunas in ten wars at ten thousand kunas and then we enter into the contract a provision that any war can be changed the way I want it to be. Such contractual provision is not permitted under the Mandatory Relations Act. The Law on Mandatory Relations makes it clear that the contractual act must be either specific or specific. When it comes to interest, it's actually about the price of the loan. The credit price must be either fixed or must be determined. In order to be quantifiable, it must have certain data on the basis of which it is changed. The state would never know that if it wasn't for the Frank case. Namely, due to the growth of the Swiss franc rate in loans with the Swiss franc currency clause, the debtors rebelled. In that rebellion, they noticed that their interest was not agreed legally. As a result, the state understood and tried to change things by amending the Consumer Credit Act on 1 January 2014. Unfortunately, the banks then again acted on their own initiative and instead of agreeing with their debtors a variable interest rate in the correct way, instead of agreeing with them a variable part of the interest rate, a fixed part of the interest rate and periods of change in interest rates, only defined it independently, independently, unilaterally, and subsequently applied such unlawfully certain parameters in variable interest. What can we do to change that? We should finally put an end to it as a legislative body. How? So we finally prescribe the Consumer Credit Act methodology for calculating the parameters for changing interest rates. In order to properly determine this, it is necessary to return to the beginning of each contract, as a parameter, a fixed part of the interest rate and a period of change of interest rates should be determined at the beginning. Banks have done so on their own somewhere in the middle of a contractual relationship and therefore fixed parts of interest rates are now high, and variable parameters are very low. So those parts of the interest rate that are very low in the next year, two, three days could grow very much, which could seriously harm debtors. I came here for this among other things and for the purpose of trying to solve this problem through the Croatian Parliament. I hope to have your associates in it, because it is indeed time to end this illegal behaviour of Croatian banks. On the basis of these illegal contractual provisions, the bank has so far taken over 5 billion kunas of subscription, so over 5 billion kunas of interest have been charged in an illegal manner. We can't play court here, we're not a court. So we can't repay those overpaid interest to the debtors, but that's why we can end their illegal behavior, and we can only interrupt it by legal changes. In addition, we soon come to the agenda for amendments to the executive law. Amendments to the Implementing Law should certainly draw up one provision preventing the implementation of any property that is subject to an illegal mortgage. And it is unlawfully agreed if there are provisions in the contract on a variable interest rate that are changed by a decision of the bank and if, later, the bank has unlawfully set the parameters for the variable interest rate. So we can very simply protect over a hundred thousand debtors, legally, the banks can't stand up to it at all. Therefore, by amending the Implementing Law, we can prevent the performance of any property that is burdened with a contract that is unlawfully agreed. I therefore appeal to you to prevent, in the next period, the implementation of any such property from being implemented in the next period as well as to the debtors of RBA cooperatives because they have such credit agreements, and secondly, to prepare a methodology for determining the variable parts of the interest rate and fixed parts of the interest rate, and to end the illegal business of banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u49	I thank Representative Alaxic. The next club that volunteered for the break is the HDZ Representatives' Club, on their behalf, Ljubica Lukacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, here's what I'm gonna say earlier in the morning. I didn't expect to talk about the right person with the disability, but I'm really glad. The personal assistants the SDP colleague spoke of were not the problem I should say immediately. But it is interesting how colleagues and colleagues from the SDP today remembered to talk about when the problem had already been solved, not before it had not yet been known whether it would be solved. However, I must stress here that the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy is a colleague of Minister Nada Murganic's, the first day in office to solve the problem of personal assistants. All assistants to them around 500 in the Republic of Croatia who are financed through competitions will have assistants through the European Social Fund and beyond, so no one is left without personal assistants. On Monday, so last Monday, a symposium was held in Croatia organised by the Alliance of Persons with Disabilities community. Already then, people with disabilities at the symposium stressed that they would not tolerate not solving this problem, and this problem was solved in a way that was extorted funds that would bridge time until the end of the competition that would soon be called. Why he was not called, you could now guess, but you must know that there were technical problems that could not have been called for. The technical problems recently discussed at a meeting where people with disabilities said their opinions about whether an assistant could be a person with disabilities, whether an assistant could be more than 50 years old, were all issues that we had to agree on in order for the competition to be the one that would please people with disabilities. It's just amazing to believe, didn't you think Prime Minister Plenkovic wouldn't take care of people with disabilities? So HDZ is the only party that has had a disability program in this election. 500 people will not be left without an assistant that is the most important, and we will continue to solve the problem of people with disabilities in the best possible way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u51	I thank Ljubica Lukačić. And the next Club of Representatives is the Club of Representatives of the Most, their representative, Ines Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u52	Honorable MPs and MPs. And I would actually wonder why this question is now being raised when it is already clear that the problem will be solved and it is announced. Believe me, as president of the Assembly Committee on Health and Social Policy so far, I was well aware that I was in contact with many disabled associations daily and I knew about this problem and I contacted Minister Bernardica Juretic as well as the moment the new minister was appointed, I warned her of this problem which is burning and which must be solved. I'm going to share with you all the information I have, which is that 531 personal assistants will still be personal assistants to their current users, that at no time was that concerned. It was only about simplifying the methodology or solving after the competition so that all disabled people would not have to re-evaluate the unique body of art. And there is, in fact, the problem that existed, which is that according to that law passed by your former SDP coalition, it was prescribed that all those who have had a personal assistant should go back to the unique body of art and therefore had to simplify those conditions and that in some way all those with disabilities would not disappear could continue to use their personal assistant. So the procedure was simplified they no longer have to go to the single body of art but in agreement with the Ministry of Labour and Pensions decided that there would be an independent commission only for such cases which within the Ministry of Social Affairs and Policy, means the new ministry, demographics, social policies of young people and families will assess who will continue to have the right to personal assistant but within that commission will be approved new as planned, as the funds are now provided to bridge this period, a competition that will be announced by the end of the month and 400 new personal assistants will be provided for 400 new personal assistants, which is extremely important. The quality of a disabled person's life is clear to everyone. They need personal assistants, but we also need to think that they are very attached to their personal assistants and that we have people who are already educated to be with disabled people who are used to them but who work for 2,000 kuna. That's what I urge to try in due time and I will insist on it, that amount for them raises because he is truly one modest for what they provide to our disabled. So believe the promises that were only kind of explained that they would be provided by the way the new minister approached it gives hope that everything would be settled as planned. So the method is simplified, there will be and there will be funds provided for that independent commission that will be within the Ministry of Social Care and where only all those who have so far had the right and further allow 400 new assistants to benefit and to service the disabled who need them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u53	I thank the representatives of Stranja-Linić. We're going on the agenda after we're on our way to the clubs. On the agenda goes the draft law on additions...... You have no right to a replica. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1837	I'm looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1838	Well, you can't ask for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1839	I can. I have the right to take a break from the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1840	You can't after the exposure. So, at the beginning of the session, at the beginning of the session, the possibility of seeking a break is given. Once it's out with all the breaks and the agenda starts, you can't ask for a break. Since the next session will begin on Wednesday, you will have a chance Wednesday. The next item of the agenda is: - Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Local Elections, first reading, Proposal for a Law No. 8.; Proposing the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists pursuant to Articles 172 and 184. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You took the material to the benches. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Representative Miroslav Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1841	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Before you is the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on local elections in the first reading. As you can see, this supplement refers to the proposal to introduce a catalogue of criminal offences that makes it impossible to run for legally convicted persons for specific offences mentioned in the proposal. In this way, we want to intervene because, according to experience so far, we can conclude that certain candidates and individual political parties did not have the will to not run at all. We believe that this proposal, as did yesterday, is in line with the opinion of the European Court of Human Rights, which states that the court accepts that stricter conditions can be laid down when it comes to legal opportunity and candidateing, candidateing as well as the opinion of the Constitutional Court that it is generally in the public interest to avoid the active role of perpetrators of criminal offences in political decision-making. As a representative of the motionors, we have been faced with legitimate and reasoned remarks as to how, according to certain proposed provisions, we place a person in a difficult position in the local elections compared to the candidates at the Croatian Parliament. We accept these remarks and until the second reading we will comply with the provisions of this Act with the provisions of the Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament. We had questions why we did not introduce a preferential vote in this law in relation to the Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament which, according to the proposal, we extended it to 3 preferential votes. The HDZ and MOST in the negotiations that we have held have reached agreement on how it would be good to introduce a preferential vote in the Law on Local Elections. However, it is an extremely technically demanding job that the best models are sought for and which we do not want to propose until such models have been established. We are open to all suggestions and proposals from representatives and interested public on how to hold a preferential vote in local elections. Since this law also introduces the need to deliver the competent court's conviction that there is no reason to prohibit running until the second reading, we will determine whether it is the best model that is now proposed or whether we will transfer the verification obligation to some other body, electoral commission or something like that. And for this reason, as a representative of the motionors, I want to encourage debate on the subject today. The discussion in two readings and the time between the two discussions will be used to discuss all the proposals and to include those on which we agree with most MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1842	I thank Representative Simic. The first representative to report for the replica is Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1843	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Simic, since you have already indicated in your explanation that you will also consider the provisions and that between the two readings you will accept what you consider to be good and what we have objected to at the meetings of the committees in charge. I would still like to warn you once more as yesterday that article 30. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia states that a criminal conviction for serious and particularly unfair offences may result in losses or bans of acquisition for a specified period of time of certain rights to carry out certain tasks if the law requires the protection of the legal order. I am fairly certain that the provision under which the conditional penalties are tried cannot pass the test of proportionality and the principles of proportionality in the Constitutional Court as did not pass the provisions of the Law on election of legislators that we passed during our parliamentary majority. And therefore, I cannot take the impression, which is one of the members of your club yesterday directly confirmed that these amendments to the law were written for specific names and that if this law was adopted in such a form or similar form, this law would be called Lex Vlahusic, as is confirmed by your member of the club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1844	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1845	Dear colleague Bauk, I have no doubt that your club will also make a quality contribution to making a final draft of the law, because, as you said, you yourself have proposed in some previous mandates, the truth in other laws, but certain restrictions on running that depend on criminal acts for which persons are legally convicted. As far as the Constitution itself is concerned, I have already quoted the opinion of the Constitutional Court. In the discussions that follow, we will determine which catalogue of criminal offences are covered, and where we can be sure that the Constitutional Court will not intervene afterwards as it intervened in the last proposal. As far as probation terms are concerned, we already have suggestions from individual lawyers that the provisions on conditional penalties, i.e. that prison sentences should be imposed without provisions on conditional penalties because they do not exist as a rule, they are bound to prison sentences which have already been established. As for the reasons for the passing of these laws, here's a colleague who exhibited here yesterday, I was present, he also said that we are making such laws and such provisions what I am here and stressed because of a number of cases where we have candidates for the people who are here in our opinion, in the opinion of our club, and I don't think that a good part of the people will agree to this at all should not be candidates in the elections at all. I stress that this law does not apply because of one man, we have many more examples. But I would like to say that in future discussions, especially about this law, we do not look at and discuss it from the perspective of the people we are running or who are running for our political opponents, but that we really look at the provisions and see what we think is fair for such persons to run for office? Do we think that's okay, do we think that's correct? If we think it's fair, it's correct, it's fair, then we can't agree on this law. If on the other hand we think such a person should be prevented from running, then I believe we will have support.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1846	Thank you. Representative Tomislav Zhagar also reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1847	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Simic, you said you were open to all suggestions and suggestions. I'm sorry that this debate wasn't united with that debate we had yesterday because some things are reopening now. The truth of the debate is the good we did yesterday, and it's probably going to happen today, because it opens up a lot of questions. And I want to suggest one thing, namely yesterday when I spoke, when I had a debate about yesterday's Law on selecting representatives in the Croatian Parliament. At the time, I felt it was unfair that the electoral units should not have a residence on the constituency. However, in light of this debate and what is proposed today, I believe that this may need to be applied to the local level. Therefore, the provisions of the laws which make it impossible for people who do not have residence in a particular municipality, city or county to run for either the mayor, or for the mayor or even for the mayor should be abolished. Why would I think that? There are historical reasons. I'll give you an example, the Podravska Slatina municipality was once tied to a number of municipalities. It was the municipality of Nova Bukovica, Sopje, Čajjavica. These people were building and creating, because Slatina was once an economic center, creating and building these companies, and they were very attached to that center. The truth by privatizing this economy has been robbed through our banks, not foreign banks, and with the help of our tycoons. However, people are still tied to these centers today and a man who is today a prominent professor in Slatina who spends almost all day in Slatina, he goes to sleep in the surrounding place but why can't he run for Mayor Slatina as someone who lives there can anyway? And what does it mean to live in one space today if it may be harder in the city center to get to work than by means of transportation from nearby places? I think you need to think about it, and if you do, you'll have my support.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1848	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1849	Thank you, Comrade Sagar. As far as this proposal itself is concerned, as I have said, we are open to all reasoned proposals. And what I've talked to in the break with some other MPs who have advocated or to make the following, or to tighten the provisions and not allow candidates to find ways to run even though they live in that place or simply remove those provisions and allow candidates to run regardless of their residence. And here we have some kind of disagreement between the Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament and this law. Some kind of personality of mine, my personal attitude is close to what you've said so far. If the citizens want to choose someone who is a successful manager, for example. And they want to see him in their local community we need to give him a chance. However, I say that as my own personal opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1850	Thank you. The next representative to report for the replica is MP Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1851	Thank you, Mr. President. When you said you did not put into these changes the preferential votes at local level, I will repeat what I said on the Committee on Legislatives. You've explained this as a series of technical demanding jobs to be done. I believe that we have some experience with preferential votes and parliamentary elections already in the second round, for the European Parliament so that I do not find this argument convincing. Furthermore, why limit citizens to a democratic step and I see no reason why a preferential vote could not be put in place for local elections as well. Following that, in the last meeting of the HNS Club, he referred to the procedure. We have now re-emerged with the same bill in the legal procedure, and we have now re-committed the same bill to the legal procedure. I expect he'll be here as soon as possible to discuss this House. We have suggested a preferential vote to begin with to see exactly what will happen and what potentially expected problems might be. Namely, the State Election Commission is responsible for holding the elections. There are lower levels of county, city, municipal, there are election committees. All of these are people who hold all elections in the Republic of Croatia more or less. And possibly, if it takes any extra education, I don't think it should be any technical problem. I mean, maybe this is like a kind of challenge for you. The proverb of one who wants something will find a way, one who doesn't want a reason can point out a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1852	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1853	Dear fellow Batinic, related to the preferential vote. Like I said, we have the will to do it. Unfortunately, however, at this point, we did not think of the best way. They wouldn't want some provision of the law to bring the entire electoral system and the whole administration that's working on it in an impossible situation, especially our citizens. I'm talking to you from the perspective of the person who's from Osijek and I know as a voter that we face the fact in local elections that we vote for the city council and the county assembly. If we consider that we have only 10 lists, that we have more than 50 council members in the county assembly, in the city council of more than 30 council members, it is that we are going to bring citizens into the situation that they will have a list for example for the county with 500 and some names and of those 500 and some names they will need to choose one. Our problem is also the size of that sheet to say so. There are a lot of demanding things here for us, but here's what if we find a solution together, and we can include the DIP in that we'd be happy to go to the opening of preferential votes in local elections with my view that it should be more than one vote. Because given the number of candidates, one preferential vote in some county assembly or city council ultimately means very little. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1854	I thank Representative Simic. The next representative to report for the replica is representative Stjepan Kovač.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1855	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Šimić, I have a technical objection or a proposal in accordance with Article 2. The Act amending and supplementing the Law on the System of State Administration adopted by the Assembly at its first session of 14 October 2016 is required in the applicable Article 78. The Law on Local Elections shall be deleted by the Deputy Minister, Assistant Minister, and shall be signed by the State Secretary, and the same shall be done in Article 89. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1856	There's no response to the replica. The next representative to report is Nikola Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1857	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Simic, you have said well that MOST's intensity is not to make it impossible for one man to run for election and I didn't say it yesterday, but I said there are no such examples in politics, i.e. that the parties have enough moral responsibilities not to run for office and then there would be no need for such restrictions. However, what is interesting I would ask you to answer what you think about how here some colleagues from the SDP and the HNS asked for the resignation of certain ministers from the past government, for example, the Minister of Montenegro because he was registered at another address and thus damaged the city budget of the city of Zagreb, and now for much more difficult works, for example for abuse of positions and powers it is an act, meaning when it is committed by some mayor or mayor he has received confidence from citizens that he is working with his powers for the benefit of citizens, and he is using those powers for some other purposes. It is acceptable for them too, and it is not acceptable for them, for example, that a certain person was registered at the address means someone and has damaged the city budget. So he's unacceptable to them as a minister, and someone else is acceptable to them as mayor and chief of defense. You can comment on that a little bit. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1858	Thank you. Do you want an answer? Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1859	Thank you. Dear colleague of the bush, so I'll put it this way. As for statements, the views of other political parties and political colleagues, each of us has responsibility for our position and for what is said. The citizens are following us, estimating what we're saying. In addition, we have political competition, so here and now this exposure of yours has been going in this direction that will highlight the unbelief that happens in statements and assessments that depend on whether someone is a party colleague or not. All of which, of course, are ultimately evaluated by citizens in the elections, they will have the opportunity to say to both parliamentary and local ones what they think about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1860	Thank you. Would the committee's representatives like to take the floor? Yeah. Representative Drazen Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1861	Here I would like to say on behalf of the Legislative Committee that we had a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Local Elections at the third session of the Legislatives Committee. In short, counterpart Batinic had already transferred part of the debate to his replica. But I want to do it for a future debate that will bring out some of our basic views. We have supported the adoption of this law and the reference in particular to regular procedure, so the second reading with 7 votes for and 4 abstentions and we really want to help ourselves in the next reading that it is nomotechnically regulated as the Committee on Laws participates in all the laws and improves them nomotechnically. And it was noted in the debate that the catalogue of criminal offences which restricts the possibility of running for local elections in order not to get into trouble with that Constitutional Court decision of 24 September 2015, which the Proposer himself said would be led in preparation for the second reading. Also as many replicas have been shown and here we were unique where we said it would be good to see for the second reading and to prescribe the possibility of introducing here preferential voting, as already introduced in the draft law on additions to the Law on Elections for Croatian Parliament MPs. There was indeed one consensus in the debate, and I think we need to find these technical possibilities. Clearly, the board is in a position to come up with a quality solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1862	I would like to thank the committee's rapporteur. I'm opening a debate. The first club to report for participation in the debate is the SDSS Representatives' Club, on their behalf, representative Boris Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1863	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. We have a proposal for a law on local elections ahead of us and a very important topic to discuss. Much of this debate will be repeated because yesterday we had the Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament which contained if not the same but very similar solutions. The restriction of passive voting rights is a very sensitive thing in all countries not only with us. This is an important legal and political issue that is important for the development of democratic culture and for the development of social responsibility and society as individuals. It was in yesterday’s debate about the previous law that very often mentioned this law and the solutions contained in it and even suggestions. We also heard from the Legislative Committee that a preferential vote should be proposed here. In principle, I agree that it should also be proposed to include preferential voting, and I think that there are essentially no MPs who are against it, just to make sure that local elections are the most demanding elections in technical terms and the most complex because we have a large number of electoral participants, we have a lot of boxes and we have a very different way of counting votes since we choose at the same time and local level representative body, executive body and county level and minority representatives. In addition, good custom should be taken into account, therefore, a practice that is not a formal ban but is a practice that electoral legislation does not change a year before the elections are held. In its 2005 Declaration on the Stability of the Election System, the Venice Commission said it is necessary to be careful and to avoid amending election laws in general in the section relating to the fundamental elements of the electoral law. The fundamental elements of the electoral law, as they have stated, are rules relating to the conversion of votes to mandates, rules on membership in electoral bodies and the borders of election units, as well as rules on the distribution of seats among election units. Does this bill change? At this point, it doesn't change. So this law does not contain such a kind of change where they could say that the fundamental elements of the electoral law are substantially changed. If I were to install a preferential vote, I think it would still be about changing the fundamental elements of the electoral law. As regards the upcoming regular elections, the current law contains a provision that the municipal chief, mayor and mayor and their deputy have the right to elect a voter who, on the day of entry into force of the election decision, has at least six months of registered residence in the unit area of which the body is carried out. So a candidate who now has a regulated residence can run. If the elections will be, and the law set third Sundays in May that is May 21st next year, the government will call elections somewhere probably half April, so six months have practically expired. So anyone who thought to run had an ambition to run should have already solved the issue of their residence and in fact the election process has already begun in some way. As for the metrics, therefore the limitations of passive voting law, that is also a matter of political commitment. We've heard various thoughts, some even if the proposal is stricter, some of them are to make the proposal more liberal. I was working at the ministry just four years ago, so before the regular local elections in 2013, a journalist asked me, and why municipal chiefs don't have the conditions to be elected, if even some kind of reference in the municipality has to have a school that should be prescribed for the municipal chief. The fact today is that everyone has the right to choose and be chosen, so they have the right to vote. In principle, I feel that if a person is even without a school, if voters give such a person the trust of who I am to judge him and those voters. What should be commended by the Republic of Croatia in relation to the previous period and the previous local elections that we and we have already had for the last local elections, which we have also enabled people with deprived business ability to choose, to have an active right to vote and even a passive right to vote. So they can run, be elected, but indirectly they have a ban because they can't behave, so the people who are deprived of their business skills can't be held accountable for whom they would be elected. In relation to the proposed solution, I think you should be careful. It is important to say that any exclusion of any group of citizens must be in line with the fundamental purposes of the European Charter of Human Rights, which the Proposer also said yesterday that the reasons for exclusion must be based on the law, in this process and we are, that it must pursue a legitimate objective and that the principle of proportionality must be respected. And the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities of the Council of Europe took a position on this issue, we have representatives there, they have asked the Committee of Ministers to have all the states that contain such a restriction now proposed to reconsider any decision restricting passive voting rights be based on a judicial decision, to have its own time limit and to be proportionate to the severity of the conduct of a criminal offence. As far as Croatia is concerned, a decision by the Constitutional Court has been mentioned several times where the Constitutional Court abolished one part of the amendment of the law on election of MPs to the Croatian Parliament, explaining that this was not regulated by law in a way that was proportionate to the legitimate objective. This bill has a time limit which is good, I think it has a legitimate purpose. I think we can all agree that it is for all of us, but that it is also in the public interest to sort of remove persons with unworthy conduct of public duty. While I was at the Department of Administration, we took a stand in one case where a councilman was convicted of a criminal offence for more than a month, but his sentence was replaced by a general good. And he felt that he could come to council meetings, that he was not limited to that condemnation, physically, that he could come, that he could vote and that he could act his duty. This showed a lack of understanding, therefore, of the meaning of the law, of the purpose of the law and of such a legal solution. So it was not the purpose of the law, or a valid solution for this person to be prevented because it was in the law to physically come, but it was precisely a message that this person was not worthy of such a duty. However, although I support the direction of this law, I must say on my own personal behalf and on behalf of the club that I am concerned with part of this test of proportionality, is it satisfied with the principle of proportionality if we say that persons, all persons who are convicted of any unconditional sentence of imprisonment for any act must be limited... Is the solution where the introduction is and the solution is therefore to be a conditional conviction just as restrictive, so I'm not quite sure that it would satisfy the principle of proportionality, so I had to show my doubts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Although I say, in principle, I support the direction of this law, I think it's good that we talk about this, that in some way, as I said, let's remove from the political decision-making of a person who is truly unworthy to act as such. In the end, I'd like to say one thing about the technical part, we have 9.5 thousand people who were elected in the local elections. In fact, a little less than 9.5 thousand people who have been selected for various duties at local level. In 2013, there were 56 thousand 558 candidates for all functions. So 56 thousand 558 candidates. So it would take so many convictions to get from courts that people could actually be candidates. This may be a technical problem, so it would be good to ask the government and the Justice Department if it would be a burden on the system. Ideally, we would have the possibility, not only of candidates, but of all of us to obtain such assurance through the E-Citizen system, because I think that would actually make it easier for both courts and candidates and for all the other citizens who need that belief. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1864	I'd like to thank the representative. The first representative to report for the replica is representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1865	Dear President, I agree with Mr Milosevic's statement that this is a very, very, very serious issue and that any incurring to the democratic process, i.e. the right of people to run, would actually lead to the collapse of basic democratic principles. The more we live in a society that means HDZ proposes this law. So when HDZ proposes a law to prohibit running for those who are convicted of abuse of office and authority, then man must ask himself what is the intention of the law. Surely they do not intend to throw themselves out of the election race by this law, but is in fact the motive of the law to get rid of its political competition. So don't have an illusion and be naive about it. I also point out once again that the meaning of the proposed law here is the elimination of Andra Vlahusic from Dubrovnik from the political race. And I don't think it's right for a certain article of the law to be done just to make a mistake for one individual. Because if these principles were guided then there could be new amendments to the law tomorrow and there could be a lot of things put into that law and political competition could be eliminated in one way, to say so in a non-democratic way, not through choice and freedom of choice of citizens, but in fact by processes whose goal is not actually to eliminate crime from the political system but rather something else entirely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1866	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1867	I thank Mr. Pernar for agreeing with my presentation. I would just like to say so, as I did and in my presentation, I mean, it's not good, and I'm sure we all agree that there's no need to uphold the law that's written for someone. So here we are looking for a systematic solution that would raise the level of democratic culture in the Republic of Croatia, and the practice has so far shown that every law written by ad-hominem so it didn't go well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1868	Thank you. The next representative to report for the replica is representative Maro Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1869	Dear fellow Milosevic, first of all, I would like to thank you for a professional debate that you have held. I would just like to say that, in fact, in almost all European countries other than the two European countries, there is a restriction on candidateing within the electoral legislation. Of course, it moves depending on the country's levels, on the levels of corruption and crime in those countries. So I can say that those countries like Croatia whose corruption and crime are deeply rooted in the system have the strictest electoral legislation in terms of the ban on running, so they have set such criteria that no person can run for anything that has any rightful verdicts. Of course, we do not advocate such solutions, which is why we have opened a wide public debate. And I agree with you when you talk about the catalogue of criminal acts that, depending on a particular crime, we can't even set the criteria in the same way as the ban on running. We should certainly take care of that. I repeat again once again, and this is what Mr. Grmoja said that this law was certainly not adopted for one man but for restoring the confidence of Croatian citizens in an electoral system that has been completely violated.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1870	The next representative to report for the replica is Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1871	Dear colleague, you said a good sentence, you should be careful about changing the law a year before the election. And I fully agree with you here because we witnessed such an experiment. So the law that regulated the direct selection of mayors and which was implemented in 2009 was ideal for me in this regard. After that, the SDP's authority changed the law and under this new law, we had in Croatia only one year of countless crises throughout Croatia and repeated elections for mayors who were elected directly under the 2009 law. What's this about? So by amending the law and in order to replace only one man here in Zagreb and allow municipal city councils to challenge the crisis and re-election by not voting the budget. They generally failed in their intentions, but they did huge damage to cities and municipalities, which practically a year without budget with some commissioners, made it impossible for the directly elected mayor to carry out projects he had promised in the direct elections to his citizens. I warmly hope that in these amendments of this law here, and I ask that the proposings be corrected. As far as the preferential vote is concerned, if we have allowed citizens to vote favourably for this House, if we are now talking about 3 preferential votes, I see no reason why this would not be possible in cities and municipalities, regardless of what is a little larger, since that is where the county leaders are elected, so let the votes be counted and two days if necessary, but in any case equal rights should be given to citizens and at local level. And I don't agree with you in that section relating to the residence for up to six months because you really need to live in that area the one who's running to be honored... by a councilman in the city council.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1872	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1873	Dear colleague, what you've been saying, these solutions that have led to political crises in those municipalities, cities, counties where there have been cohabitations are actually subject to the regulation of the Law on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government. True, at the end of 2012, several months before the regular local elections, this current Law on Local Elections was changed, but in its own sense it had actually united two of the existing laws and had not changed these basic settings, therefore the elements of the electoral system. So there has been no change that could question the legality of holding the elections in 2013. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1874	Thank you, counsel. The next representative to report for the replica is Representative Blaženko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1875	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Representative Milosevic, I really agree with the good part of your debate, but we should bear in mind that here is representative Klaric in one piece, what I wanted to say, but I will also tell you that and I know that this is this other law but is directly related to the local administration, i.e. the electoral process within a certain local administration. And basically after that, we had problems inside local administrations when the budget was going down, and also in the renewed process, so I watched, analyzed around over 75% of new ones, and in the new re-elections, the same people got citizens' trust from their local administration. What, then, was such a law needed and why create a problem at the local administration? But here I wanted to tell each other, and this is also that I believe that this bill put in place here is almost, and in one article is the intensity of the promoter to really change the electoral law for local and regional administration which I absolutely support and absolutely need. I don't just limit myself to this one article, it's an initial capsule for us to build something quality even if it lasts for a year and two. It is true, Mr Milosevic, that the de facto election process for the local elections in 2017 has already been initiated by the foundation of the active law. It was launched in seven days, 14th somewhere calendar-viewed around 15.10. But that's why we have time to prepare him very well and make these anomalies that are in the existing law correct themselves. And on the other hand, the Ministry of Administration for which, in which you have worked for a very long time, must make certain preconditions in the territorial reconstruction of certain local administrations, i.e. the adoption of quality solutions of border areas where this is not the case now and where citizens are indeed led astray by the local community at all to vote for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1876	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1877	Dear fellow Boban, I agree with you that any solution to the existing Law on Local Elections and the Law on Local Regional Self-Government should be thoroughly analysed and improved if we consider that the applicable legal solutions are not good. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1878	Thank you. The next representative to report for the replica is a representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1879	Dear President, fellow Milosevic. I also commend your reasoned exposure. You said that the intensity is that people who have committed certain crimes is inappropriate, means for the conduct of an honorable and responsible duty of the local mayor or mayor, but that the principle of proportionality should be kept in mind and that they should be seen for what crimes people would eliminate from the election race. If this law were written for one person then we wouldn't be discussing this catalogue here, but would be determined by one category that they would put in the catalog and then that law would be intended for that person. We are here discussing what crimes are to be included in laws that are absolutely morally inadmissible in order for someone to act in such an honorable and responsible capacity. So I'm asking you here if you think that crimes, for example, are abuse of position and authority, taking bribes, corruption, are those crimes that should be eliminated from the election race. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1880	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1881	Dear comrade Grmoya, thank you for commending my presentation. As you heard in my presentation, I didn't mention anyone, so it's a sex for someone, an ad-homine written, that there's a catalog. I have merely expressed my professional doubts as to whether the principle of proportionality is satisfied, and I agree that the crimes that you have brought here now make them a person who has committed them unworthy of the conduct of public duty.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1882	Thank you. Andrija Mikulic's next representative came forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1883	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, if we do not repeat that I agree with a large part of the discussion from my fellow MPs. But if one of the consequences of this law will be to protect the dignity of members of the representative bodies of the units both local, both regional and regional self-government, and municipal mayors, mayors and mayors, deputy and increased voter confidence in the representative executive body, then we have achieved the goal, then we in the Republic of Croatia would probably no longer have mayors who have powerful verdicts, and the mayors are. That's what this is about. And I don't see any reason why this could be a good example. Through the debate, we will see to the end what else can possibly change. So it's a matter of work transparency. Why don't we go by that principle of categorization and who's wrong should answer. Well, that's normal, that's normal everywhere. Not for the act, for the word "wrong." Everyone will be responsible for what he didn't say or what he said isn't true. But I would expand, we were in one ministry where there were official courts inside you, so we'll come up for a moment of conversation when in the administration systems, when someone was supposed to be prosecuted and went to the official court of ten cases at 9:00 you returned to work. I'm asking you what kind of message that was? She wasn't good. So I will always stand up for not once but two hands for transparency, openness, and always answer for the one who made the mistake.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1884	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1885	Dear fellow MP Mikulić, as he said in his statement that we all agree that we should discuss this, that we should find the measure that is best that the people we consider unworthy of our duties are eliminated in some way from the political match. I didn't say that in my presentation, and now I'm going to use it in response to the replica. There was one case, I'm not gonna name a city, where a mayor was arrested and they called the Department of Administration of Me from USKOK and they said a fellow mayor was arrested and we need to know that fact. We shouldn't have known that fact, but they informed us. Mr. Mayor has done me with honor. He ended up in custody, resigned immediately, and elections were called. The fact is, on these repeated early elections, there was only one candidate. He was the only candidate, and he was re-elected, unfortunately for him and for him, but also for that city, he ended up in custody for another crime in about a month. I won't go any further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1886	Thank you, counsel. The next club that reported for participation in the debate is the SDP Representatives' Club and, on their behalf, Damir Mateljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1887	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We've been discussing so-called legal proposals for a few days now. guarantees and what most of us here can agree that these legal proposals are in principle good, well-intentioned. However, since these legal proposals are actually called guarantees, they have no reform weight, they have no reform potential, and therefore, with their critical mass, they cannot make any dramatic good positive twist for the area to which these laws apply. So the same thing that can be applied to the legal proposals that we have so far, can be applied to this legislative proposal that is before us today. No one in the SDP Club of Representatives or myself who is the head of local self-government has anything to do with the catalogue of criminal acts that prevents the running of mayors, mayors or mayors, councils of city, municipal councils, county parliaments from spreading this catalogue especially in that section concerning those acts relating to corruption, bribes, which primarily relate to the part that has a significant impact on local self-government management, we have no problems with that. So in principle, in the façade this law looks good, but obviously like the other law and this law did it because of desire, due to too much speed, because of the non-implementation of public debate this law is also defeated in its content and there are many shortcomings, and therefore this law is probably put on a second reading. So let's take the turn. So if we are restricting the fundamental constitutional democratic right, which is the right to be elected, then the least caution that we have is the caution to engage and to carry out public debates first and professional public debates, but also public debates in units of local self-government that are certainly interested in the law that concerns them. The way this law was prepared led to a whole series of illogicalities. One of these is, which has been warned by my colleagues before, which was also warned by the parent board, which is that Article 1 of this law is not in line with the article of the law we discussed yesterday, which is about the election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, and that the restrictions at local or local level are more difficult than they are for selecting representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Furthermore, yesterday I think that this very plastic example has already been consummated, but it is good to quote it again, for example, if you are involved or if you are convicted of committing a traffic violation in which participants have suffered minor injuries, you cannot then run for municipal chief. However, if you participate in the abduction of a person and that person ends up with a fatal consequence, you can run. So it's also one of the illogicalities that isn't common sense. In this legal framework, they are also not in this legislative proposal, therefore, and this catalogue does not take into account the crimes committed abroad, and I believe that bribery and corruption, or conviction for bribery and corruption, is, for example, the same weight in Slovenia as in Croatia. So the whole series of irregularities that this legislative proposal makes such that it must go to second reading and such a legal proposal will indeed not democratisation our society, especially at local level. The democraticization of society is not exclusively about laws and decrees, but if we want to democratisation society, then this debate here is part of the democratisation of Croatian society. We at the SDP club also wanted to ask the promoter where the preferential vote at local level was lost. The promoter also gave an explanation, but that doesn't seem too much to me because the explanation as an argument is, we didn't have enough time, we didn't want to propose a law that wouldn't hold water. But it's a law like this. Which is why you haven't considered everything together much longer and suggested a much better law than this one. I don't know if it's given up that cold-drive downturn or the salary from 20% to 15% in local self-government? If you gave up on it, it's good because it was really bad. And finally, this bill of law will not prevent political staffing in municipalities and cities from doing anything. This bill, what's most important, is nothing, but nothing will improve the quality of municipalities and cities, and that should be every sense of the Law on Local Self-Government. I am therefore surprised that the legislators of this law did not invest that energy in something that local self-government needs, which is a complete reform of local self-government. And when you collect energy and will to amend that law, believe that you will have quality partners at the SDP club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1888	I'd like to thank the representative. The first representative to report for the replica is representative Maro Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1889	Dear fellow MP, and I thank you for discussing our bill. First of all, I would like to say that it is not true that there will be no public debate, so the public debate practically starts from today and will last for the next almost 30 days on this bill. I would also like to ask you when you have instructed criminal acts as a ban or restriction in running for office, so I ask you whether you consider an act of abuse of office and authority by a mayor who illegally took in funds from the budget of an institution that is headed by a particularly uncommon criminal act. Also, as regards the harmonisation of the catalogue of criminal offences between the two laws that we are discussing these two days, which is the Law on selecting representatives in the Croatian Parliament and the Law on Local Elections, of course we are prepared for such harmonisations. We have laid down a somewhat stricter sanctions in the Law on Local Elections because we believe that the mayors, mayors and mayors of public money managers and that their powers on this matter are more significant than the powers of the parliamentary representative and that they are much more exposed to such criminal acts. But, of course, we are prepared through the debate to comply with these provisions of these two laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1890	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1891	Thank you. I'll do it again. So we in the SDP have absolutely no problems, therefore, that the catalogue of criminal acts for non-candidation on local self-government extends to all those acts relating to corruption, to trade in interest, to trade in actually power and politics. I have absolutely no problem with that. As many times as it takes to do it again, so here we are, here as far as the SDP club is concerned, you have partners. And so what I was going to say, what I said in the debate, it seems to me, in fact, that this legal proposal is too quick, so you just brought it in and didn't think too much about it. That's why he's as inappropriate as he is. And of course, later through public debate this proposal, this law will become more quality, but even such a better law will not greatly affect the work of local self-government, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1892	Thank you. The next representative to report for the replica is Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1893	You told your colleague that this proposal would not democratisation and help local self-government, I would disagree. And I thank you for the debate of the democratic one and for improving this very intensity of this proposal. Of course this is the first reading and that all of your suggestions that you made on behalf of the club that we're going to look at and there's going to be time to fit in, means in this proposal if there's a major list of criminal offences possible. You said it was a preferential vote. I absolutely agree, if there are any technical conditions, yes, because we know that when the mayors and commissioners are elected to choose regional self-government at the same time. The mayoral leaders that we have at this point mean choosing for the county assembly, for the city council, for the municipal council. Therefore, if there are technical conditions, I absolutely agree with this proposal of yours to include that part, but it also means to complete this second part, which is the operational part, the technical part on the ground. We know that local self-government is very important, that these are communal problems, you know that as mayor. Most of the time, there's a lot more that should be done and what's the intensity of this law. We also have a local self-government that has been forgotten, essentially the first line, local committees and wheels, the first line of people dealing with municipal problems of citizens in their places. So these local boards have absolutely no authority or very small powers in particular in individual units. So this one, this is just an intensities, this reform through the Ministry of Administration, of course, needs to go into a much more serious and larger change of everything about the Law on Local Self-Government and Elections, but your proposals are positive and I see that the intensity is good and they have democratisationd this debate in a very positive direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1894	Thank you for the reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1895	Thank you. Col. Bulj, yes, of course it is visible not only to us who work in local self-government but also to the Croatian public that this current system of local self-government has become a brake of state development rather than what should be a locomotive. X is why it's like that. And to understand these reasons, to turn those reasons into... The policy of local self-government is therefore essential that we all discuss this reform together. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it is necessary that we make a consensus on this reform because it is the only way that such a reform can be quality, and of course we expect support from both your MOST colleague and all other colleagues who are involved and who live on local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1896	The next representative to report for the replica is representative Mato Frankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1897	Dear President, dear fellow Matteljan, I would first of all like to express my satisfaction because in your own debate, you said it was a positive law. First of all, I have to say, it is unfortunate that today we have to discuss the law of this kind and even sadder to hear that this law is already called Lex Vlahusic. It is not the law of lex Vlahusic, however, unfortunately we in the Republic of Croatia have only one legally convicted mayor for a serious crime, and this is Mr Andro Vlahusic, so I believe that this is why my colleague Bauku came to mind. But what's important is to point out that you today have a law in force when an employee of the city's administration is convicted of a serious crime, he has to get fired, you know that. But imagine a situation where a powerful and accused mayor is fired for a serious crime by an employee who has been convicted for the same serious crime, this one leaves and stays. I think that's why it's more about morality here. And here, I hope that in the future, the SDP will really take care of who it supports in running for any function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1898	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1899	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear colleague, I didn't say this law was positive. I said this law has a positive, well-intentioned intensity, but it's dysfunctional. And the point of the law is to be unwitting, but the meaning of the law is to be functional. As for Dubrovnik, colleagues of Vlahusic, I will leave it to you voters in Dubrovnik because they chose him. And what I can say, I can speak for the SDP. So there's no SDP I'm going to repeat again no problems, so the catalogue of criminal acts is spreading to all those acts relating to bribery and corruption. And we're looking after them very well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1900	Thank you, counsel. The next representative to report for the replica is representative Predrag Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1901	Thank you very much. My colleague Matteljan, often in his presentation, uses an expression of illogicality, so I would add in this replica another illogicality without entering this part for whom, for whom and for which it is proposed to amend this law which, in principle, of course, we support. In fact, you are often in terms, and all exhibitors have used terms of crime, abuse of power, bribery, corruption, and all these terms are inexplicably adjudicating to the description of one of our parties, so I would suggest that if one whole solution is being done, that from now on you are talking about the banning of running for an honorable individual in the honorable party. So what do we do, how do we prevent or what do we do when the honorable individuals or the wicked run for the wicked party? I suggest that this could be called a single hit by more flies, to predict in this law when we're already making it to make one whole solution so that we can solve that part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1902	The next representative to answer the word is Dragica Roscic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1903	I thank the president and the exhibitor. So by not entering the scope of the criminal catalogues listed in the law, I would just like to point out why it is important to adopt laws like this hastily and how such laws can increase the quality of life in the local environments. Namely, we face challenges, the European Commission's programmes for funding from the EU funds have been approved. Local self-government should be the bearer of various projects and the fact is that if someone is convicted of being crossed over to be the bearer. If the person responsible is convicted, for example One unit of local self-government can get in trouble if it wants to report a kindergarten project. And that really means endangering the quality of local self-government. So I would just like to stress that these laws should be passed in haste to influence them, the consequences of applying this law to the quality of life units in local self-government units. And that I hope that we will all have constructive suggestions to make this law as best and quality as possible, but of course it will be passed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1904	The next representative to report for the replica is a representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1905	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Representative Matja, I thank you for one constructive debate. We called for dialogue, we didn't offer any ready-made solutions. So today, as counterpart Kristic said, a public debate begins over this, I was also contacted because you did not mention the work of abuse of position and authority but here you have already answered fellow Kristic. It would also be strange for me if you of the SDP were against it in view of what your colleague, Peja Grbin, said when the Constitutional Court meant to have knocked down that decision where he said he was particularly disappointed that this was brought down by persons convicted of the crime of abuse of office and authority. He said then, here I will quote him "The Constitutional Court has said that we must deny running for certain persons, let's say those who have killed, those who have tortured, those who have committed war crimes, but we must not prohibit running for those who have robbed Croatia." Here I would say a little comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1906	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1907	Well, I have nothing to say but agree with you here. Because I'm deeply convinced, which is why I'm in politics, so politics is primarily an honorable job that we don't do for ourselves, but for those people who chose us. Unfortunately, it's a lot of times in this home and this is the flossula that we say this way without thinking about it a lot. But that's what it's all about. We are primarily responsible to our citizens, and our citizens who have chosen us expect us to be fair, to be honorable to each and every one of us in his work and his work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1908	Thank you. I would temporarily stop the debate so that we can move to a vote on the amendment law and the addition of the Law on Elections to the Croatian Parliament, first reading, P.Z.BR.11. It is proposed by the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1909	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 12.22 HOURS]] On behalf of the HDS-HSLS Club, the honourable representative Branko Hrg will take the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1910	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am pleased that this law has come to debate and I see very much that the end of this first working week is so that exhaustion is universally present among parliamentary representatives. And just this law and that law yesterday, the amendments to the law should actually go in the direction of returning and restoring confidence in people who deal with politics because the job of politicians is a job on a special increase and it is very important how citizens experience it. And we know that lately in Croatia it's not much of a job to talk about. As I was talking yesterday about amendments to the Law on the Selection of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, I say today on behalf of our club on behalf of the HDS and HSLS Club that we support this initiative, this proposal to amend the law, we also support its placing in two readings, therefore in a regular procedure because we believe that there are still very, very many things that should be installed now and that should take advantage of the opportunity for the law to improve. In politics it's always about political will, we can talk about whether something is feasible, not feasible, whether it can be installed, whether it cannot be installed, but if there is a political will in the end, then everything is almost possible. And I think that this change of law in this direction would certainly motivate citizens to go out more because, as the parliamentary elections are relatively small, and in the local elections we know that it is even less, that there is growing disinterest and that there are a number of problems in that part of voter motivation. Almost everyone who has talked about the amendments to this bill on this proposal has been instructed that there is no reason not to introduce a preferential vote and a local level if we already propose or have already been introduced for a national one, three preferential votes are now being proposed, so I really don't see the same reason why there is no preferential vote for the local level either. And there are no arguments that this is something that is very difficult to implement because here we have an example of this practice in the neighborhood, so in BiH, a few cycles have been held and everything flows without any problems in that part. Therefore, I am absolutely in favour of introducing a preferential vote. With regard to that catalogue of criminal acts, it is certain that it should be well resolved, that it is necessary to take a good look at what it is that people should not run for office and I absolutely support it and that I support it to really limit the running for those who have wronged the law, who have committed certain crimes, who are legally and convicted of it. But what I was saying yesterday, there's a policy that's still a little different interest something that's harder and stronger than any other business we're dealing with. Because if you steal something you always get an epithet, you always get that one mark that you're a thief, and being a thief in politics is something special because in that case, in the end, everyone who's in politics gets that sign, and then they're all generalized in one good part, and we're interested in the fact that this one stain from the face of people who are dealing with politics, and they want to do their job fairly move away. So, as far as I'm concerned, I'd be in favor of someone who's been stealing something, who's legally convicted of stealing to ban him from running for any kind of duty in political action. It's the same story for those who've made malfeasances with budgets. So if someone did something with the budget, did some kind of criminal act, convicted and served his sentence, so who says that in the next period, as soon as he was elected, he won't do it again? I think that should absolutely prevent, ban, even prevent something like that from happening. I also have to say that in this part of the work that we do locally, and I've been acting as mayor of the town of Križevci for a long time, five times I've been elected by different laws, and I've had all kinds of experiences. I think that many of the things that we now want to prevent by passing this law could be prevented from happening at the very beginning, when the Ministry of Administration, and even the Ministry of Finance, would be a little bit better able to monitor what is happening and intervene. So let's say that when a chief plans a budget of 35 million kuna, and the original budget has a million kunas, it's seen in the Ministry of Finance that something is wrong, unless there's a really natural side so well-complicated that it's going to have real income. But if this is a natural side of imagination then the ministry can react and immediately stop some negative consequences that later come as well as the ministry of administration. It's bad messages when local officials have debts to the state, whether personally as a natural person, whether as the majority owner of a company, what kind of message is for citizens. Let's be sure the citizens don't know about everyone's debt and anyone who works. People don't even care. A good part of people don't even watch it, they hear it in the bar, they think it's good, now it's a campaign, someone spits it out, and then it turns out that way. But I think that people who owe a state whose companies, whose majority owners are debt to the local self-government, should give confirmation that they have nothing to run for office at all. For me it's perfectly normal, it's like going looking for a job in a company, at a company, and you owe it to that firm, you can get a job, you can do that job to compensate for the debt eventually, to do it, but this way, it doesn't make any sense to me. Some might say it's not in accordance with the Constitution, maybe like this, I say again, it's all a matter of political will, all of which can certainly be arranged if we want to. But that doesn't make any sense. And it is even less logical for such local officials to come to the guests by ministers who are competent to actually follow these things and thus give them support. I speak from practice, I speak from practice. So what kind of messages are we sending? Are these messages we expect a positive effect from citizens to think positively about people who deal with politics. I'm sure they didn't. If we could stop this here, then the ministers couldn't come to such commissioners eventually and climb on horseback and ride there with them, there on the hills along the subkalic mountain from where I came from. So in that part, I think that until the second reading, we should consider it carefully, work it out. And another very important thing. The association of cities, associations of municipalities and associations of the county are therefore the institutions with which we need to thoroughly analyse this law, these changes, take their experiences, take their proposals, and then put all of this together in accordance with the law, and when we bring it together, we put it together, I am convinced that it will be to the general satisfaction of all of us and believe that one part of the citizens, that it will be one shift for the better. Here, as far as our club is concerned, we will support this bill's proposal in the first reading with these proposals that we make to really take a good look at it one more time, and to literally make one purification to make it impossible for those who have repented, who have dirtyed themselves, who have all of us as politicians, whether local and state-run dirts simply to wash their cheeks together and to be more positive and cleaner all together and to make the climate in society better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1911	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas. The first is that of distinguished representative Marko Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1912	Thank you. You mentioned in the statement that political will is the basis of all good laws, I agree with you and especially in the light of our will as a pursuit of good. However, it seems to me that these discussions have given us the opportunity to learn about the dimensions of a perverse will that has grown into political sadism. What do I mean? On those statements that go in the direction of pointing out that this law is motivated by calculating with some persons, but perverted will is also if it is motivated to protect some persons. I don't see any big differences between you making laws that you're going to break down with but that you refuse to pass the law because you want to protect one of your own. What I can commend in your presentation is that we have come to the level to observe that legal minimisity and maximization. So this current law is minimized. This one is now some kind of anti-corruption expansion. And in this public debate, we have the opportunity to make this law materially enriched so that we feel political corruption among our citizens, and I think this law is going in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1913	Thank you. The esteemed representative Branko Hrg will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1914	Thank you very much, dear fellow, I absolutely agree with you and I am convinced that this law does not go to any individual person. If there's an individual who thinks this law and these discussions are going after that person, so let him answer, let him say why you're stalking me. Do you know what I'm going to tell you? In this assembly, I know some people who can be very well seen in our debates, in this assembly that have sinned and on the Budget Law, have powerful judgments. I'm not even sure if that trial deadline is up and they're not enough. They're having a break-in of rooms the other day, forced entry into other people's rooms, and that's where people like that sit in the assembly room. I don't want to be a part of them. I want a clean cheek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1915	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative, Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1916	Thank you, Vice President. So, you're in favour of people who are convicted of corrupt acts being unable to run. And I gradually agree with that, and that's what the SDP club agrees with, that's what we've heard. I'm asking you something else now, what about the parties? We in the Croatian political space have one party, I will not name it that was illegally convicted of corruption. The Supreme Court abolished that inadmissible verdict and returned to rejuvenation. The party today has the status of a confirmed charge of corruption. I'm not going to reevaluate what judgment will ultimately be vested in power, but let's assume the theories are designed to be judgmental. We here today prohibit individuals from running, as you think about banning parties if they are legally convicted of corrupt acts to participate in election processes. If this is already a matter of systematic solutions, I call on MOST to take this into account until the final draft of the law. I invite you to take care of whether she has a confirmed indictment or not when you think people believe you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1917	The esteemed representative Branko Hrg will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1918	Dear fellow Stazic, you yourself said there is no such verdict by the power of power, and then we can't talk about it now, we can't prejudge anything in advance. You're telling me I see the same list I'm going to. And I'll tell you like this and you should've looked who's going to your list. I was surprised you didn't look at it. I must admit, I've been surprised by that, but it's good to agree that cleanliness should be introduced into politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1919	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1920	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Hrg, I agree with you when you were talking about there is no reason why preferential voices should be introduced to the local level. I think that would be good and there's no reason to distinguish between the state-level elections and the local elections. You also said you've been through five electoral processes for local elections and various legal systems. Now the legal system we have for the local level is practically much more complex than the one we have at this point for the national level. So, for the local level, we choose special mayors and we choose the city councils, or at the county level, they are congregations and mayors. Same in the municipalities. Maybe this is the right moment since this system has now been in use twice to analyze whether we need a system that is much more complex for a local level than we have for a national level. So let's do that when we often talk about making savings at local level, I don't think this system often brings us extra costs and sometimes unnecessary local elections because those elected directly for executive power can't agree with those chosen for legislative authority at local level. Maybe the right time when we're talking about the Law on Local Elections is to make a detailed analysis and compare those systems, and when we've only had a choice for councils and assemblies and councils and the assembly has chosen mayors, mayors and mayors with this system that we now have for two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1921	Thank you. The esteemed representative Branko Hrg will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1922	Thank you very much, dear fellow Totgergeli. Although I absolutely agree, that's why I said in my debate that it is very important and important to include associations of cities, municipalities and counties because there is already a whole series of analysis right here in this direction and I think it can be contributed to just one complete, complete consideration. The fact is, you mentioned that at local level we already have one part of the preferential vote. So where you vote for executive this function there is a practical preferential vote. So there's no reason not to introduce it here either, but surely it's good to analyze everything and see how and in other parts to improve the law when we're already going to change it. We know that these are laws that are very difficult to change and that there are interests of course of every group, everyone looks at what suits him best and what is normal, legitimate, logical, and then it's hard to agree. So the more there's a good analysis, the better you look at the thing where there were mistakes, where there was something easier we'll pass a better law. I think that's for all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1923	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Mare Kristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1924	Dear colleague Hrg, I thank you for a very constructive discussion this time too. I wanted to draw your attention to a part of your debate when you were talking about the need to deny some individuals the permanent right to behave in public functions. It would only then, unfortunately, be constitutional, unconstitutional, though I share an opinion with you. Therefore, each type of ban must first and foremost apply to the deadlines or duration of the rulings and the rehabilitation deadlines. So it can't take longer than that period. Here's my little commentary. Of course, as far as the catalogue itself is concerned, we need to determine through this period of public debate what are the crimes that are ultimately to be found in the catalogue itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1925	Thank you. The esteemed representative Branko Hrg will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1926	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Well, I'm aware of that, that's what I said, which is why I said we should reanalyze well and see if we can really comb everything that's possible to send as good a message to the citizens as possible. So I look at it that way. Send as good a message to the citizens that we are practically starting this mandate with a message that we want to bring as much purity into politics as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1927	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1928	I would agree with you on the preferential vote. Of course, that would be the best thing that could happen, but I will repeat again that it is a fundamental amendment to the law and that should be pursued and done because it is the greatest expression of democracy when our fellow citizens can vote locally for who will represent them either in the executive authority or in the city councils or in the county councils. As far as the crime catalogue itself is concerned, of course, that's what needs to be done, all the suggestions are welcome, and so is yours. I think we should stick to it, meaning the framework of the law, but everything that goes towards a better attitude between politicians and peoples, looking at politics and politicians. So that's something that's good and I think this debate of yours has been very focused on it. We at the Ministry of Administration should have gone as you said in the full amendment of all these laws and both territorial and local speaking, and mostly given to the minimum base committees, i.e. local committees and wheels that are a very significant municipal part of the needs of our fellow citizens solutions. Because with this law so far, it's a very bad solution, because we have elections for local committees that also costs, and in fact these people don't have any authority except that they have to be similar in order to make something happen to those local self-government political leaders in order to achieve any, communal resolution in their places. So really the Department of Administration needs to go, but this law as well as your debate is just an initiative towards a better one, means nothing backwards, but in advance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1929	Thank you. The esteemed representative Branko Hrg will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1930	I don't think it's a problem to introduce that preferential voice no matter what the major change is, but I think it can be done and it's not that difficult, especially when we already have something like that at local and national level. You mentioned two more things well and warned them, so it's local self-government. And there should be the same, although it is defined by the Law on Local Regional Self-Government, but elections are being held under this law that we are now discussing. The powers and everything else that's out there are pretty loosely defined, or almost by no means. And one more thing is very important, that we should generally see that it is defined by maybe even the law, that local self-government elections are conducted in parallel with local self-government elections. You have a situation to get a little voter out of your local level anyway, about 40% and then you get about 5.6% to 15% depending on what middle it is. But it's certain that at local level people know each other more. Yesterday there was a speech about who was so recognizable. So local people are more recognizable. They come from their midst, and if they vote preferentially, they can certainly motivate more people to go to the polls and round up one of these recognizable people. So I'm absolutely thinking that way. I say anything with the aim of sending a good, positive message. That is why I welcome this proposal to amend the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1931	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mark Vesligai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1932	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's your presentation, Mr. Hrg. I'll make two points here. You mentioned it first, and you actually added some other stuff in there. I will also add what is wrong with the lack of the property of local officials in relation to the start of the mandate and the end of the term of office. I'm sure there's something to discuss and think about. Another thing I'd like to say and which I'd like to elaborate a little bit more is actually on several occasions you mentioned proposals from the association of cities, associations of municipalities, associations of counties. But what's actually going to happen to us. It will happen to us that one of the first concrete proposals that, that is, the law that we are going to pass here and which citizens will feel is likely to be a tax on a company that will take 120 million kuna to local units. Of course, it will be explained that we need to relieve the economy, we need to help entrepreneurs, and I absolutely agree with that. However, do we have concrete measures to compensate for? In particular, I come from the city of Pregrada. I'm the mayor there. We have 260 km of unclassified roads, less than 100 km of paved roads. This year we had to be in charge of two and a half million kunas to pave the way for these roads. The measures within the rural development programme are not yet open to us either 7.2, or 7.4 for a year. So it's a ministry that has a MOST. Let us not stand by, let these measures be now finally announced and finally opened and that we finally make something concrete for our citizens. It's not a good message we're sending. We all agree that, of course, we need this law and that we need to restrict people who have criminal acts to run for office. But I think it would be better if we started with some things that the citizens could actually feel, and not again, that some kind of reform that would be going to be going to break it over the back of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1933	Thank you. The esteemed representative Branko Hrg will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1934	Thank you very much, dear colleague. You speak from practice, then we understand each other very well. So, I agree with you about this disproportionate property, absolutely yes, but for that there are already institutions that are monitoring it and that have to follow it. We have a report, so property, and that's what someone needs to see. I also said in the presentation that I was unhappy with the control mechanisms that the Ministry of Administration and the Ministry of Finance should have, at least give a signal that something was happening to the authorities. I have a situation of experience where the municipal council has on several occasions requested that an extraordinary state audit be carried out for the operation of the municipality never came. It's said we're doing it according to the program. The Ministry of Finance saw because they have completely our blood count going on with the budget, they saw that the achievement of the budget is not even 30% of the planned, that means planning really is what is very powerful and good. He saw that certain disproportionate planning had taken place again and nothing had happened. Not to tell you that the Ministry of Administration has appointed in such a municipality a commissioner of a man who was not at all from that local self-government but appointed him and appointed him a man who was appointed mayor, the only one in Croatian iodine in '93. years for the commissioner of such a municipality. What message is that? Here sits Mr. Milosevic, who was at the time an assistant. He knows, I talked to him about it. So absolutely yes, the legal proposals tax and these others will come to order but it's really not the time to do this before the government begins to function.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1935	Thank you and the last replica is the distinguished representative of Ljubice Ambrusec.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1936	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Hrg, I have listened carefully to your presentations and I must congratulate you on such an exhibition, especially in the part where you were told that indeed through this law you must go in alone, I would now say local elections come in completely clean and be in the whole story clean. However, I certainly cannot resist the impression when we are in the last 2013 elections, I am talking about local elections, where I too am independent, I must stress that the candidate from the voters' group won elections in my municipality. Of course only when we started to consider the complete situation by coming as chief and when we made the handover you didn't know whether to move forward or give up the sin that was committed in my municipality was, not only in mine but I suppose that's the case for 60 to 70% of the municipalities, which cities in the Republic of Croatia. I just want to appeal right now that I'm really in favor of having to come in clean, but also those commissioners were represented by some parties back then. Those chiefs were then representing some parties. These commanders who were in power until then, in particular in my municipality, were from the ranks of the HSS where you, Mr. Hrg, were then the president of the HSS and, in the meantime, nothing had been done since then, and I would have relied on Mr. Stazic when he said the party part in this law. In any case, I agree with that part, and I believe that both parties should have certain responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1937	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Branko Hrg will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1938	Thank you very much, esteemed colleagues for your replica. Exactly what I was saying about certain controls that should be done by the Ministry of Administration and the Ministry of Finance a little follow-up on what is going on in the budget positions of local self-government units would probably prevent much from happening in Croatia. That's absolutely correct. And it's clear we're neighbors as local self-government, so we know that we know each other well, we've been party colleagues, right, at the time? I'm not getting into what you found because if I started saying what I found and someone else started saying who knows what would happen. But for those of us who win the election, it's no longer a job to cry for what happened, we knew what was waiting for us, we knew what was waiting for us, it's up to us to roll up our sleeves, fix as much as possible and move forward and that's the point of things. It is therefore important that people who want to work positively and who really want to work honestly should not be subject to a sudden property card like their colleague used to say, and that, at the end of the term, they can still face it in front of people and say it and we have done it in such a situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1939	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the CNS on behalf of which the distinguished representative Goran Beus-Richembergh will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1940	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We are discussing one of the law packages from the MOST workshop that is being hacked into the electoral legislation. I must say immediately at first that the Croatian People's Party Club of Liberal Democrats and the Croatian Party of Retired will not support this proposal and I will say this very simply why. Because we have been taking a very long time to take a responsible and conscious approach to the reconstruction of the entire electoral legislation, to bring the electoral rules and all the criteria under which the elections take place. Not only in the local community when it comes to this law, but also in elections for representatives in the Croatian Parliament, elections for representatives in the European Parliament, but also in elections for the President of the Republic. We today have a system that was built over 26 years in principle... Upgrades, upgrades, stickers, completely inconsistencies, completely unreal, where different criteria and different election rules are used at different levels. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This, of course, confuses voters, because it is possible that at one level, at one of these levels you are fully allowed to have, for example, a powerful court decision, that you have not passed the trial or rehabilitation and that you can run for office, and on the other, you have suddenly prevented it. All those who have tried to avoid suspicions not of us here, but of the public, they've been writing to the media for days, that only one case is going to have to prove their credibility very quickly. Local elections are in 6.7 months, so we'll see if the MPs are the most burning of these options, perhaps candidates in the election in those environments. Well, that's something we can talk about for a very long time. And this theme has shown since yesterday that when this model is introduced and this is how you approach the amendments of the law that then you can see from the plane that it's not good to approach the changes of any law thoughtlessly, paliatically, we would say, rather, that the whole picture is forgotten. The more there are cases from which we can and must learn regardless of who was in power. It's an eclectic and concrete one that happened last year where we have a constitutional court right from September of last year. So not 10 years ago, not 15 years ago, but from September last year, where one is, I'll agree, an honorable intention to narrow down the space of negativity in politics is actually back to work. It's said you can't do it like that, every honor of intent, the best intentions are the preferred ways to hell, but stick to the principle. As a legislative body, it was a message to us, you have to respect the elemental vuses that are defined by the European acquis. Within that gain for the electoral acquis, we agreed to be in charge of the Venice Commission, so we're good at it, so it doesn't fit a little bit. But we can't have a serious state acting like that. Some more experienced MPs and politicians remember how much fire, as I would say love, with how much understanding of the wider context the Republic of Croatia has struggled to enter the Council of Europe. It was the first European institution we entered and where we said we would respect the most democratic standards because it is an organisation that cares primarily about Europe's democratic character and human rights. And then we can't treat that institution like it didn't suggest anything. The principles of European heritage in the area of elections are very clear, explicit not since yesterday, Croatia has signed them then one of the member states that are members of the Council of Europe, says that the general right of vote can be halted or restricted only in concrete cases and by the principles of old age, it is a matter of defining who has the right to vote against citizens in view of its age, then citizenship, residence, and what it means when national legislation decides to take away the right to choose and be elected. The Venice Commission to which the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia must be called and regularly called upon when, in accordance with the rules on the assessment of constitutionality of the law concerning the electoral system, the explicits "can provide for the withdrawal of the right to be chosen and elected", therefore an active and passive voting law "but only under the following cumulative conditions", therefore not to take from the shelf what you will but cumulatively. And he says, "It has to be regulated by law," so it can't be voluntary, it has to be defined in the legal text, we're on to it. Furthermore, there must be respect for the principle of proportionality or proportionality, but the Venice Commission does not leave room for you to divulge what is the principle of proportionality, then it says explicits, the conditions for taking away the right to be chosen, so we are talking about passive voting law, must be lighter than those for taking away the right to vote. Are we consistent with this bill? Have we taken away the electoral right of people by the same criteria as the extension of criminal catalogues? We're not, and we're taking away passive voting rights. And that's what the Constitutional Court said in September last year, Mr. legislators can extend the catalogue of a crime but only if you respect the principle of proportionality, so be consistent. And that's what we have to agree to because otherwise we're going to make a national circus. We will be in a position to open up the space of political arbitration in a country where we all say that the judiciary is one of the brakes of development not only of the economy but also of the democratic political system and democratic political culture because late justice is not good justice. We know very well that in the judicial system, unfortunately by some criteria someone goes faster, by some, someone slower. They can also give examples, the elections run for the man for whom the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest found that from the past elections when he became mayor until today, he acquired a large, very valuable property for which he had no income, he found that he had lied in his property card that he had lied in his property card. We're setting a fine he's running for. This is where we come to this place of morality. But you should look in your own backyard. Every one of us here, no matter what, eight days ago, yesterday or some of us today, swore to uphold the Constitution and the law. Then how is it possible for this speaker to invite people not to respect the law and publicly declare that he who says he does not adhere? Is that moral? Is that a message to the voters? Citizens that a stable democratic system is being created here or that an institutional system is collapsing from this institution as it pleases. Is it possible to do something like that without anyone responding? There is actually a story about morality and how much this legislative body has accomplished its task of speaking, of preserving the institutions of democratic culture and of those standards that we would like to have in the country we live in. And let's not be surprised when the public detests us, when he finds us unserious, irresponsible, and when the dignity of politics and politicians collapses. No one did it. We did it ourselves. Therefore, when accessing amendments to the law, the legislator must weigh 50 times whether it is better or better. And that is why it is important that we all understand that the electoral legislation system in the Republic of Croatia is so colourful that it is long-term unsustainable and that it is not good to change one thing on Tuesdays, on Wednesdays, on Thursdays, thirds rather than accessing it seriously. It is equally serious, if not a more serious task than when accessing amendments to the Constitution. Every Parliament and in our Parliament is a good tradition. Such serious business approaches the creation of a special commission that has been working for months, which is committed to getting as many expert opinions and thinking as possible and then defining the final proposals with which it comes here and opening a public debate. The easiest way to approach all of this is to be individually populist, but responsible work is much harder. Responsible work requires concentration on these issues, the opening of all open issues of electoral legislation. There is hardly anyone here who has agreed to introduce a preferential vote in the local elections. Wait a minute. Well, six months ago in this House, it was discussed, in power, or the ruling majority, that was the same group of parties. The Croatian People's Party has proposed that a preferential vote be put in place in the local elections as well. Neither did they want to talk, because the government, whose government, the government of MOST and HDZ, sent a negative opinion. You know what it said? So that citizens may be confused and not be able to manage, that they may not be able to vote and use a preferential vote in local elections. Imagine what kind of cynicism that is? So what do you think we principles on which we take these views at government level? Let's say we use in India or China where more than a billion people live. Well, they'd never have to have an election because citizens couldn't handle it. You know, there's a lot of lists. There's a lot of voters. Who's gonna count it all. That's not the way to approach it. It doesn't work over my knee. These elections are in six months. The Venice Commission says don't touch election legislation in the last year. Let's be responsible for that. The elections are one of the most important things that happen in every democratic society, and precisely because they didn't deserve to be axed, cut or beautiful new solutions that are not consistent and in spirit with others. We're gonna get the whole circus. Someone here mentioned local self-government. '94. We have euthanized it for years, so that we can politically atomize the state and actually kill the possibility that a citizen at the level at which the most elements of quality life happen would actually be unable to decide anything. And today we have a situation like we have, that one part of the local self-government unit doesn't conduct local elections at all, that they're completely marginalized, that they're nowhere important, that everything depends on the mayor or the mayor. It's no good. Here you see, another topic to open up the story and pass the Law of Local Self-Government. That's a great thing! Whoever advocates from the ruling majority to deal with the Ministry of Administration immediately has my vote no matter what anyone else says. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1941	Thank you very much. And your exposure has caused more replicas. She's the first one to be the esteemed representative of Blaženko Boban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1942	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Beus Richembergh, I picked up a plate at the very beginning, but I'll start at the end. You said at one point at the very end we shouldn't be surprised why citizens looking at us here are perceptivating the unseriousness of this House of Commons. During the debate, almost 15 minutes of your debate, or 14 minutes of your debate, this insecure insecure has indeed been shown. Why? Namely the first sentence of your presentation was the club, my club will not support this bill, and then I expected to continue that sentence because the existing law is valid. And you will not support it because it is going to amend that law, that through Article 2, but it is clear that everything that happens here, the Proposer has repeatedly mentioned everything that happens here, all that is filtered here as positive proposals will be the final proposal of the Laws on Elections at local level or regional level. You mentioned in one segment and good practice of the EU, so I expected some proposal from this European practice, which is a really good proposal, and in addition to the positive adoption of the final law after the second reading, I will also say that the practice within the EU has been adopted by the Law on the direct selection of the mayors and mayors for the 2009 elections at the local level. And that's a good suggestion. But why tie today even the direct selection of mayors, mayors with elections for city and municipal councils? Why would the mayors not be elected for 5 years, and the city and municipal councils would be elected for 4 years? In some ways do not bind current policy in one and the legislative and executive parts at local level in one. Why should these city or municipal councilmen not be appointed deputy mayors? I'm sorry, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1943	Thank you. The honourable representative Goran Beus Richembergh will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1944	Comrade Boban, I'm looking at the fact that you're the head of local self-government with great experience, but you know I didn't grow up in pears either, and I was the deputy mayor of the city, which is sixth-largest. So I know very well how local self-government works, and it's in the gauges that are very demanding, where the budgets are hundreds of millions of kunas. If you haven't understood in 14 minutes why we are against the fact that a law that isn't fixed and good changes in this way, so because legal inequality is going to be created and that we're going to conflict with the Constitutional Court which in April is going to bring this back to us as a boomerang because it happened in September last year, then I don't know how else to explain it to you. And as for the revision of the 2009 Act, which introduced the principle of direct elections, I am very well in the memory of what was going on at the time and I am glad that you are praising the Croatian People's Party's initiative because we have raised this issue and I know how much the political establishment has fought against this idea for three years, trying to leave that solution for the mayors, mayors and mayors to be elected in representative bodies, which opened an endless space for political corruption. And we witnessed that money bags were used to buy votes. With me in Velika Gorica, a man was offered an apartment in Novi Zagreb only to vote for another option, to bring down one majority at the expense of the other. That doesn't happen anymore. That's the problem we've dealt with in a good way. We haven't solved how most of the representative body works until the end, but the mayor can't choose as much as he did before. And in that sense, we took a step forward. So if we're aware and we're now aware of all these solutions, let's go to a unique electoral code where we define similar or same criteria from the top to the bottom.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1945	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mate Frankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1946	My dear colleague, I'd agree with you in a few of your findings, it may sound strange, but the truth. First of all, you said that the judiciary is a brake but you also said that late justice is not good justice and that we agree. However, you also mentioned local elections, or elections for local committees, that is, what sounded very good to me. I don't know if you know it, but Dubrovnik's one of Dubrovnik's mayors hasn't held elections for local committees in the last two years because he's afraid of that result. However, what you also said is that you doubt the intentions of this law, the honorable intentions, or the fact that it seems to you that this is about a law that is only about one person. However, you also said that we would have to prove our credibility. I believe that the HNS will also have the opportunity to prove their credibility very quickly because in the future, don't run for the people who are legally convicted of serious crimes just because you think they can win the election 100%. Don't do that, then it'll be easier for all of us in the future. You have repeatedly said this is a responsible job, it is also a responsible job to be mayor, and in your case, you know your mayor of the CNS has once been convicted, that he is facing a new trial for repeating the same crime, and that there is currently a series of actions against that mayor. Here's what I believe you'll know in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1947	The honourable representative Goran Beus Richembergh will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1948	I'll sort of respect the fact that I'm not from Dubrovnik, so I won't get involved in your Dubrovnik stuff but I can't take the impression of Mr. Frankovic that you have a chance to become mayor of Dubrovnik only if this law is passed. That's the problem. So I'm giving you a chance to talk me out of it in six, seven months. It's that kind of credibility. So it's perfectly legitimate for you to go into an election fight against the counter-candidate you think is worse than you or that it's done damage or for 1001 reasons you think you're better and you're better off doing the mayor's job. I mean it for my mayor. That's perfectly legitimate, but you know what the problem is? I don't decide who will be mayor in Velika Gorica, neither you in Dubrovnik, but citizens. And I can think that I'm qualified to be the director of the universe, that I'm the most beautiful person in the world and that there's no person in Velika Gorica who can be better than you think there is no person who can be better than you in Dubrovnik. But we're free if the citizens don't think so. That's what the citizens will decide and they've already rejected your insolence twice in that direction. People say up to three times God helps, so maybe he'll help you too. Maybe a colleague of Christich's, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1949	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed colleague Mare Kristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1950	Here's my esteemed colleague, Beus, thank you for your participation in the debate. I'm only going to ask you one question now but please answer me with yes or no, without demagogy. Is it an act of abuse of office and authority at the mayor's post, in particular an impeccable crime and whether such a person should be able to run? That's one question, so that's the question I'm asking you to answer with yes or no. I must tell you that in your debate, I heard something that I didn't like very much, given that you, as a representative in the Parliament, participated in these amendments and amendments to the laws that were partly in the previous Parliament's meetings. And I agree with you that this law needs one whole, thorough amendment in order for him to be complete and consistent. However, when such amendments to the laws were made that were partly not protested, I expected that you would not reject such a bill, especially if we had a public debate before us, I expected that by a quality approach and amendments, you would contribute to making this bill as high as possible and more consistent in protecting the interests of the local community. When we were in charge and we were preparing this bill, we were absolutely not targeting the individual but protecting the local community. And it is you who protects this individual who has committed a crime of abuse of office and authority, which is why he should never run for mayor of Dubrovnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1951	Thank you. The honourable representative Goran Beus-Richembergh will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1952	Dear colleague Kristic, you know we're not on a quiz, you don't have the right to set a form of answer for me. After all, you've replicated me, not me to you. So I never answer yes and no, because it's pretty shallow to me, you know, the world doesn't consist of black and white, there's a lot of, some say, what, 100 or 50 shades of gray for example. Now, as to what you last said, I'm glad to give you a chance to talk about Dubrovnik, on this particular subject, because that confirms everything the public suspects. It's not about who I would support or who I wouldn't. In my midst, I would never support anyone who is, who is not a healthy head, let alone anything else, but in your midst others decide, the Dubrovnik women and the Dubrovnik women decide. That's what this is about. And how the law changed and what we wanted. You know, unlike you, I never kill a cow for one steak. I am one of the seven HNS deputies who signed the initiative to introduce a preferential vote when half of the parliament jumped to its feet from torment. It took three months of good, fat and quality debates to put it into place and to see which was actually the benefit of it. There were 27 or 29 of us who seemed to have signed this initiative. And just in order to change the key thing is to introduce a preferential vote. At that time, it was less profound, even the more the catalogue of crimes was extended. And in that sense, it is good that the final word was given by the Constitutional Court. But if we got our noses on, so I don't know why you're sticking your nose in that hole, for God's sake, is that sadomasochism or what it is? You should learn from others, not always from your skin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1953	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1954	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Beus-Richembergh, you said in your debate that such important laws should not be passed quickly and without excessive consultation with the public and with groups that can make a qualitative contribution to lawmaking. And that's true. If the reason we're discussing here today was to pass a quality law, then you'd be right and then probably even your MOST colleagues would understand that. But since the reason for today's debate here in the Assembly is to create impressions and messages to the public for what you are, although there are a lot of effective methods for people to say what they are for, not to give instructions to the assembly benches of the law on three articles, but I can say that on the press, they can also say the campaign, people remember well what they stand for. She'd do it and your argument, your remark would hit the srid. So since they didn't have that intention, it was simply a message to the public then it's insignificant, or I would say unnecessary to tell them since their intensity wasn't. On the other hand, when we talk about preferential voting and at local level, I think we've closed the bottle, or opened the bottle, and that simply that spirit came out of the bottle and that it will eventually be applied in the local environment. But I would like to warn you that I would much prefer in the local environments also as I said yesterday in a debate beyond the state level to see election units. What means to me and the city of Zagreb is one preferential vote of 51 candidates on the list, I do not choose one representative who can not represent Buzin and Gornji grad or Maksimir again. I want the election units to know who their representative is in the city hall. So one preferential voice doesn't mean better and further democratisation in the sense that you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1955	Thank you. The honourable representative Goran Beus Richemberhg will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1956	Here is the final example, for example, of how to approach these things with tweezers and scalpel, not axes and hammers, because if we choose 51 representatives in the City Assembly in Zagreb, and there are municipalities in which we choose 7, I think, or 9 municipal councillors, 9 is the least, so that is a huge disproportionate. And then how can three voices always produce the same effect? So that's already one question that five smart people need to sit around the table and talk about and see if that's an ideal solution. But I'm always curious about what we do in presenting Croatia to the outside, I'm very sensitive about it. We care more about who goes to the European Parliament, there are no criminal catalogues there. It could be whoever wants a candidate. He could be a minister. Why isn't there a criminal record with government members? For example. a crime of plagiarism or other criminal offences. So some are more equal than equal is that inconsistency, it's not understanding the whole when you want to go into a palitative single solution with the best intention, and actually you create a nakaradic system. So let's give it to the end then, in this sense of credibility, so we approach all these levels by moralizing and establishing criteria under which you cannot enter Croatian politics, not on a particular duty. So you can be the President of the Republic, but you can't be a councilman in the municipality. It doesn't make any sense, but it's a good thing you opened that question because here's the debate. You just know what, I'd prefer this general debate we've been having for days if first those who know more about it than we do, let's say experts and constitutional justice. And that we have some solutions that have already been cleared, that have already received some filtration from people who know more than we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1957	I welcome all MPs and MPs. The next replica is a distinguished colleague, Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1958	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, Beus Richembergh, I agree with you, so this is extremely complex matter. I welcome this debate because it's good to discuss these things, the truth is I agree with you that it needs to be prepared well. Democracy is not enough in the Declarations or in the Constitution or anywhere... that we are a demographic society, democracy should be built, this process should be developed because here you mentioned the 2009 elections. I then became the head of the municipality because I won the first round. If it hadn't been for such an immediate choice, I wouldn't have been Chief, you wouldn't be in the Parliament today. I argue this because experience taught me and in all previous elections the fate of the commissioner was later resolved in the municipal council where various corrupt actions and other actions, the political trade in election results changed. What is certain here should be emphasized that this approach should be cautious because two things mattered, that's what my colleague Maras was saying, yesterday I was in the debate talking about the first territorial structure, and the other laws that are bound by the electoral laws themselves. We, if this is the way we want to increase voter motivation to go to the polls, and on the other hand we want to limit passive voting rights, and I would say that, for example. I mentioned it this morning in the replica. I wish I could run for mayor of Virovitica, but I wouldn't want Mr. Ivica Kirina to win because he's in prison because he's accused of serious criminal offences in the FIMI Media affair so I'd like to beat him by the voter's will and that's usually my position. And as for the local level, you can see about when we talk about administrative capacity of the municipality, the financial capacities are being held elections for local elections. My colleague Hrg said a few people were coming out. You know why a few people go out? Because local self-government can't work. You don't have that capacity. He needs to have his gyrocalc, he has to have an administration that monitors it, and people just can't do it, and when they see it doesn't make sense, then they don't even go out to that kind of choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1959	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1960	Comrade Sagar, we have an infamous past of political corruption when it comes to local self-government. So we witnessed for 25 full years that it was almost normal to buy votes and favors from one side of the council to the other. You remember those cases as Sporter, as the other one was called in Zagreb, and then with me in Velika Gorica,... a man testifies that they brought him a suitcase full of money, the other tells me that they offered him an apartment, etc., etc. So for 25 years it was normal for us. And then there's the Sabo case. A man goes to jail for a felony in an attempt. So he didn't make it at all, he tried to make it. We had a demonstration exercise after 25 years, pretty late. Because until then, political corruption has allowed billions and billions of kunas to be stolen or rerouted from the public into private interest at all levels. Remember two years ago Cvitan our state's attorney said that the biggest problem was actually at local level. The state's attorney's office obviously has insight into that. But only in 2005 did Bullet get paid by Sabo. I hope that this demonstration exercise has produced something in the heads of all those who want to run politics at local level, but I'm afraid it's not much, I'm afraid there's still thieving, corruption, money sucking at many, many points, and it's going to take a lot of energy to contain it and reduce it. I would like the new MOST and HDZ government to make the most of the possible emphasis on anti-corruption measures and the programme, because that alone will restore confidence in politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1961	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I apologize. There is another replica of fellow Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1962	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In your discussion, you said that laws should not be passed quickly without broad public debate and with partial solutions. And there you were quite right and then with your debate behind it you mentioned local self-government and it was just the law that regulates local self-government proof of what happens when changes to the law don't come through a broad debate, substantively and thoroughly. I'm glad that local self-government mentioned itself. I think that's what my colleague Bulj opened today first, here. Here I come from a town that was given today by a minister in the government who held elections for local committees in the 4th month of 2004. So their term of office expired in 2008. Since then, we have no choice for local committees. Every year we have an item in the budget for the work of local committees. In the budget implementation every year, we have shown that these funds have been spent there, but there is nothing. As councilors of the opposition in that city, we have been constantly warning about these elections for 3, 4, every 3rd, 4th month, the government is only laughing and speaking to us. And why is that? Because the law that regulates it says that the city and the municipality can have local committees, that every 4 years elections for these local committees have to be conducted, but there are no sanctions if you don't. So the one who breaks it can't even answer for it because the law didn't predict that he could answer for it, not even cash, but morally or materially. And the only change that has happened in the last few years is, imagine we changed before the local committee elections was called by the mayor and we've changed that they are now being convened by the city council that again controls the mayor in most cases. And then no one remembered to put a provision on what would happen if these elections didn't take place, and that's why all changes need to be made through a broad public debate and in thorough ways because when I hear examples like this, then they can be built into any amendments to the law. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1963	In order to mock the shadow of their great head, we must admit it's not even our little one. So I'm about this problem of the lack of functional local self-government, or its euthanasia in '94. He spoke here in this House about three years ago, when we, our majority, were in power. And then we were told from the Department of Administration that they would seriously consider this problem so that they could see it and suggest something. That didn't happen unfortunately. So there are so many radical solutions that play democracy and actually kill people's will to be locally active. So 5 members of the local board are elected and 5% is said to be the electoral threshold. So give me a figure of what the 5% electoral threshold is if 5 people are chosen. Well, no, the election threshold is 20% for God's sake. Secondly, if you're not in the parties, if you want to simply be an active citizen in your place to contribute, you have ideas, you have ideas, you want to run something, you don't stand a chance because it's such a majority view of people sitting on the council of the local board. Because to get into the council of the local committee, you need that 20%. So how do you get 20%? Not at all. Actually, why did you do it? To fight two villages. Once the local community included 8 or 9 villages of a small micro region that had identical interests and then overnight everyone got their own local committees, we have presidents, we have councils, they've politically established themselves over some list and of course everyone's looking at their own ad. And that neighboring village that has the same, same problem for us, we don't care about them. Give us this street, give us our road. And what goes through the other three villages, I don't care, it's mine that matters to me. And we killed actually the will of people to work locally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1964	Thank you, too. On behalf of Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club, distinguished counterpart Marko Šimic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1965	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. The rapporteur’s very presentation shows the purpose and intention of this legal proposal. And this is primarily the protection of the dignity of members, representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government, to municipal mayors, mayors, mayors and their deputies, and to increase voter confidence in representative and executive bodies of government, units of local self-government. In this way, the applicant seeks to bring the procedure, ways and criteria of running, i.e. obstacles to running in local elections, and to bring them in line with the criteria for running in the elections for the Croatian Parliament. It is important to stress that this legislative proposal has been discussed in three parliamentary committees and that the proposer himself, like all members and debaters, is both on committees and here in the Assembly, that they have seen that there are parts of the law, to which special attention should be paid, which should be complemented, and as such delivered to another reading. The parliamentary committees also delivered their conclusions and reports to the Croatian Parliament. I will remind on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community in the Croatian Parliament of just some of them. It is noted in the discussions that it is necessary to coordinate and even the catalogue of criminal offences that restricts the possibility of running in local elections with elections for MPs in the Croatian Parliament and all in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2015, which we often mention in our discussions. Furthermore, we believe that it is also necessary to consider the length of the term of the prison's unconditional sentence, and to level the regulation in the 2 legislative proposals that are in the parliamentary procedure in the first reading. We believe that the addition in the direction of obtaining the competent court's conviction that there are no grounds for banning or impeding a candidate is justified and useful, but through the work of the committee, there have also been several proposals on how such convictions should be put in place, that a large number of lists and candidates on the lists would not lead to the accumulation of courts and disablings, i.e. infringing the functionality and regularity of such judicial bodies. We also believe that a clear position should be established on this issue, and it is here that through this parliamentary debate it is articulated and entered into the proposal, i.e. the final draft of the law. It shall also be taken into consideration and the time limit of the vaccination of this law laid down in Article 3 of this proposal. The HDZ advocates' club will support this bill and refer it further to the procedure. In order to enable the clubs of representatives and interested individuals to submit their amendments and, where necessary, amend and supplement the provisions of this proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1966	Thank you very much. We have three replicas. The first is a replica of a respected colleague of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1967	Well, my colleague, of course, is that all changes are good and so are the extension of criminal acts for those who do not get to run. And it is regrettable that our system in the Republic of Croatia, in fact, that poored the state, the factories robbed that today the prominent citizens, that almost the owners of those who manage 2.3% of the wealth of the Republic of Croatia. Those who are owners of Croatian citizens, those who give the cashiers 2 thousand kunas until those cashiers can go to the bathroom and have to have diapers. Simply and these are our sisters, our mother, simple society is so down to the lowest branch on the matter that it can't be reached at all why. Because the people, this cashier who works in some kind of trading chain, she can't even figure out what it's about, she just doesn't know how to feed her family because she's doing Sundays, because she's doing every day for 12 hours and it's questionable if it's worth anything. And I can't rebel because the union's gone. And, of course, there are some criteria that need to be put into politics, because I'm sure the cashiers deserve it. I'm talking about cashiers, but also other employees and employees in other restaurants who also today have no salaries adequate for what they do from those same ones who have come who knows which way to own up to 90% of the property of the Republic of Croatia which is very important. It was mentioned here, I'll be back now, mentioning local self-government. I've run for the local committee three times, and now I'm the chairman of the local committee. There's absolutely no jurisdiction. And that's the first line with citizens, the first line of defense is local committees. If you are similar to political i.e. If you're in line with the policy that's in power in town, you can get something if you can't. It's not fair to the citizens. It is absolutely necessary to change that law, or it does not need elections at all, if these people are doing volunteer work with a heart, and in fact it is the activist, volunteer policy that is on the lowest branches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1968	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1969	Dear colleague Bulj, I do agree with some of the findings you've expressed in your replica, but I cannot find what you've actually replicated to me. I can only say that in my presentation I talked about the proposed amendments to the law as proposed by your club representatives, hence the independent list of MOSTs. I can tell you that he doesn't say anything about secretaries. He writes about unconditionally convicted persons in prison. And I talked about it and represented the the thesis and attitudes of my club of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1970	Thank you very much. The second replica is the esteemed representative Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1971	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Dear fellow Simic, I congratulate you on your presentation on behalf of the HDZ Club both yesterday and today. I know you're here for the first time in the Croatian Parliament and this is your first night out for a pay phone. You have well prepared the topic and on behalf of the club you have defended what the coalition partner has proposed even though in your own debate you have highlighted the ambiguities and dilemmas that need to be corrected in this bill. Because first of all, in my opinion and in the opinion of the HSS, it's not good for this law to change a few months before the local elections. We could have done it 6 or 8 months ago because the same majority was and could have proposed it and changed it because we need to prepare local self-government, regional self-government, to prepare municipal, city, county election committees, we need to prepare the judiciary, and especially we don't appreciate it because many of our entrepreneurs, investors say we're too much of a country, too many laws, Maltas not every day we've passed a new law and there's one legal uncertainty, so now we're going to change the law just to get someone to like. Of course, we support that persons who have committed a crime should not be mayors, mayors, but that is what the Constitutional Court has to say about it. And we shouldn't pass a law that will be in practice inconclusive, which will fall in the Constitutional Court. And that's why we're glad it goes to another reading but also why not change some other things. First of all, if the budget is not adopted, the Chief and the Council will fall. It agrees with five, six councilmen in a small municipality and only because they have some of their own private interests to tear down the budget and we go to new elections, had a new cost and nothing new will happen after the next election but only the cost of that environment. And I think in that direction, the law needs to be looked at with more aspects, and since we're changing laws to change them completely and they're consistent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1972	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1973	Dear colleague Vlaovic, I really thank you for the criticism, that is, the commendation for preparing and presenting the views of the club of representatives or here at the Croatian Parliament in this address today and yesterday. And I actually agree with everyone that you've said and I'm glad that in your work at the levels at which we've previously collaborated, you're accessing everything with a really great amount of responsibility and caution. However, I will again only limit myself to that debate as the legislator suggested. We are discussing those articles which are therefore a proposal for this law so that this second part that is not listed in this proposal would not comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1974	Thank you very much. It's still not three, it's five replicas. The next is distinguished representative Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1975	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague. We have been listening here for several hours to neglect how morality and cleanliness are introduced into the Croatian electoral system and political life. That expression has been repeated several times. So we have puritans here. As a matter of fact, this law introduces a rigidity that does not exist anywhere in Europe. So, so many criminal heads on which someone cannot run right now, we have just heard that there is no such condition for the European Parliament to eliminate a political opposition. I would also ask that the legislator tell me according to the current, therefore, composition of local administration officials to what extent this law would affect them, or how affected it would be. However, if the legislator already wants to introduce some kind of morality into political life at local level instead of introducing such unnecessary laws, it would be better to set the mayor's salaries, that they be corrected. Let's say we have cases that Sisak-Moslavina Mayor, Split-Dalmatia Mayor, Licko-Senj Mayor, all of the HDZ ranks have higher salaries than ministers. So if this is possible given that these counties are not doing very well, this is one way to introduce morality into Croatian political life, or political life at local level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1976	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1977	Dear colleague Bunjac, I really do understand in part your finding in this replica. But I think we often go from completely wrong assumptions in this House. It really saddens me when we talk about the judicial authorities and, in fact, the entire organisation of government in the Republic of Croatia with some kind of negativeistic attitude and with the starting point that the courts are not doing their job well, that the judges are corrupt, etc. Of course, there are examples in practice, you will always find examples if we go from church, parties, courts, hospitals, any state, public administration and all that. But in this House, however, we must primarily fight to ensure a quality, stable, sustainable legislative framework and conditions for courts to do their job well and quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1978	Next, an esteemed colleague, Gordan Maras, applied for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1979	Thank you very much. Col. Simic, during your presentation, I have essentially gained the impression that it is not easy for you and that, in essence, the support of the HDZ Club of Representatives is essentially conditional on most of the Croatian government. Because if what you're saying were coming from the heart of the HDZ club, then twice in the past local elections, the person in Virovitica who confessed, she admitted that she did the work of abuse of the position and authority of the mayor of Virovitica HDZ. So don't tell me now that you're waiting for a final verdict. Well, the man confessed. You could read that in his testimony and in the media. He said he was taking money from the ministry to reroute it through one company to HDZ. If that were so, that you were really so troubled by your desire to raise the standard in local units that you couldn't run for the people who committed crimes or who were involved in criminal acts then Mr. Kirin would not have done it twice in a row after he confessed to being a HDZ mayoral candidate for Koprivnica. And that is why I have the real impression that this is not a sincere wish of HDZ to raise standards at local level, but simply that you agreed to the ultimatum of MOST to achieve the majority and have the position of prime minister in the Croatian government. So, on the one hand, we can't show ourselves to moralists, and on the other hand, we can't do something exactly the opposite. The HDZ is the same in Virovitica both in the county and at the state level. It's all the same party. You must clearly ask yourself these questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1980	Reply to the replica, dear fellow Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1981	Dear colleague Maras, you have indeed noticed that it is not easy for me to speak in the Croatian Parliament for the reason this is my first term, because I deeply respect the Croatian Parliament as the highest body of government in the Republic of Croatia. And no one from my family has ever been a parliamentary representative before, and it's a big deal for me and for my family and for the environment I come from is that I can represent them here. And as for some of my personal attitudes, you don't have to doubt them. Earlier, it was the Croatian Democratic Community that proposed a law similar to this, so there should be no doubt in that part. But you mentioned Virovitica. I'm a legal lawyer by profession, and in Virovitica and the Virovitica case, you're well aware that there is no judicial verdict. Let's wait, there's no problem. If you're aware of the court's case, then you know that there's no judicial verdict, that a judicial verdict has absolutely nothing to do with a confession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1982	Thank you very much. I thank my colleague Glavas, he gave up the replica, and then we move on to a further debate. The next is distinguished colleague Ivan Pernar on behalf of the Representatives' Club Lives the Wall of the Alphabet of Democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1983	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are in a historic moment, and I'm not saying that for no reason, our country is in a state of deep crisis. And the question arises why are we in such a big crisis, and in the end I'm going to point out in the end, this crisis is a crisis of democracy. This morning I had a chance to talk to a colleague of the SDP and through a conversation with him he told me like this, Ivan, we don't decide here. And I ask him, and then what's the model? He says, the government makes a decision, and then that decision is given to the Parliament to vote, and there is this parliamentary majority that supports the government, and regardless of all our common senses or whatever, simply that majority will make decisions not necessarily on their own conscience, but on decisions imposed by the ruling party. Unfortunately, the problem stems from the government's decisions are not decisions stemming from the people or decisions proposed by parliamentary deputies to the government, but the rule model is opposite vertical from the top to the bottom. Those who suggest to the government that they make a decision to the Parliament are beyond the borders of our country. And that's why Vladimir Seks recently said that our country is being managed outside. This problem of foreign governance actually suggests that any amendments to the electoral law that we make here will ultimately not reflect the real change in policy because we ladies and gentlemen sitting here, or me standing here and you sitting, are not ultimately the ones who decide. And that's the scariest thing in this whole story. We can discuss the electoral law here, who can run, who can't run, but the irony is that no matter who ran and who was elected is not the one who decides. And that's why Mirjana Hrga, if I'm not mistaken, asked Vladimir Seks during election night, and then what's the point of all this. So what's the point of this debate, what's the point of me arguing with my colleagues, mostly me now on the right-hand side of the HDZ? In itself, if the governance system does not change, it is obvious that this debate itself does not make sense and that my time here has been wasted because neither of you colleagues in the ruling structure will change their minds regardless of my words. So I refer these words exclusively to people who look at us and look at us on the side, who are witnesses of what is going to happen in the future. I'd like to say that the proposed amendments to the law are rigorous because even when someone does time he still can't run. A colleague of the SDP Maras is an excellent point for Mr Simic of HDZ that they themselves in the party or in the mayoral positions, for example. There are people in Virovitica who have admitted that they have abused the position of authority. Not that Mayor Virovitica is the only one, we all know, the difference is only that he confessed, and his other colleagues from HDZ like Bozidar Kalmeta, they haven't done it yet. However, as I said, we live in a country of double criteria where HDZ is allowed everything, all violations of the law, violations of human rights, and among other things I was exposed to them myself. In 2011, HDZ led against me a whole series of mounted court trials at the Criminal Court in which I had no objectively stood a chance. The trial itself was a farce because my guilt was predetermined and only the trial had to give a legal basis for my conviction. These processes serve the shame not only of Karamark, who was then minister of police, but of all of you. And in addition to your love for democracy, it is the fact that you banned protests in Mark's square. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out whether Milan Bandic is to blame for the things that are being put on him or not, the court will decide. In my opinion, he may have been guilty of some things, but his biggest crime was not done after he had strayed from the SDP rather than before, while he and the SDP shared the spoils and all his legal problems eventually arose only after he left the SDP. If Milan Bandic were prosecuted and convicted and thus kicked out of the political race, he would be struck against democracy even though he was guilty, and here's why. It's the right of citizens to choose who they want. Milan Bandic as much as I disagree with him, there is a reason why citizens choose him, and that reason is sad, because citizens know that they voted for HDZ or SDP so that they may be even worse off than with Bandic. If you want to defeat Milan Bandic, regardless of what the SDP or HDZ colleagues are, I call on you to beat him in elections and democratically, with the will of voters and through ballots, and not in a trial where his guilt was predetermined or the outcome of the trial was known before the trial itself began. Such processes were sometimes called Stalinist, and they served to politically eliminate all those who were not part of the structures in power or were intruding. In the same way, I invite you gentlemen from MOST if you have better candidates than Mr. Vlahusic, go out with him to the elections, let this man present his programme and beat Mr. Andru Vlahusic in the election. That's what you're throwing candidates out of the election race, through changes in election law, you're actually committing crimes against democracy, and that war against democracy has been something that has been going on in our country for many years. That plan that was imposed from the west and that turned our country into a vasal, when I asked the age-olds, if I'm not wrong about Stjepan Zdunic while he's making the economy, I tell him, so professor, i.e. Doctor, I say, our country is managed from the outside and he tells me that Ivan, our country has always been in a vassal relationship. However, instead of us here in the Parliament discussing why decisions on privatising our businesses are being made beyond the borders of our country, why we must have a currency clause, why citizens must be exposed to terror of banks, why we cannot protect the economic belt, why at the request of the IMF we must lower salaries to employees in public services, why we must introduce real estate taxes. So we're not even dealing with important questions about the lives of real citizens at all, but we're dealing with an election process as if the election process that you're proposing is going to change anything in the lives of citizens. There's a folk saying after Tito-Tito. Even if Bandic moves. And I honestly doubt that someone better and fairer will come to his post, especially if it comes from the HDZ and SDP ranks. Because if there were more honest and better people in your ranks, you'd already beat him in the election. Although I am a political opponent of Milan Bandic, although I do not agree with all his decisions and especially not with the bad things he did in criminal terms, I would still not be honored and proud to beat him by judicial means, and especially not in a way that I, from the position of government, limit him from running in the elections even though he is a member of the opposition. The situation in which the ruling party marks opposition members for elimination and removes from the election race is opposed to the very meaning of the election and actually marks a hidden dictatorship. Today, or tomorrow, it may be about Andra Vlahusic and Milan Bandic, the day after the verdict of the viritarian mayor becomes powerful of him, the day after that, perhaps also to Mr. Glavas if he is again convicted in a directed court trial. There's no end to this kind of procedure. And they're in Croatian politics every day. It is a sad fact that people who took money from black funds, like the HDZ's Darko Milinovic, who signed money payments, from money that was sucked out of state-owned companies through the FIMI Media affair. It was never sanctioned or processed or ever intended to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, you all know that and yet you protect it. While on one hand you will use all possible political protection for your colleagues who are incriminated as is. I repeat, Mr. Kalmeta, other people like Andra Vlahusic, who is the most honest among them in this gallery, or Mr. Beljak, who has been convicted of breaking into cars. When I heard that accusation about him I said if it's all you have against him to burden him it's one of the most honest members of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, that's a sad fact. Also, first row sits Miljan Brkic from HDZ on the right. This gentleman was a loyal associate of Karamark's, and he knows all that man did, knows all his secrets because he was his right hand for many years. Mr. Brkic will never be convicted as long as HDZ is in power, however, not even Karamarko, but people who are part of the opposition, who are not networked with its structures, could quickly and easily be found on the political shooting list. You all know there are few people among us here who don't have butter on their heads. Why? Because the moment you enter politics by force, you get a chance to find each and every one of us, sooner or later, in a gray zone. However, I repeat, the basic problem is the judiciary. If the judiciary were fair, if it weren't biased, then it wouldn't be a problem to say, okay, everyone who has a headway go out of politics. I'd say okay fair deal, fair deal. However, this is not about the government’s intention, namely by ruling to deal with all people with a head potter, but about the selective way of people who are not part of the government intending to exclude themselves from the election race so that close and loyal people, who unfortunately are not more honest than those who are replacing them, come to them. Ladies and gentlemen, please do not just as I pointed out in the vote of Prime Minister Plenkovic, during the vote on the proposed amendments to this law. And I urge you to vote on your own conscience and not strike down democracy. Thank you so much, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1984	Thank you very much. We have five replicas. I'd just like to appeal, if I may, to a colleague, so you're a little bit prejudicing court rulings, freedom of speech here is absolute, but yet you mentioned some names, so somehow I'd like to ask that we don't do it because of the objectivity and justice of these people. We'll see what the verdicts show. Here we go with the replicas, the first distinguished colleague is Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1985	Comrade Pernar, yesterday we discussed the same thing in the Justice Department to repeat ourselves. It shouldn't be, there's no need. You said that it was amazing to me, too, when he was just following the side that when it was voted in the EU's Parliament, it was accepted unanimously, while surely the Croatian people were not unanimous to join the EU and other associations. Because it means that at that moment, this Parliament was, in fact, not the expression of this kind of present will towards these integrations. But, as it is, democracy is such a process and things have to change. You said obedience or obedience, so you had seven deadly sins, and you certainly should have added eight, which is the ear, perhaps the greatest sin. To be listened too well to be constructive, to talk, to communicate, and to draw together conclusions but to obey how you, we implied all obedient certainly did not guess there. I can say for sure for myself, I can talk to you, but I certainly won't listen to you, so if I were the party president, I'll do it again. And hearing is a big problem both in politics and in other social classes because in essence obedience to the great leaders of how any leader comes to any political option doesn't matter now, it simply leads to service and half-domination. And that's why some other forces may be operating in Parliament. I'm telling you myself... ever since the Most made you and the Most were rightly, democratically. You have the right to express your will. But I'm sure 12 MOST people didn't say we wouldn't overstate and you were in a coalition with people who wanted to overrule the government with Tomislav Karamark. Surely at this point you wouldn't be in Parliament. There's only that much, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1986	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1987	I want to thank my colleague Bulju and I must say that he is one of the few people in this place who expresses his free opinion and his free will. My sincere desire for people to speak to me from the left, and for me from the right to speak freely of what they think and not always follow the dictates of the party. I would like you to be free people because without you as free individuals this House will never be a place of decision or our country will ever be free. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1988	The next replica is Honorable representative Željko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1989	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here I am always fond of the debates of our Mr. Pernar. I'm sorry that you just now realized that in this house most people decide on Fridays, that the government sitting across from Mark's square has a majority here and that those who send it here to adopt it. It's always been so, and it will be as long as the government will be. As far as this law is concerned, I don't think that we should be chasing him, not only should we stick to what MOST said was his guarantee, I don't know if it might be Mr. Jambo, so now we have to pass this law, but we also have a living example of the judiciary in our country that is Mr. Glavas who defended Osijek, the Republic of Croatia at that time when there were no weapons or anything, he used what was accessible to him and in the end our courts were dragging him out and so he could be in that position that even though he sacrificed both life and everything he had that he couldn't run in the Republic for some position. We often have at our various levels of power and people who are not exposed, they are condemned, they may say, and perhaps some more difficult word has a figure of the mayor that is sinless, has come by sinless conception and is totally sinless and drags the ends out of the background. I think this law came too late as Royce said, who's the bailer, and now only the saints should be. And I think that the voters are the ones who decide, they're the true court and our debates in this house that we're in are not empty, they're an indicator of what kind of representatives we are and what people and voters are judging by that, unfortunately we have to wait four years for who was what, and then usually the government goes into opposition, the opposition returns to power, or such combinations happen. But I think you should be careful with this and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1990	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1991	He wanted to thank his esteemed colleague for expressing his own will and for speaking according to his own conscience and for seeing what I believe to the silent majority here apparently. However, the difference between the silent majority and the formal majority is high. Because unfortunately, there are certainly people in the HDZ who would not want to vote for this law and will vote in the party's path. For MOST, the reason is clear, this law is passed only for one man, Andre Vlahusic. I repeat, if you want to defeat him, I urge him to do so through elections, a democratic process, not in one statistical way in which he has no chance. Because if this law is passed he loses his ability to run and can no longer go to the elections. Such a way of dealing with the political opposition could one day come to your attention because one day you might be able to strike that same law, and knowing the human mentality and the way the government works, I have no doubt that in the same model and in the same way this law will be used against people who will be the opposition in the future, or that the government will always use such non-democratic methods to deal with its non-insects. Therefore, I appeal once again that this law should not be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1992	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Col. Pernar, in his debate on several occasions, said later by counterpart Bulj that we all voted for no matter what individuals thought because as parties so ordered and that this was why it was unanimous, although the Croatian people did not agree. As far as the EU is concerned, we all know how things went. The Croatian people made it clear that they wanted to join the Croatian EU and that it is more and more above the party what my people want, it is my obligation. On the other hand, you have concluded that there is no fairer in HDZ and SDP than Milan Bandic, otherwise he would already be defeated in the elections. I wish that was the way it was in life, because in that case, the SDP would already have a mayor. But, unfortunately, honesty is not a guarantee that you'll win the election. So if you're honest, and you're right and you're acting one way that people in standards expect it doesn't mean you're going to win the election, because then Mr. Kirin wouldn't have won the Virovitica twice. So, the gentleman who confessed to the crime, who admitted that he was pulling money, he won neatly twice in the election. And because of that, here's why I don't agree with you that honesty is that. I don't think so, and I think I've shown it by this example. The second thing is that it's a disaster that a man really wants to get kicked out of a race based on known facts. After that, the law is passed just so he can't run. With Mr. Vlahusic, I absolutely support what you said, there it should be shown in the elections, not by law to kick the man out of the race.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1993	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1994	I would just like to point out one fact, which is that as far as joining the EU is concerned, firstly, if I am not mistaken by the Government, or the Parliament voted to join the EU and an agreement was signed, and then the people in the referendum wondered what they were thinking about it. And many citizens did not go to this referendum because they believed that the referendum itself was a purely formality procedure without the citizens really asking. The problem Miro Bulj has pointed out is that it is not a problem that MPs voted for, but the problem is that 30% of the citizens who voted no, or no one in the parliament is represented. Today there is a Living Wall, probably the only Eurosceptic party behind those people's views. As for the other remarks of Mr. Maras, I must say that I agree in part to be the most honest does not necessarily mean winning the election race. However, one thing I must confess to Milan Bandic. When the Living Wall was equally grinding and satining both HDZ and SDP, they also disembarked each other. The only person who helped us or the association then "Stop Delications" that came into contact with the space and money I think it was about 30,000 kuna was Milan Bandic. And what's this about? The difference between Bandic and HDZ and SDP is that Bandic was giving money to everyone. So Bandic is not selective to his own people while HDZ and SDP unfortunately have such practice and we have witnessed it too. I must point out this time that Milan Bandic never asked us for any favors, but his act of giving help, or support for us, was unconditional nature, and therefore I believe that he is no worse than those who wanted to destroy him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1995	Next replica, distinguished representative Željko Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1996	Thank you, Mr. President. So a lot of names are mentioned in the debate, and the first thing I would like to do is praise this open way and the attitude when speaking to my colleague Pernar. He really speaks unencumberedly, although he speaks of things that have broken over his back, and very quickly what he is saying, and what people are happy to hear today, and that is why on all news and portals, this will soon be technically what he says and will be part of future legal solutions. Because we're going to have to appeal to reason and see the real meaning of certain legal solutions that we bring here. So I want to replicate in the part where I think it's wrong to mention people, to impute as a colleague Maras admits. So we don't know if the confessions were given or not. In particular, they haven't been cleared of charges against people. And to make real sense, you don't have to talk in this context. But the real sense is, in fact, the possible abuse of this legal solution lies in an unfree judiciary. So, our state is still not legally regulated to this extent so that we can say there will be no abuse of such legal solutions, and that in that part of our colleague Pernar rightly says that before each election we have series, so to speak, judicial proceedings, police acts, and all this clearly points to the abuse of power. So if we had a stable judicial system, independent, if we had a legal state, then these provisions wouldn't be at all controversial. And since we really don't have it, we have to admit it and we have to start primarily from the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1997	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1998	I would like to thank my colleague Lackovic for telling the truth what he thinks and what I believe he feels and most of the citizens actually do. Things are the way they are. The judiciary is what it is, and as we have mentioned a million times, it is not independent and it is not impartial to hand over the political will of the people into the hands of the judiciary at present, and that is, in the service of the party in power, it would mean not only denying the will of the people but greatly actuating it. Once again, I urge both Mr Bandic and Andre Vlahusic to fight politically and politically against them through elections and democratic channels. Also, I want to say that the current law doesn't make a difference between whether or not you hired someone through a relationship or, say, I signed up high school through a relationship, gentlemen and ladies. Now imagine the person who put me through the link that she was in the mayor's position. And now you for such a thing as the person who has the political support of the citizens can, you will say he traded with his influence and you will forbid him running just like the person who stole, say, 15 million kuna. abuse of position and authority. This law does not distinguish between a qualification or the severity of a crime at all. So it's just a criminal offence, and there's no question at all what the nature of this crime is. Is it serious or is it a marginal thing that was done out of humanity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u1999	And the last replica, dear colleague Marko Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2000	Dear colleague Pernar, I didn't mean to pick up the line for the reason I really like that particular political style of yours. But I'm replicating it in part because it seems to me that you haven't completely heard my exposure and the answer to one of the previous replicas. This is actually a legislative body of government and I respect your freedom of speech in the Croatian Parliament and as I have said before your own personal political style and expression. But I call on you, however, to stop being just populists and start doing your job as a parliamentary representative, propose amendments and laws that will improve the lives of all citizens in the Republic of Croatia, because this kind of destruction of work doesn't really help anyone. There are real debtors and needy and I am aware of your good intentions to help them, but I am sure and confident, and for this reason I have also run for the Croatian Parliament because we can do much better and much easier to help than from the site of actions how you like to call people from the scene of events like Andrija Jark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2001	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2002	I thank my colleagues from HDZ, but a HDZ colleague reads from paper, and I don't have to read from paper to say what I think. The thing is, I repeat this law again doesn't make a difference between what it is. Someone hired someone, e.g. He gave him a job because he felt sorry for this man and he knows he doesn't have a job, he knows he has a family, and he says, "Let's just say shut up and say, "Give him a job." Or as that case you mentioned with the country sharing in I don't know Djakova where, Mr. Glavas knows better. So we're all about not getting into the gravity of the crime at all. It doesn't get into whether it's a serious thing or not. We can find ourselves in a situation where, for example, someone has really traded influence on a marginal issue. Let's just say nothing comes to mind now, I wanted to mention Mr. Maras, but let's say that I asked Mr. Maras to put in front of a bicycle booth what his name is, I don't know what he'd call it, the one where the bike could be parked, and now Maras had an impact on someone in Parliament's secretariat, and they put it on it. It's kind of an influence trade. Because maybe if I hadn't had a relationship with Mr. Maras, that wouldn't have happened. But what am I saying? We can find ourselves in a situation that if there is a need for someone's political elimination that any gesture can be interpreted, any act can be interpreted in a way that falls within that category of criminal acts and actually people are kicked out of the election game even though they have the support of hundreds of thousands of voters. I mean, that would be a horror to me. And when the gentleman says I don't have any concrete suggestions, I do. And my concrete suggestion is that these amendments be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2003	Thank you very much. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, a distinguished colleague of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2004	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Article 238 of my court has been injured and I am asking you as vice president to warn your colleague Pernar in the future that he is addressing the MPs in the usual manner. On the other hand, it does not matter if a colleague Pernar reads from paper or speaks from his head because in this way you may be alluding to someone’s intelligence or abilities. So if a man prepares and reads from paper it's his right and I don't think it's any less valuable said than that man who speaks out of his head, especially as a colleague himself said this is the first term in the Parliament. And I noticed that when you speak to MPs, you speak to Mr. HDZ, Mr. SDP, if you don't know the last name, just tell your colleague and it will be enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2005	With respect to your objection, I believe there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure and we are moving on to an individual debate. First up, he's a colleague of Branimir's Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2006	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So as far as this bill is concerned, I would firstly touch preferential votes as regards the introduction and the possibility of introducing preferential votes into a legislative regulation relating to the local level. I believe that there is a need to achieve a uniform practice between legislation that regulates the choice of parliamentary representatives, so at national level, but also the law relating to the local level, or the Law on Local Elections. Mr Simic, in his opening statement by explaining his club's proposal, touched on these issues, but no matter what he touched on these issues, I would have been a little more specific in this debate in the first reading and asked the promoter to consider it when working on the completion of the final proposal or the proposal for a second reading law. So, under 1 I absolutely believe that preferential votes should also be put in place in local elections, starting with the municipality or the municipal council, the county council and the county assembly and knowing how much this council does in the city, the municipality and the county would be concrete. So I propose that it be introduced for the selection of the municipal council's obligation to elect a minimum of one preferential vote on the municipal council list. For a city council where the number of council members is much larger than the municipalities, significantly higher for the municipal councils there would be suggested by three preferential votes, and on the list for elections for the county assembly, he would propose five preferential votes as the number of council members in the county assembly moves around 50, slightly lower in smaller counties. In particular, in the County of Osijek-Baranja there is 51 councilors. So my proposal goes in this direction with not taking advantage of this opportunity and practically a few days of debate on this topic and the issue and that this already appears in the second reading as a proposal from the club of representatives of the Independent Lists to include this possibility of preferential votes in local elections on the lists of municipal council candidates, city councils and county councils. Furthermore, I would like to touch on this issue of rehabilitation. In the light of this proposal, it is said that voters of the political party are also not allowed to be a member of the representative bodies of the unit, nor of the municipal chief, mayor and mayor and their deputy to run for persons who, at the time of entry into force of the decision to call the elections, have not passed the rehabilitation deadlines under special law, who are sentenced to an unconditional prison sentence of at least six months or a provisional sentence of at least one year. So there's a list of crimes from the current criminal catalogue. Since today and yesterday, on several occasions, by my colleagues who spoke, regardless of party membership, we highlighted the case of Andra Vlahusic, the mayor of Dubrovnik, I mean really, and what was denied by the promoter, I really think that in the final proposal of this law or until the second reading of this matter should be corrected. I agree, however, that someone should not run according to the catalogue of the offences mentioned in the law, the issue of the length of the period, but that there must be some minimum legal restrictions which are deadlines and within which such a person could not run. But I don't think that's the best solution, that it's extreme, extremely restrictive, and that in this final proposal or the second reading proposal, it has to be corrected. For example, I believe that there should be a point where a sentence of at least six months of imprisonment is spoken of and that these persons should be applied, and to those persons who are subject to parole in some court proceedings that such restrictions should not apply. Because if the court rules and makes some conditional judgment, there are probably reasonable reasons why the court has not decided to impose a sentence, it has already given the possibility of a person exposed to criminal prosecution for a milder form of punishment, which in itself leads to the conclusion that it is not a serious or very serious criminal offence that such sanctions should be imposed. So, I appeal to the promoter that, because of the removal of any misunderstandings and doubts that such legal solutions are being introduced into the amendment of this Law on Local Elections, that they are related and are directed against the individual to respect this fact and that this thing in the final proposal of the law removes how no political party, no parliamentary representative would be able to justify that such a law has been made against a certain person in terms of political elimination, especially since local elections are at our door. Until the local elections we have practically seven, eight months, already practically some deadlines have begun to run in terms of the desire to run for certain persons in a particular local self-government unit where whoever wants to run for office is already six months before the election is called into that local self-government unit. I believe that this would be correct, so as not to violate both the essence and the reasons for the adoption of these amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government and that this remark should be respected because at the same time, all those who suspect are justifiably doubting the good part, that these amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government are specifically aimed at people from opposite political camps ahead of the upcoming local elections. I'd just like to look back on the law on the legal consequences of conviction of criminal records and rehabilitation. I suggest that this law should be amended, too, and I would like to point out when rehabilitation takes place for representatives in the hall, but also for the public. According to Article 19. The law on the legal consequences of condemnation of criminal records and rehabilitation is the 20-year term for those cases where, where a long-term prison is concerned, 15 years from the day on which the sentenced person is sentenced to 10 years in prison, 5 years from the day on which he or she is sentenced or released from one or more severe sentence. I would like to refer to this period of rehabilitation when it comes to 15 years from the day of the suspended sentence and withdraw a partnership from BiH. Let's say we have a case where a few weeks ago he was elected mayor of the Great Claduse Mr. Fikret Abdic after serving nearly 12 years in prison. And I stress that BiH, regardless of whether someone wanted to admit it or not, is an international protectorate and that there have been restrictions imposed on the issue of voting rights, passive or active and that they exist and now that I have spent more than 4 years in BiH from my own experience. I also believe that the international community felt that such strict restrictions should be imposed in order to introduce them into BiH, and since they did not introduce them in BiH, there is indeed a reason to consider the length of the deadline, these years, the occurrence of rehabilitation and in our particular case. In addition, I would also like to make more connections and ask the question and propose that the proposed person should contact and question what will happen to the parties against whom the criminal proceedings are being conducted in the event that they are legally convicted. Personally, I do not believe that the distinction between natural persons and legal persons can be made between persons who are running in the elections, whether as party candidates or not, without being able to close their eyes to legal entities, i.e. to parties who are being prosecuted for these offences to which the disabling of the candidacy and which are listed in the catalogue of criminal offences is concerned. I also believe that the political parties convicted of the offences mentioned in this catalogue must also bear the consequences of such sentences that the political parties convicted should be banned from the work of political action for at least one term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2007	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mr Branimir Glavas. We've got two lines reported. The first is the distinguished colleague, Mr Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2008	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Glavas, here I am going to repeat one more time that thesis I gave yesterday. So when we talk about elections and MPs in the Croatian Parliament, then local elections, solutions that can lead to the fact that the law establishes a principle of stronger or more beneficial. One preferential vote was still in order in my opinion and three preferential votes will be in this territorial structure and we come from the same constituency, the 4th constituency, you, Osijek-Baranja County has three times as many. It's just a fact, it's like that. Experience also teaches us that in all local elections so far, mostly the mayors of the municipalities, look at this little, mostly the mayors of the municipalities come from municipal centres because each municipality has a municipal centre and several other settlements, 7, 8 settlements. And if, perhaps with one preferential voice, it would still work, because those from smaller municipal settlements will find it difficult to reach that number of votes that those from the center can and perhaps let one vote do. But if we lead three votes and other engineering there, and all those who live in a municipality settlement with fewer inhabitants will find their way into the municipal council and the municipal council will decide on their fate. Here's my note to your discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2009	I would like to thank you for the replica of my distinguished colleague, Tomislav Zagar. The reply to the replica is the esteemed colleague Branimir Glavas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2010	And listen, political engineering during the elections is present and now that we have more and more experience with the way we vote, using this right of preferential vote, has started with European elections and past parliamentary elections, so here are the other parliamentary ones, I think that voters themselves are increasingly getting to know the way, technique and technology and the possibility of choosing that preferential vote so quickly, very quickly, very quickly, in the local elections. So electoral engineering is the problem of political parties and individual problems. Some parties will allow it in full swing and some may limit it. But that's not our problem, I think we should give the possibility in a representative body like the county assembly with 51 council members that we should give at least five candidates to be chosen by preferential votes. It's not much, it's only about ten percent of the total number of councilmen. It's about the county council. The city council also numbers 30 or 35 councilors, to give a choice, to give the option of selecting three preferential councilors, or candidates to be elected by preferential votes. It also moves around 10% of elected councilors, especially in such a local unit, I think it is feasible and there are enough recognizable faces in such a unit of local self-government as the city, that they know each other and that it is possible. Also for the municipal council, I also think it's not much of a councilman because it's somewhere even below 10% of the council members who are elected and I think it should be introduced this time. Is one or three or five, let's say a little bit more extensive and more pronoun and we'll all discuss it together, get to some of the highest quality numbers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2011	I would like to thank you for your reply to the replica of the esteemed colleague Branimir Glavas. The next call came from a distinguished counterpart, Mr Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2012	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In your presentation, you proposed the introduction of preferential votes in the local and regional self-government elections. I will also want to point out the need to balance legislation and election processes at the local, regional and state level, and that is where I imitate you in thinking, and that technical shortcomings or obstacles should not be an obstacle to the introduction of such a model and that further debate shows whether it is feasible and I think it is feasible. Because what we have from the HSS and that's what our colleagues said yesterday in the club's statement on behalf of the club, it bothers that it remains the 10% threshold at the state level, and that's probably how it would have been introduced at the local level. The 10% threshold of the total number of votes that fell for the list. Namely, these three preferential votes, likely to be voted for by the Croatian Parliament, will not reflect the voter's will and will be a voter fraud because votes will dissipate. Let's say I prefer candidates who are 10th, 12th and 14th on the list and the most votes will be normal because the most famous person is usually to wear the lists and the presidents of the big parties will be second, third of his closest associates. Although my candidate will receive 4, 4.5 thousand votes in the tenth place, the third by number or fourth by number of votes from all candidates on the list. He won't go to Parliament because he won't cross the 10% threshold. And then the next one will be the one with 500, 600 or 1000 votes. And that's unfair to me, and that part should change, too. If it's not going to break the threshold, it needs to be reduced to 5%. Because if a list takes 5% to cross the threshold, why does a candidate need 10% and not 5%? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2013	I thank my distinguished colleague, Mr Davor Vlaovic, for the replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Mr Branimir Glavas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2014	I have no experience like you. Let's say I was the first on the list in the 4th constituency and I was elected to the Croatian Parliament, but also by the preferential votes on that HDSSB list, I also received the highest number of votes. If someone under me had gotten more votes than me, he'd have skipped me in that case. Therefore, I do not share your opinion and I believe that the 10% threshold is not that big, the bigger problem for smaller parties is to prevent or achieve that result of the 5% electoral threshold. If you cross and your party crosses the 5% electoral threshold, you will be convinced that you will have one, two, or three candidates, or persons on your list who will cross that 10% threshold. At my list, as I recall, Mr. Šišljagic passed the 10% threshold, so we two crossed that threshold. I got more than Mr. Šišljagic, so I picked up that preferential mandate. If Mr. Šišljagic had, by chance, received more preferential votes from me, it would have been confusing for me to be first in my life. Therefore, I think that this remark does not fit very well in what you said, and especially in the local environments, especially in local environments where local self-government units and very small environments, where people know each other especially in municipalities and also in cities. And the City of Osijek is a city of 100,000 people but it's not too big. We all know each other more or less. And also for the county councils, these counties are not too big, ours is over 300 thousand inhabitants, you have a county of 100,000 inhabitants, and of 200 thousand residents, and I think people know each other and should introduce those preferential votes. I think that's enough of that 10% threshold.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2015	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mr Branimir Glavas, for his reply to the replica. This is what we used up the replicas after this debate. And the next individual debate was reported by a distinguished colleague, Mr. Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2016	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. When laws are passed in the Croatian Parliament, it is always good that they are primarily not intended for someone and it would be even better if they are not and there is no feeling that they are intended for someone or to be written for someone to make it impossible in something that is their legitimate right at this point under the applicable legislation. So if someone has already mentioned it in the debate we have a moment to apply for elections you can no later than 6 months before the local elections which will be in a month and a few days and no one will be able to run in another city unless we have a place to live, unless you live in the middle. We come here in this situation with amendments to this law that may happen for the next month, that we will influence the elections in one city. And justifiably, after that and a colleague of Grmoj yesterday from MOST said that the law is passed de facto because one party nominates a man who, in his opinion or opinion of the Most should not be a candidate for the mayor of Dubrovnik and help the other party de facto so that he is not a candidate. People today in Croatia really rightly call this law Lex Vlahusic, or a law written for the sake of a single man, because it is obviously impossible to win the elections by MOST and HDZ. And this is how they try to make it impossible for a man to run. What is even more devastating in this situation is that man got a powerful verdict in 2015, 6 months conditional because the city was not damaged but he did something he shouldn't have done and he was at this point in the rehabilitation process. Since it is a 3-year rehabilitation, it will expire at the end of 2018. And as if he never did that crime will be kept on record in the Republic of Croatia. So a year and a few days after the election under this bill, a man would be treated as if he had never committed a crime in Croatia. So we even pass this law limited to one man at this time only for one election because in 2020, Mr Vlahusic and under this law will be able to run for mayor of Dubrovnik again if he wants to, or in 2021. Build your rating, build your own I would say political work in this way using the ruling majority to qualify and to deal with people is not good. And in this way I think that we should consider colleagues from MOST and take into account the examples that exist in life whether or not someone can run for office and whether it is right or not, or not, from their point of view whether Mr. Kristic or someone else will have a simpler situation in the local elections in Dubrovnik. Because I'm convinced it can fall primarily in the Constitutional Court. On the other hand, what I am also interested in, which is why there are no shifts or suggestions, and today we are also talking about preferential votes in local elections. My buddy at the MOST said it was complicated, and others are pushing for it to be. I think it has nothing to do with complexity, but simply that we have created certain standards in Croatia and that it will eventually be at both local and European elections and parliamentary elections. So we'll adopt the standards when we adopt them. What worries me more is that under the cover of further democratisation and the introduction of more preferential votes will de facto not change much. You still won't be able to be a candidate if here's a fellow MOST thinks they're limiting party leadership in having some crucial influence again you won't be able to be a candidate unless you're willing to do what you propose. That's why I stand for it again and again, as I am saying yesterday during the second law today, that citizens should also be taken into account that they have a direct representative in the county, city or municipality, or the municipal and city council that would represent them directly. It means direct democracy is being introduced here, and people know what their representative is. I am convinced that it will eventually also be in Croatia, but I am also convinced that if it is in the next round of debate, the club of representatives of MOST will not be MOST. Because I don't think Most is in the interest of that. And that's where you'd show your MOST colleagues if you really wanted further democratisation. And why isn't MOST in the interest? Because of what they will be very difficult to have at some point someone who will have majority support in a particular constituency. But that would be the right thing to do, so then I think that maybe the MOST would be the most convincing legislator of such a law, to say we want election units, constituencys, then see how many votes Mr. Bulj will get in the constituency in the Cetina region. Is he what the citizens of the Cetina region want more or do they want someone else? Or Mr. Simic in Osijek? Let's see if Mr. Vrdoljak or Mr. Šimić will then be elected to Osijek. So these are steps in my opinion to help people decide directly who will be their representative, because also this way maybe someone at the Most has earned that mandate directly. But as we heard yesterday, Mr. Bulj says that on the MOST platform, he entered the Assembly not because he wanted to say one of the representatives of the Most individual to enter the Croatian Parliament. It is to me something that could convince the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that MOST really wants direct democracy. Introduce electoral districts regardless of what is very likely in either of these constituencies MOST will not have the first man because it was not in these elections now. 10% is not the same thing as 35 or 34 and probably not in the future. But then they would do a mission and do something useful for Croatian citizens. The SDP representative club is very likely to have a similar position during the debate on such a proposal, but of course we should discuss it only when it comes to the table. Don't just do what's right for you right now, but do something that might be useful in the long term for the Republic of Croatia and its citizens. And then you can expect support from the opposition. If you really care about the Croatian Parliament making laws that we will all agree on and we will have a real impression in Croatia that the Croatian Parliament is deciding on something. We'll see how that goes in the second reading, and on the other hand, I'm not and I'm not gonna support a law like this because I really have the impression that he's doing it for one man. I have the impression that it's working quickly and for the sake of course of creation... I've pointed that out a few times already. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'd like these changes to fit, so what I'm saying isn't just a preferential vote is okay. But one in fifty or three out of fifty in the city of Zagreb really means nothing. But if every Zagreb quarter had one representative, it would mean something because people in Maximir would vote for someone who lives in Maximir and who represents them in the City Assembly or anywhere else. And if you really want to make such changes, you want to allow people not to reform or in principle further democratisation of electoral legislation, then suggest that people know who their representative is.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2017	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mr. Gordan Maras. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Mr. Marko Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2018	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Maras. Well, you've already mentioned Mr. Vlahusic two or three times in this debate, and you're obsessed with him, not us. We didn't mention him at all in the debate. Well, it's not our fault that he did what he did. In theory, the law could be called lex shrub if it were to commit an act and it was forbidden to run for local elections. So, lex Vlahusic is not standing at all because he is the only mayor who is in this place with the indictment and with that punishment. So, theoretically, that law could be called anything if these people were convicted by that crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2019	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mr. Mark Sladolev, for the replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2020	Well, a colleague of Sladolov can't be called because of what you said yourself and in the debate you mentioned that he was the only one in Croatia. So then you can't convince anyone at all, and you have a man who's interested in running down and being mayor and was quite active in NGOs in Dubrovnik who would like to become mayor. So that's one through one, a matter of perception and impression is such a thing after yesterday's colleague Grumoja said it. Like not quite clear enough today, but he said. Here's what the media reported today, but that's not good. So we can't do laws tailored here at the will of a political option for a case that exists in the Republic of Croatia. And on the other hand, after all that, the man was elected by the citizens of Dubrovnik to be their mayor again. So you know better what Dubrovnik needs from the Most River, Osijek, Sinj, Solin, Zagreb, you know better than they do for the citizens of the city of Dubrovnik. So don't patronize the city of Dubrovnik and the citizens of the city of Dubrovnik, they know best how hard it will be to punish Vlahusic or not, and whether they will choose him again or not. Especially for crimes like this. I am not talking about something that has caused great damage to the city of Dubrovnik, which has been done by someone who really shouldn't be a candidate in any way because it would violate certain social relations that we have in the Republic of Croatia but Mr. Vlahusic, after all that you are talking about today and why you insist and the changes in the law have chosen him as mayor. So what do we do now? Now you want to get him out of the race so you can't choose him again.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2021	I thank my esteemed colleague Gordan Maras for his reply to the replica. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Mr. Sinisha Varga, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2022	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's an offer with today's and yesterday's replicas, that is to say, Mr. Ivan Pernar's conversations and presentations, and now on my colleague Maras, I've been able to study the court practice of de facto two almost identical cases. We have the case of Mr. Vlahusic, Mayor of Dubrovnik, who was accused of signing something he shouldn't have and we have a colleague today, Minister Oleg Butkovic of Novi Vinodolski, who also signed something he shouldn't have. They both defended themselves almost when the court files were read and it appears that the defence was based almost on the same thing, that it was a pile of paper, signed maps that were signed without reading and the defence was respected in the case of Mr. Butkovic and he was cleared of the charges, and in the case of Mr. Vlahusic, it was not accepted and he was legally convicted. It is an unequal caselaw that Mr. Pernar spoke of and that is something that I believe must not be a phenomenon in Croatian society and the Assembly must point out and act even though we are talking about the trio of the government, we all know our constitutional roles, but this unequal case law has an impact on these talks that we have here today regarding the amendments to the addition of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2023	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mr. Sinishi Varga, for the replica. Replication response, distinguished colleague Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2024	Thank you very much. A colleague of Varg you probably also under the influence of a different legal system because you are there and adults have a uniformity of practice as something that should be. This is unfortunately not the case in Croatia. The courts judge and they should be held. The problem here is something else, the problem is that MOST colleagues wouldn't mind if Butkovic had been convicted of what was being burdened on him and voted for him as minister. That wouldn't be a problem. So you can be a minister, you can't even be a mayor. So the minister can be elected, the mayor can't even be a candidate. So we must introduce the same standards, someone has already said this today, for all public functions and for all those representing Croatian citizens, and it is also about the Croatian government. I also think as far as the parties should not support not those, a colleague from Slavonski Brod of HDZ spoke, I think his name is Simic, those who say we are waiting for the power of judgment. The man confessed to everything. So Mr. Kirin confessed to everything, and later on, he separated his trial and now he doesn't admit it, and then he's accusing the FIMI MEDIA of being now and in the same way he's defending himself as Sanader. It'll probably end up the same way in the end. So he'll get his verdict. But HDZ doesn't mind that he has twice defended the colours of the HDZ in Virovitica, but here they now support in the spirit that people who are running for mayor and who are running for mayor that they can't run for parole for six months, no matter what they're almost done with this probationary period, or they won't even be on criminal record anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2025	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Mr. Gordan Maras, for his reply to the replica. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Mr. Ivan Pernar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2026	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd just like to look around, here's the message from a reporter from Dubrovnik, and it's in the note, and it says Mr. Pernar, I'm the one who discovered this affair with Vlahusic. And he says what happened, he says the money is some as far as I understand the city, but the money is all back in town and Vlahusic's verdict says he tells me that the damage is essentially zero kuna but that he, like, let down the voters, and that's why he's eventually being sentenced to some kind of parole or whatever. So it wasn't some real big crime. What I would like to point out is this, and this is that although colleagues from HDZ and the Most give some of their reasons for the current law in informal talks, they actually know very well why this law is being passed, and this law is being repeated so that one man can be kicked out of the race. And so I'm giving full support to my colleague, Varga, who pointed out the problem to say the inequality of court rulings on the one hand, and on the other hand, even if you get a marginal thing means a guy, not to set a concrete example, but it means that you get a punishment to peel potatoes for two days, you still won't be able to run until that rehabilitation period of three years is over. So I think that the bill would have to say, as you would say, different if it were introduced by force, that it differs the weight of the work itself, not that it says that you can no longer go to elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2027	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mr. Ivan Pernar, for the replica. The answer to the line, dear colleague Mr. Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2028	Thank you very much. Mr. Pernar, here's my proposal now from this debate of yours, you said there was no harm, I don't think it serves the mayor's honor regardless of what he did harm that he did anything that didn't comply with the law or procedure. It's not something a mayor should brag about. But a concrete proposal to the colleagues of the Most for the next debate, let them specify that someone who has received a suspended sentence of more than three years in prison or more can not be nominated and ranked by the Penal Code, whether there was any damage, how much damage, etc., means the courts judge the penalties. The penalty is not the same for six months and the penalty is not the same when someone gets the same as they got the former diameter ten or seven or eight years. So if we have a ranking by the severity of the crime, then there's no need to rank it into certain categories at all because then you're going to get into a situation like a fellow coat of arms said yesterday that because of a push or something, someone also won't be able to run. But if the sentence is prison and the court has ordered it for more than three years, then it's an act that really doesn't deserve someone to run for the head of the local self-government unit, no matter what crime it is. So that's my proposal to remove suspicion that it's done for one man and remove suspicion that you're going to punish someone for something his fellow citizens wouldn't blame in his local self-government unit. If a prison sentence is prevented for more than three years or someone has been convicted in such a way, then let him not have the right to be a candidate for a local self-government unit for the mayor or mayor.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2029	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mr. Gordan Maras, for his reply to the replica. And the last one for a replica of this debate came from a distinguished colleague, Mr. Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2030	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You mentioned your colleague Maras' preferred voice and, of course, various choices in which elections can be held. Of course, the preferred voice is what can be best and nothing in my opinion would also be to have the Ministry of Administration well analyzed and to carry out technical opportunities to see the realities as you know that same day are elections for councils and mayors and regional administrations of the county and for county assemblies also for mayors. However, when you speak, you have mentioned the counties now, and it is possible that these variants, too, are possible and can be within the county. If a county has 500 to be an indicative 17, 18 thousand one parliamentary representative so many voters indicatively when a total of 151 MPs are divided and, of course, it can be done by county. Let her have five MPs, let her have 10, let her have 15, but the indicative representative would have the same weight, the same mandate would have weight. When you talk about districts, when you talk about local self-government you said that from every district it would be good either for every local community or neighborhood. Well, personally, since I've been here three, four times, and now I'm the chairman of the local committee, and nobody put me in politics, but I've got local committees in my village three times, and I'm proud of that because I'm on my own, and I wasn't put on a list by the head, of course, and it's also positive to go back to the two-ways, if it should be from the highest level if you think it means being a regional representation. It could be 70 parliamentary deputies, 70 to be 71, and 71 to be in another home because of regional equality. There's a lot of this variant, but that's a lot more serious to think about. This is quite another proposal to go to and your debates may be good for the Minister of Administration to be introduced in the future proposal because it will definitely go to changes to the entire Law on Elections both locally and to the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2031	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Mr. Miri Bulj, for the replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague, Mr. Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2032	Thank you very much. If you are going to suggest this then you will really convince me that there is a public interest ahead of the party because the fact is what I was telling you earlier, no one will be able to tell you in Croatia as in the case of Vlahusic that it is in your favor. So here at Vlahusic, everyone will tell you that because you have a candidate down there for mayor who aspirations to a similar electoral body. So these are not HDZ voters who voted for Vlahusic. If you weren't such a strong candidate on that scene, then your candidate would have a much better chance than he'll have now. This is how the HDZ candidate and Vlahusic will probably enter the second round, as was the last time. In the event that we would suggest election units, no one in Croatia would be able to object to you doing this for yourself because it probably does not suit MOST as a party. But after all, they would convince people that you're doing something that's in their interest. I'll back you up and accept that proposal if it goes that way and I hope that's the way it's gonna be. And I will fight within my party to have my party accept such amendments to the legislation because I would really like such a direct democracy that people know who they are. Now that we have a preferential vote and you've got 10 thousand votes, me who's got almost 14 is not the same because we don't know who these people are and I want to know, that where I live, where I work, where I can contribute to people telling me, yes, you're my representative and that that's how they talk to me because there's only one representative from every constituency or constituency. What's the difference? I agree that they need to stay on lists and districts, and it needs to be eliminated somehow. But do it and we'll back you up, or I'll back you up, and I'll make sure my party backs you up, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2033	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mr. Gordan Maras, for his reply to the replica. We have exhausted the replicas of this debate and the following has appeared for an individual debate, a distinguished colleague, Mr. Maro Kristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2034	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. Through discussions on these two laws yesterday and today in the Croatian Parliament, we were best able to see how much it cared about the regulated country and combating corruption of crime and all that this rich country full of potential has led to the poverty of the past 25 years. We could see those MPs who understand how sensitive the political stage is and who understand that this is the zero place of tolerance to the most difficult forms of criminal acts but we could also see those advocates who support that murderers, rapists, thieves can, of course, run and conduct honorable duties such as the parliamentary representative, mayor, mayor and other duties of the council in cities and counties. I find it tragic in fact that among us are people who have such attitudes and who call it good to commit crime because it is worth it. We're just doing it with public money, let's not do it in private companies because I'm sure they wouldn't hire such people in their private companies. Of course, they call it political persecution because they simply cannot call it another name. Without going a little loathsome on one of those crimes committed by the Mayor of Dubrovnik, which I claim to be, and I don't know whether this law applies to him at all, and this is, in my opinion, the most serious crime, it's a crime of abuse and position and authority in the mayor's position. So when someone drags their hand into the budget of a city, the even most famous city in Croatia with the richest budget, then it's a tragedy even bigger. I agree absolutely that it is necessary to distinguish crimes by their character and according to this and the severity and seriousness of the crime, to set criteria for the ban on running, and therefore we have opened the debate so that everyone can make their constructive proposals. Calling for an assessment of constitutionality in my opinion is a clear fear of losing positions and political protection enjoyed by such individuals. In addition, of course, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia has been made possible, the possibility of confiscation of certain powers, i.e. restrictions on running for certain persons who have been convicted and wronged because of dishonest or particularly dishonest actions, on the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. Such a provision also existed in the Law that is in force, so of course the Constitutional Court did not cancel it at that time. I think it's high time that ordinary citizens of this country are at least equal to us who enjoy privileges. Where individual criminal laws relating to those acting in public functions are not applied in practice. Then I suggest we abolish those criminal laws. There's no need for such criminal laws to exist. Let those who have engaged in wicked acts keep on stealing. Just don't be hypocritical at the same time, making it impossible for that poor cleaning lady who works for 2,500 thousand kunas, whose monthly fee is as much as that of some of us to pay for the official trip to the Parliament session so she can't run because she may have stolen bread in the pastry and misery to feed her children. Finally, I will say that this proposal does not deprive anyone's constitutional rights because it is fully in line with criminal laws, so no person who will be subject to sanctions will permanently restrict his rights, but only during the execution of the fines and the duration of the rehabilitation deadlines, which is fully in accordance with the law and in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. I think that all honorable people should support those sitting here in this Croatian Parliament should support such proposals in a way that they get involved and make their proposals to improve this law and I call on them to do so through this duration of public debate. Because we saw that by yesterday our main criterion for driving people from public office in this assembly was whether someone's grandmother was in partisans or someone might have worn a Ustasha cap in his youth or someone reported a fake address. And to the individuals in this assembly now and the most severe forms of crime represent nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2035	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Mr. Maro Christic. We have several replicas on your exhibit. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Mr. Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2036	Thank you very much. Mr. Kristic, in your debate, you have once again convinced me that this is about a specific case and that the law is passed because of a specific case. Because if you are all the time speaking the most difficult forms, the most difficult forms, so tell me, how did the court decide that a person would get six months of probation if it was the most difficult form of a crime anyone could commit? So 6 months probation, and I told you, during 2018, a man will wipe himself out of the records like nothing ever happened. And yet, now that you're standing in that position, so you're telling your fellow citizens that they're basically unable to judge because they chose the mayor with such a verdict. So you, as a representative from Dubrovnik, explain to your fellow citizens that they are unable to judge and judge who to choose as your mayor, but you will decide on their behalf and allow them not to vote for the man next time. Well, I don't think that's right for your fellow citizens, you underestimate them. You are the first to fight in essence to allow Vlahusic to run for office in the next election. Tell us now in public in front of the Croatian public who sees us here that you want Vlahusic to run and beat him in the elections. Not by law, but by winning the election if you think that's possible. On the other hand, there are many who have done damage to the Croatian budget, the City of Dubrovnik budget, the county that has not committed a criminal offence. Let's say there are some opportunities to win claims from individual investors who have spent hundreds of millions of kunas in Croatia, not to realize their investment and that tomorrow City of Dubrovnik, County or Croatia is paying money because these investors have not realised what was already agreed. What about the damage that's not criminal but the damage that's going to be measured by hundreds of millions of kunas maybe?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2037	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mr. Gordan Maras, for the replica. Reply to the replica, distinguished colleague Mr. Maro Kristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2038	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'll just repeat the two thesis we've been going through since this morning. First of all, when proposing this law, we absolutely did not take the lead in denying the possibility of running for one person, but we wanted to restore the pummeled confidence of the citizens in the electoral system. The fact that you think this applies to Mr. Andre Vlahusic that's your problem, that's not my problem. I'm not going to interpret the verdicts made by the institutions of the rule of law, I personally have had enough to commit one such crime I would never run for any public office anywhere, anywhere, anywhere. And if tomorrow happens to me any judgment such as that, I will stand down for absolutely the same second. That's all I can tell you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2039	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mr. Maric, for his reply to the replica. Next replica, distinguished colleague Mr. Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2040	Thank you very much. A colleague here all the time stretches that the Independent List MOST will have a mayoral candidate mostly from fellow Maras. Since you from Dubrovnik have seen me, it would be good to explain if there really is, I don't know about this person, whether there are any independent candidate lists for mayor, is that by all your conversation, speeches, replication by colleagues Maras mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2041	I thank my esteemed colleague, Miri Bulju, for the replica. Reply to the replica, distinguished colleague Mr. Maro Kristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2042	Dear colleague Bulj, I can only say that when this law was passed, it was absolutely not aimed at Mr Vlahusic's head, but precisely because of the fact that our colleagues sitting on the right were not handling moral principles when running for office, but they were supporting those who were legally convicted of such a law had practically come out of our club as a proposal. Not because it was aimed at Mr Vlahusic but precisely to raise a level of morality in Croatia's long-drawn politics. As for anyone's candidacy in the local elections in Dubrovnik City, it's still early to talk about it. I was a candidate in the past elections, I faced Mr. Vlahusic and the other candidates. I didn't get into the second round. I think I've done my duty correctly, I've given him my hand, if he can run another time if I'm a candidate, of course we'll face each other. If this law accidentally attaches to him, I am sorry, I am not the one who committed the crime of abuse of office and authority, it was committed by Mr Vlahusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2043	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mr. Maric, for his reply to the replica. The next one applied for a replica, a distinguished colleague, Mr. Marko Vesligaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2044	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's to short notice, there's only a lot of talk here today in this house about morality by a single political option. But you know all of us who deal with politics, all of us who belong to political options everywhere might find some kind of rotten apple. And there are also persons in you who have also, who can also be attributed to just this kind of work that stands in this bill. That's why I'd just like to say that we don't have to be overly moralized about it. We all agree on that. Sir, you mentioned at one point that someone was protecting murderers, rapists, etc. In the area where I come from, I can't even express myself so close that I can run for any function, not even a member of the local board can pass. Be assured of that. So maybe a little more there and independent doses of one self-criticity nothing else. And there's one more thing I'd like to do, a little bit of going over the subject of this, there's a lot of mention of the topic of local committees, so generally local self-government, I agree, Mr. Bulj mentioned the first touch of citizens with one form of government. There's been a lot of trouble. I've been trying to build a relationship with these local committees ever since I came to the mayor. So we've secured for local committees an item in the budget, we regularly hold meetings, but you know what? People are losing their interest because people are aware that they have no influence on decision-making and they lose their interest terribly. My own personal opinion that political parties should be limited to running people in the election for local committees in the first place. Let people vote right for people because that's the only way in a small village, imagine that when it comes from HDZ, from the SDP, from MOST, that's the house to the house. So they only have one interest in building a water line, building a road. So that's their goal, that's their interest. So it's better to vote for people and somehow get the political parties out of the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2045	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Mr. Mark Welligaj, for the replica. Reply to the replica, distinguished colleague Mr. Maro Kristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2046	Well, here you are, Mr. Representative, right through your debate, the best way to prove that this law that we've passed has not been applied to one person. You said there may be some among us who are subject to this law. Neither I nor my colleagues are afraid of it. If any of us are, I'm sure if any of us are subject to this Penal Code, I'm sure they'll have enough moral value to step down in time not to be in a position to eliminate the law. Because among us are all honorable and responsible people. And as for your other suggestions here, I invite you to engage in a public debate of 30 days. We have a second reading of the law ahead, a thematic session ahead. The public debate has so much space to coordinate and catalog criminal offences, to determine the proportionality of criminal offences compared to the ban on running. So here's an invitation for everyone to talk and debate all day. That's what we're calling for and you're insisting on one person to pass the law because of it. Well, that's kind of bad for me, and it's kind of not appropriate for this assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2047	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mr. Marie Kristic, for his reply to the replica. With this, we have exhausted the replicas of this debate. Following an individual debate, the esteemed colleague, Mr. Ivan Pernar, reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2048	Thank you, Chairman. I just wanted to ask because I have an individual and final word on behalf of the club, can I do everything from the pay phone or do I have to go from 10 minutes to 5 minutes from the pay phone? If I could get off the phone, you'd be very grateful.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2049	An individual debate from the scene, on behalf of the club outside the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2050	Well, then I'll speak from the scene for 10 minutes, so I'll move forward. Thank you. I'd like to say there's a lot of debate here about the Electoral Law because the elections ultimately define who makes the government. However, I often mention that the real power in this country is not us who are elected representatives of the people but other structures beyond the borders of our country that no one in the elections has chosen. And that's the biggest absurd. How is it possible that decisions in our country and our country are made by people who never went to the polls? And in the last government before this we had a situation that a man from Canada who actually speaks very well to us, who doesn't even remember whether he said more than two extended sentences, who got zero votes in the election was installed as prime minister. I think that the government in Croatia is in the hands of banking and corporate circles that dictate money and capital, and that all of us sitting here are consumer goods and are always being sacrificed. Otherwise, whatever government changes ultimately, it all comes down to moving the figures that are in the supposed position of the government to move all the blame on them. In my book that money or money mechanics I don't remember both of them writing, I wrote that Milanovic would be sacrificed and Karamarko would be sacrificed and that fate would be the same for each other. Then 5 years ago, or 4 years ago, it seemed impossible, but after only a little time, that's exactly what happened. The fate of Prime Minister Plenkovic as well as the future prime minister, who will come from the ranks of the SDP when and if he comes, will be the same. In fact, the financial system based on a loan that destroys and destroys us will never take responsibility for the problems in the state and will always transfer blame to individuals, to politicians. And the same media that is today raising Andrej Plenkovic for a few years will bring him down and say you're guilty of not having an economic recovery, you're to blame for what people are digging through the trash, you're to blame for these actions, etc. Although the real guilt was not on it, neither on Oreshkovic, nor on Milanovic, nor on their representatives. All these people were actually just implementing a policy that was predetermined by someone else. That is why I told Mr Plenkovic that he is not actually a statesman and leader, although I would like him to be both, but only one bankruptcy manager. Ladies and gentlemen, regardless of who came to the mayoral or mayoral functions, all cities and all municipalities except Dubrovnik and Dubrovnik-Neretva County are cramping in debts and loans, and consequently they will all be left without property and the real decisions they will make will be in a smaller and smaller range and eventually will be aware of the mere administrative matters. I'm sorry that we as representatives here will never have a debate on issues I'm talking about but exclusively about the technical way of choosing so-called. formal authorities, because the informal one we don't see on TV cameras and I've been deprived of the opportunity to discuss with these people. I would love with people standing over Plenkovic who really make decisions about our country, I would like to harass them here for a pay phone. I'd like them to sit here and replicate and give them a speech. But they're not here. So I'm talking in vain now and even when I'm talking to Mr. Plenkovic, I'm actually talking empty again because he's not the one who decided to carry out secret actions, he's already decided someone else to hide the problem of credit default and protect the foreign banks that satiate our country. As far as my colleagues from MOST are concerned, I believe that they have good intentions, but I want to tell Mr. Maro Christic who will run for the next election for the mayor of Dubrovnik and where Andro Vlahusic will not be able to run unless the law is done because of Mr. Vlahusic then I can gallantly put a provision in this law that the new provisions apply to those persons who are punished after this law enters into force. In this way, such acts would be sanctioned in the future and Mr Vlahusic, who currently appears to only apply this law, would not be expelled from the election race. I would also like to point out one more thing, those who rise politically in a way that in political processes and through amendments to the Election Law, rather than by democratic means and through the will of any party or people, come to power in the same way by planting and constructed processes, and will fall from power. Mr. Brkic, you are the chairman, your predecessor Karamarko has just been used by methods of coming to power that eventually brought him down. Such methods for each are judgment and you are all aware of it, but yet you are not aware that sooner or later all the methods you use against the political opposition and your inexperiences will eventually be used against yourselves. And finally, as we argue and argue with each other here, our country's sovereign debt is growing rapidly, so will the privatisation of our country, and so will the impoverishment of our people, and there is no debate on these issues, ladies and gentlemen, because these issues are forbidden. The decisions made by MOST, which are issued for the hard-working honest-minded and people who have a clean conscience and clean morale, mean that they sat together with Tim Oreshkovic when they sold our homeland on the phone can't be considered honorable. However, the crime is high treason or putting our country in a direct position of dependence on another country has been removed from the list of criminal offences. By putting or changing the role of the Central Bank of our CNB in the exchange office and putting our country in a direct dependent position on foreign money sources, in our case the euro, has been made high treason because we are directly placed in a dependent position on other countries or the Central European Bank. These crimes, including privatisation, which is actually a mass and collective robbery as well as borrowing on behalf of a people who profit least from it as well as a totally missed exchange rate policy and executive law and all that other things are ladies and gentlemen doing according to the law. One day as it is said today about Hitler that everything he did was done by law so will be spoken and that everything Hanžekovic did seemed legal. The biggest thieves in our society and these are bankers led by Prkom, Lukovic and the rest of the team will never be found under such mounted processes and in such charges. And they just sucked the biggest money out of our country. Instead, there will be colleagues from all sides of all parties on the defendant's benches. One by one, the public will appear to be a great thief and cause of the problem, although as I have mentioned, the main cause of all the problems in our country is elsewhere. Let me give you a picture or one picture of the reality of Ivo Sanader in court was charged and convicted and later the verdict was that he received a bribe from a bank banker from Hypo Bank so that our state would be in charge of the bank. However, the banker who testified in court that he was giving him money has never been convicted. According to the Penal Code, the crime is not only about taking bribes but also about giving bribes. And it's clear that a superior hand is always the one that gives because that hand is always above the one that receives. The hand giving was the hand of the banker, and the banker asked for the privilege and favor of Prime Minister Ivo Sanader and the banker was never convicted, on the contrary, he was a witness. I believe that everything we witness today as well as yesterday is one of the most common farces and a detour from the real problems in our country, and these problems can only be solved by changing the National Bank Act and putting the National Bank into function of our people as an amendment to the Law on Mandatory Relations and repealing the currency clause. Mr. Chairman, I can continue my speech from the pay phone now, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2051	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Mr. Ivan Pernar. You can sit down. I would beg you, Mr. Pernar, in this debate of yours, you've had elements of visionaryism and Nostradamus's prophet but I would ask you this House of the High is not exactly a place where we're going to muddle in such a light way and talk so uglyly about certain persons. We are not invited here to be judges, there are institutions of the state that will decide. So, please and once again I appeal to you let's not talk about certain people in such an ugly way. Regardless of your personal opinion, you are a representative of the Croatian people in the highest House of Representatives of the Croatian People and let us not send bad messages from here, bad patterns of conduct. I'm asking you one more time for that. Although you just promised my colleague the predecessor that you would no longer repeat it, here I hope that for the third time God helps. For this debate on replicas, a distinguished colleague of the representatives of Mrs Grozdana Peric appeared, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2052	Thank you, Vice President. Here I have been patiently listening to these squadrons for several days, and as a new representative, I would just like to order exactly what you said earlier. The Constitution therefore states that the Croatian Parliament is a representative body of citizens and holder of the legislative authority in the Republic of Croatia, Article 71. So, all of us here who are now representing our people need to stick to this very article of the law and not muddle this Reverend House. Also do not muddle the citizens who have chosen us and who have given us confidence that we are changing here what we believe should be improved. So if we're legalists, and I guess we're legalists when we're here, that we all want to do better in the functioning of the state, and you can't in that way characterise some people who lived in some time period, do what they could do best, too, and some of them are sanctioned in one way or another. Who says tomorrow we won't be for anything sanctioned no matter what kind of crime it was. God forbid no one ever does that. However, we are the ones who must respect the laws of this country and which, in turn, we vote. Also when you talk about banks, banking systems, etc. I'm actually amazed at what time you live. And sometimes when this system of values was created, you have to know that there were reasons why something was going on, and also if you don't think something like that should exist, then I'm actually surprised that you even competed to be a part of this Home because there's obviously no way to legally solve it through the system. So, I'm sorry you missed the activity you're doing now.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2053	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Assembly representative Grozdana Peric, on the replica. The reply to the replica, the esteemed colleague, Mr. Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2054	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to say that we live at a time when telling the truth means insulting, but I will give only one example, the Croatian Parliament cannot change the CNB law without the EU's consent. If the EU, or the European Central Bank, does not give its consent, we can want to do whatever we want here, but we cannot make these changes, which means that we are not the ones who can make the decision but are directly subject to the decisions made by someone else, which means that decisions, or let's say, of the CNB Act, are essentially no longer being made in this House, but are being made according to instructions, by the directives on the outside. And those directives are in the interests of foreign banks that keep our country under monetary occupation. That's why our country and our people live in debt slavery and our citizens in severe poverty. Madam with HDZ you, you think that I am embarrassing the Croatian Parliament by saying that the Croatian Parliament is not the holder of the government in this country and that the country is managed outside, however, it is much more embarrassing that people are digging through the trash, standing in line in front of the soup kitchen, begging on the streets and busloading young people out of the country. Unfortunately, my dear, because of all these crimes that have ended with a crime of high treason, you and your colleagues from the HDZ party have no sense of shame or responsibility. If you had shame and responsibility today, you would not be at the Croatian Parliament and Croatian MPs, who, instead of representing the interests of their citizens, represent the interests of their employers, or the heads of their parties who give them directives and instructions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2055	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Mr. Ivan Pernar, for his reply to the replica. The next call came a distinguished colleague, Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2056	Mr. Pernar, when you say MOST is made an honest man, we have nothing to do or not to make, and no one is without sin, no one can throw himself with stone. So since you were in HDZ and I was, but the same day Sanader came to power, I started an independent list and all that time when you believed, I won't blame you, because you resent us that Tim Oreshkovic was Prime Minister or Mr. Varga, who was Minister of Health, the same man patriot, the same man who was from Canada and wanted to bring these good values, you can blame us but you can't do it that way. If he had high treason there, so I can't blame you while he was arrested, located, transferred generals during Sanader, you believed that he was leading us into the future of Europe. That's what you said yesterday, but I don't blame you. So we all have our own moral attitudes, and the other is something that's legal. So I'm very much listening to you, and I'm sure it's a big impact on the sale of banks that are put into other people's hands, monetary policy absolutely has no influence, I disagree with that, we can agree on a number of things. I was against the sale of Croatian property all the time, literally also at the local level trampling my feet for it, fighting for people, but you can't throw yourself at someone with a stone, and say yesterday you said you believed in Sanader, that you believed. It's not your fault, but you can't judge anyone. Then everything was also sold out, arrested, located, humiliated. Yeah, people are in containers, and we have to fight and squeeze together, and we need to implement your ideas along with us what we need, but only together, not jumping out. I'm saying this without any politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2057	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mr. Mir Bulj, for the replica. The reply to the replica, the esteemed colleague, Mr. Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2058	Mr. Bulj, thank you for your observation, and I'm actually going to say the next thought, I didn't trust Evey Sanader, I trusted the media who at that time told everyone in the EU that we had a better and happier future waiting for us in the EU. That was ten years ago. At the time I thought that America was a promised country and that NATO was expanding peace and stability around the world, I was a child 18 years old, I believed in all these lies and that Ivo Sanader was a positive, because the media represented him that way. My biggest mistake and sin and crime was to trust the media, but ten or nine years ago I realized that it was one big manipulation, and unfortunately a large part of our citizens still don't understand it, and it still supports HDZ and this policy that leads only to the disseminating of our state beings, the detachment of our people and from BiH and Croatia, as well as a large division or division of a few rich and many poor citizens. The process of disseminating society in this political economic order is inevitable and will eventually take on increasingly catastrophic proportions. And in this process, public and social property will quickly pass into the hands of foreigners, and our citizens in these and such enterprises will only work as servants of foreign bosses. In such a model and in such a state, ladies and gentlemen, we live today. And you MOST colleagues, I have nothing against you, you believe that through this system you can change something, but in this system, Mr. Bull, there is no future for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2059	I thank Mr. Ivan Pernar for his reply to the replica. With this, we've exhausted all the replicas in this debate. The following came to light for the debate on behalf of the Living Wall's Club of Representatives and the Alphabet democracy's final word, Mr. Ivan Pernar. Here's to the pay phone, Mr. Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2060	Dear ladies and gentlemen, dear citizens. I'm talking to you again from this place right now, I'm talking to an empty house or half empty because there are literally 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 people here and one on the way out. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the topics I was talking about here today are of no interest to anyone. And these topics are of no interest to anyone because of the fact that most of them in their lives are very well and they do not care. For them, this system is good and they have no intention and will to change it. And yet I am sure that there are in the hearts of the parliamentary representatives who stand here today listening to the wishes, will, and hope for change in our country. I appeal to them and their conscience that from the path that leads to the humiliation of our citizens, and that humiliation in any case comes down to action because of the inability to repay credit, to side with their own people and to rebel against the system they serve. As a councilman, I was a young man in the Green List in Stenjevec City, chosen and argued with Mario Jelic, who led the SDP there. I thought for a long time that my enemy was Mario Jelic and SDP, but when I realized how the financial system worked, I realized that my enemy was neither SDP nor HDZ nor Mario Jelic, nor Zoran Milanović, nor Tomislav Karamarko, nor Andrej Plenkovic, nor the people who are replicating me here, but our common enemy financial system was based on the credit or inability of the state to create money, but as I said in my previous speech or the various inability of the state to come to money without the intermediation of private banks. Such a situation has put our country in a dependent position against foreign banks and because the state depends on foreign money to finance its needs, these banks determine its policy, or government policy, rather than parliamentary representatives. Foreign banks are the ones who have made a request or a warrant for our country's telephone sale, or the same banks, which will ask our Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic to take our grandfather's property through real estate tax and place our country's assets on the drum. Ladies and gentlemen, what happened to the Dukic family on the day that Mr. Andrej Plenkovic became prime minister, that fate is soon waiting for more and more of our citizens, and at the end of the loss of property will not be spared either our own state. As our debt is rapidly growing as a state, and on the other hand, the state's assets are shrinking rapidly, we'll meet in monetary scissors, which means we'll get to the point where we'll have an enormous debt, and we won't have any more assets to sell. At that point, foreign creditors as the real owners of our country will demand the implementation of cruel austerity measures, will demand a reduction of public administration and what colleagues in the Most call a fight against the arrests. These arrests, which today are safe for whom it is well, must also know that this system is turned against them as it is against all other people, and that they will be the first victims of such a crazy policy. I appeal to my HDZ and SDP colleagues not to be the hostages of a policy that surely leads us to ruin, I appeal to them to act within their parties on people around them and on their members, to rebel against our country's system of governance or our country's management outside. I as an individual can't do anything, we from the Living Wall are currently only four in this High House. I don't believe that the Living Wall will ever win power on its own, but if you HDZ and SDP gentlemen raise your voice and rebel against such management our country has a chance. I told Mr. Greek of the SDP, if the SDP ever turns its back on that elite, the top of the 1% pyramid, and stands aside 99% of the citizens, I am Mr. Greek, ready to give my hand immediately and give my signature. That's the same message I sent to Andrej Plenkovic. My struggle as well as my colleagues is not a personal nature and is not for the positions of either mayor or representative. We have found ourselves in this struggle because we have found no other way to point out the problems our country is in. I call on our citizens to wake up and sleep from the hypnosis where we've been kept by the media for the last 20 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2061	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Mr. Ivan Pernar, for this debate. We have one registered for replication. Dear fellow representative Mr. Marko Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2062	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Pernar, when you were counting the MPs, he was able to count his MPs who are currently... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2063	I thank you for the replica of Mr. Mark Sladolev. The reply to the replica is Mr. Ivan Pernar's esteemed representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2064	I thank Mr. Sladoljev and my wish would be that my colleagues are here today, but unlike colleagues from HDZ who are not here today and MOST of my colleagues know very well what I am saying and understand the essence of the problem. The point is, it's not how many of us are here. It's how much she understands what I'm talking about. And as far as I'm concerned, it's very small. I don't judge you or give you anything. On the contrary, I respect you and love you as a man and it is my desire for you to, together with me and your colleagues from both HDZ and the SDP, rebel together against this system that keeps our country in slavery, and humiliates the citizens. Your enemy is not Ivan Pernar, is not Marin Škibola, is not Branimir Bunjac, nor Ivan Vilibor Sinčić, our problem is Mr. Marijan Hanžeković, who has sold his soul to the devil and who through his disgusting yellow press The Morning List of Attacks and insults all those who oppose his model of execution or deprive the citizens of life and suck life's energy out of them. That's why I welcome your colleague from the MOST's efforts to take away his job forcibly charged performance on behalf of HRT. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2065	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mr. Ivan Pernar, for his reply to the replica. It repeats itself again, and I hope that this weekend will have a beneficial effect on you and that you will not be offended in this way in the future by people who are not here and that you will stay away from such behaviours because you are doing a breach of the Rules of Procedure. But this time we won't tell you any reproof. Here's what we've concluded with this debate on this agenda point. We'll finish today's work. We continue the session on Wednesday 26 October at 9.30 p.m. with a vote on this item of the agenda that we discussed today, so the proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Local Elections, first reading. And we continue the session after voting with item 5 of the agenda, which is the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Implementing Law. Once again, I thank you all for your presence in this debate. I wish you a pleasant weekend and a happy return to your families, your homes. Session interrupted at 15.50 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-21-0.u2066	Then thank you very much for understanding, then we're going to vote. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Local Elections, first reading, P.Z. No. 8. It is proposed by the club of the representatives of the Independent Lists. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. 1. Proposal for a law supplementing the Local Election Act is hereby adopted. 1. Any comments, proposals and opinions will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's get involved and vote. 82 for it. I find that most of the votes have come to this conclusion as proposed by the parliamentary bodies. So there were 82 deputies, 26 abstentions, and they were against three MPs. Comrade Panenić, here you go.
