ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u159	Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u160	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, may I?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u161	Of course. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u162	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, I request a 15-minute recess due to the decision of the European Court in the case against the Privredna banka Zagreb and Mr. Bozo Prka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u163	Anyone else? No, I don't. So, I'm setting a break of 10 minutes. I'll see you at 14 and 10. Thank you. It's 1:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.10 HOURS]] Now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the word will be taken by the honourable representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u165	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues as you know about the European Court as the most judicial body of the EU may decide in the proceedings on previous issues referred to them by Croatia or by the courts of other EU Member States. In one of the first procedures that was initiated for giving so-called The previous opinion was decided by the European Court of Justice at the request of the Bjelovar Criminal Court, which in the case of Horžić and Pušić v Privredna banka Zagreb and God Prka delivered its opinion on the provisions of the Consumer Credit Act adopted by the Croatian Parliament. In order to make it clear to you what case this is, I will explain that it is those provisions of the Consumer Credit Act which set out the possibility to impose a criminal penalty when banks have not defined the parameters on which interest rates are determined in the case of variable interest rates. By way of derogation from paragraph 1, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. According to certain estimates, some 100,000 loans in which banks did not respect their contractual or legal obligation. However, it is not just a hundred thousand loan contracts, but it is also a matter of punishment that lawless courts can impose in each of the individual cases. And the penalty for the responsible bank ranges from 80 to 200 thousand kuna and for the person responsible in each of those loan agreements, the penalty shall range from 10 to 50 thousand kuna. As you can see from the persons who were the subject of this procedure, responsible persons are the presidents of the administration of the specific banks concerned. Therefore, it is clear that the European Court has now sided with the Croatian state, sided with the law proposed by the government headed by Zoran Milanovic and adopted by the Croatian Parliament against the banks. It is clear that there are potential penalties that may amount to nine billion kunas. It is clear that it is a question which is potentially financially difficult for banks than it was a question of the conversion of loans into Swiss francs and it is clear that colleagues and colleagues why banks do not want the process for the conversion of loans in Swiss francs to the European Judicial System but are running to Washington. It is clear because the European Judicial System has shown why we are a member of the EU, which is why we need to deal with procedures within the framework of EU law and not move away from it. It is very good that we have learned about this decision right now during the debate on the CNB because it is the CNB, as well as the Ministry of Finance, who is responsible for the implementation of this law and the processing of banks that have violated the provisions of this law. Dear Governor, at this point you have a decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia that says the law is in conformity with the Constitution. You have a decision by the European Court that says the law is in line with the EU legal order. Which means you have absolutely no obstacle to order the proceedings against all those banks that have violated the provisions of this law and to charge the amounts we are talking about on the moment you return to your office. When you charge them, it will be completely no matter if Croatia is convinced that it may not lose the process because of the conversion of credit in Swiss francs because all of this we are talking about will be charged. And one more thing, given the position of the European Court of Justice in the case concerning the Consumer Credit Act, given that the subject is very much related to the subject of the conversion in the Swiss francs because the currency clause with the variable interest rate is inextricably related to the problem of lending to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia I call from this place on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to publish in hastily the reply to the European Commission regarding lending in Swiss francs. Citizens of the Republic of Croatia and we Parliamentarians have the right to know which direction this procedure is headed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u166	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3266	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon. I warmly welcome you. We continue with the work on the three agenda point: - Half-yearly information on the financial situation, degree of price stability and implementation of monetary policy Information provider Croatian National Bank based on Article 62. The CNB law. The material was delivered to you in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the Committee on the State Budget. You received the report at the session. Does the applicant want to give an additional explanation? Here you go. Mr. Boris Vujcic, governor of the CNB.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3267	Good morning. Thank you very much. Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. It is an honor and a pleasure to welcome you to the 9th meeting of the Croatian Parliament and the first information I submit before it. In accordance with the legal obligation, I would briefly present half-yearly information on the financial situation of the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy relating to the other six months of 2015. I will start my exposure to the most important macroeconomic trends in the second half of 2015, in which the CNB achieved its regulatory objectives of stability of prices and financial stability and the available monetary policy measures acted in the direction of creating conditions for stronger credit growth in the first row of the economy, and thus stronger economic growth. I will also refer to the process of converting credit into a Swiss franc that began during that period. Economic activity in Croatia after six consecutive years of contraction in 2015 finally entered the recovery phase. Growth in economic activity continued to accelerate in the second half of 2015 when it reached 1.5% compared to the first half of the year. All components of domestic demand as exports continued to grow in the second half of 2015. Good performance on the side of exporting services, mostly mirrored extremely good performances in tourism. The growth of personal consumption can, to the greatest extent, be linked to favourable labour market developments, tax reform and further declines in oil prices as well as food. This strengthened consumer opportunities for households, as well as consumer optimism, and contributed to an increase in the propensity of consumption. In the case of investments, growth in the second half of 2015 has been largely generated by private investments. Export growth and domestic demand have led to a strong increase in imports. At the level of the entire second half of 2015, economic activity was 2.4% higher than in the same period of the previous year, while growth of 1.6% was reported at year-on-year. The strengthening of economic activity has spurred somewhat more favourable labour market developments, visible in the growth of the number of employees especially in service activities during the second half of 2015. Employment also increased at an annual level, achieving a growth of 0.7%, ending a multi-year negative trend in employment. Also in the second half of 2015, a slight growth in gross wages was continued. I'm going to look back now on inflationary movements. Consumer price inflation in the second half fell from 0% in June to minus 0.6% in the 2015 process, mainly as a result of overflowing global prices of crude oil and food raw materials to domestic prices. The annual drop in energy prices thus slightly accelerates to minus 5% in December 2015, and the annual rate of change in food prices and services has been reduced. On the other hand, the annual rate of change in the price of industrial products increased. However, if the rate of change of the GDP deflator is observed means a broadly defined price index that excludes import prices from the calculation, those in the second half of 2015 were on average minus 0.1%, which is similar to that in the previous period. In the balance of payments, he would point out that the surplus balance of the current balance of payments reached 5.2% of GDP throughout 2015. This is the result of the already mentioned good results in tourism as well as the stronger use of available funds from EU funds, as well as the statistical treatment of credit conversion in Swiss francs through the improvement of the primary income balance due only to the conversion of approximately 2% points. The foreign capital flows in the second half of 2015 marked the net capital outflow on the balance of payments accounts and this as a result of a noticeable improvement in the net debt position of the domestic sector. As a consequence, the relative indicators of gross and net foreign debt improved compared to the end of June. The biggest impact on capital flows has had a bank reaction to the adoption of amendments and additions to the Consumer Credit Act at the end of September. In particular, during September and October 2015, banks deposited abroad or returned foreign loans of more than 12 billion kuna. In those months, the effects of the seasonal increase in the net foreign activity of the banking sector under the influence of the tourist season are usually already exhausted, and it can be found that the activities in which the banks took action in order to coordinate currency positions after the law on the conversion of credit in francs resulted in a large division of funds abroad. I am also moving to the work of the CNB, which has largely been marked by the above-mentioned outflow of funds abroad. The CNB continued to implement expansion monetary policy under difficult conditions on the financial market while maintaining the main objective... in achieving the objective of financial stability and prices, which is the stability of the exchange rate according to the euro. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] By means of the related measures in the second half of September and in early October, the CNB further increased the liquidity of the monetary system to calm down the pressures on the exchange rate and interest rates reported on the financial market as a result of legal changes regulating the conversion and partial write-off of the credit with the currency clause in the Swiss franc. The nominal exchange rate towards the euro during most of the third quarter was held at slightly lower levels compared to the first half of the year. However, in the second half of September, the kuna weakened compared to the euro. The decrease in kuna was prompted by the increased demand for foreign exchange banks related to the adjustment of their foreign exchange position of imbalances caused by the expected write-down of part of the Swiss franc credit. The CNB provided foreign exchange intervention with liquidity in the foreign exchange market, thus calming the pressures on the domestic exchange rate. After foreign exchange intervention and other CNB measures, the exchange rate was stabilised and the average exchange rate in the second half of 2015 was 7.59 kuna per euro, down by 0.6% from the average achieved in the same period 2014. Compared to pressures on the cash market tension rate, overnight interest rates rose to about 2% in the second half of September. The CNB has facilitated these tensions by increasing liquidity through the reintroduction of regular reverse repo operations and the abolition of mandatory cash registers. In doing so, the CNB acted in relatively favourable conditions and strengthening surpluses in the current account, strong fiscal adjustments and inflows of large foreign direct investment at the time when banks recorded, i.e. recorded the first estimates of the impact of the conversion and... related to transactions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The monetary policy on the one hand reacted to eliminate as much as possible the disturbances that occurred on the monetary foreign exchange market in late September. At the same time, they sought to take advantage of additional degrees of freedom in the conduct of monetary policy, which provided continued strengthening of the invaluable competitiveness of the Croatian economy and improving the balance of the current balance of payments account as well as the strong fiscal adjustment we have seen in the past year. Speaking of state and other domestic financing conditions under high liquidity conditions supported by CNB’s expansion monetary policy, domestic financing costs in the second half of 2015 were maintained at historically low levels. In addition, a survey on bank credit activity shows that credit approval standards have continued to gradually ease. Nevertheless, the deleveraging of the population sector and domestic business continued during the second half of 2015. However, a turn towards kuna lending is visible primarily for citizens. The international reserve funds of the CNB invested predominantly in US and German state securities and in CNB's gross international reserves at the end of 2015 amounted to 13.7 billion euros. The rate of return... The CNB portfolio was 0.25% while the rate of return of the CNB's European trading portfolio for the same period was... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] %. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In doing so, it should be stressed that the negative interest rates of almost all countries... HNB investments significantly limit the possibility of achieving a more favourable return rate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At this point we are acting in a situation where it will reach up to 6 years, a practically complete European portfolio in which the CNB is investing carries a negative interest rate. There's more to the banking sector. In total, in 2015 the assets of banks decreased by 1.2% after the exclusion of the impact of exchange rate movements. This is due to the absence of credit growth, the sale of non-payment claims and the continuation of bank deleveraging as well as the application of legal changes related to loans in Swiss francs resulting in losses in business. Banks have shown a loss all year long before taxes of 4.7 billion kuna. If the impact of bank profit conversion costs is excluded, it shows a slight increase in 2015 which is mainly the result of lower booking costs for losses in the credit portfolio. As for partially and completely non-refundable loans, their growth started in 2015. The share of loans of risk groups B and C decreased from 17.1%) at the end of 2014 to 16.6% at the end of 2015. The key impact on the trend in credit quality has been on the sale of claims in particular in the company sector. The ageing of portfolios strengthened by the impact of regulatory rules on the percentage increase in the correction of the value for long-term imbalances has affected a significant increase in credit coverage of Groups B and C... values from 51.3% to 56.6%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Just to visit that when the CNB introduced stricter requirements for the reservation of non-performing loans, bad loans de facto the booking of these loans was just a little higher than a third and now we came to 56% of the booking of these loans. The application of the legal provisions on the conversion of loans in the Swiss franc also affected the decline of the total capital of banks, on the one hand, the reduction of regulatory capital due to the loss of the current year and, on the other hand, the increase in the exposure of banks to currency risk. In addition, the reduction of regulatory capital was affected by higher dividend payments. However, the total capital rate remained high, at the end of 2015 it was 20.9% substituted more than the prescribed minimum total capital rate and other regulatory capital requirements and safeguards of capital. What were the basic features of fiscal policy during the observed period? In the second half of last year, a decrease in the general government's deficit was continued at the annual level both due to further income growth and a decline in expenditure. The growth of total revenues continued to contribute to the most revenue from indirect taxes while on the divisive side of the budget a strong reduction in the general government's investment. If the entire 2015 deficit of the general government was seen at 10.7 billion kuna and 3.2% of GDP, which is 7.4 billion kuna and 2.3 percentage points of GDP, respectively, compared to 2014. When it comes to the general government's debt, it amounted to 289.7 billion kuna or 86.7% of GDP at the end of December. A few notes on the conversion of loans into Swiss francs that started then ended this year. As soon as the ZID ZPK HNB entered into force, it began to carry out its legal obligation to monitor the conversion of all credit institutions subject to the conversion obligation. The supervision of the CNB has been continued throughout the process of preparation and implementation of conversion and of all the banks involved are the daily requested information, documentation and evidence of all the circumstances relevant for the implementation of the conversion as well as reports on the implementation of all the conversion obligations. In this way, drafts of the annexes were obtained from banks, conversion calculations, interest rate reviews, exchange rates, type and model credits, credit conditions and both for authorised loans in the Swiss franc and from so-called ‘Switzerland’. paris loans in euro. In cases where documentation and information received from banks has been assessed as necessary, corrections of documents and observed irregularities in the shown actions have been requested. In this way, the following has been done during the conversion and in relation to the supervisory activities of the CNB. First, several banks in the contract annex proposal excluded the disputed provisions and the amended annexes were re-delivered to clients as soon as amended, offered and re-delivered to the clients of banks 27 220 annexes of the contract. The two banks reiterated conversion calculations for all clients who had the right to convert so as not to put their clients in a more unfavourable position than other banks' clients. Based on which 6,954 new, i.e. the recalculation of the conversions offered and delivered to the clients of these banks. The two banks subsequently produced and provided customers with conversion calculations for cancelled credit contracts, which also offered 544 additional conversion calculations to customers. The subsequent calculation of the conversion was then carried out for the debtors of a single bank where the conversion incorrectly applied interest rate on the date of approval and not on the date of the contract of credit, which was prepared and offered to customers 400 new conversion calculations. And formal measures have finally been launched against banks in cases of established illegality in the application of the ZID ZPK, records, solutions and infringement proceedings. The CNB issued five minutes and two solutions, and three infringements were initiated. These activities included more than 35,000 conversion calculations, i.e. contract annexes, which account for a half share of the total number of 54 663 conversions accepted according to data provided by banks to the Ministry of Finance. At the same time as mid-November 2015 to the second half of April 2016, 2251 complaints from consumers related to conversion were received and processed in the CNB. It is noted that this number of consumer complaints processed in relation to conversion exceeds the three-year average of all consumer complaints received in the CNB. Three things I would like to address in the final discussions concern a debate that has been in the Parliament for the last two days and concerns some issues that I think are important to clarify or clarify for the citizens. The first question is the transparency of the work of the CNB mentioned. The past two days have been debated a lot about transparency, but from the debate it was clear that it was clearly not understood what is being said which is clear... of a research in the wrong context. Let me briefly explain how CNB quotes according to different transparency measures. Economists have developed a series of monetary policy transparency indices that try to measure the accuracy with which central banks quantify objectives, specify instruments and elaborate details of mechanisms that achieve their objectives. It can be measured openly in several dimensions, transparency can be measured in the conduct of monetary policy and transparency of policies aimed at maintaining financial stability. According to the index... which was constructed by one of the indicators of monetary policy transparency which I assume was mentioned in the debate in the last two days in the Parliament. The CNB is indeed one of the least transparent central banks in Europe. But what does that mean? For that there are very clearly defined reasons why I will explain. On the other hand, the other type of transparency index constructed by Horvat and Vashka 2013 which constructed a policy transparency index aimed at maintaining financial stability shows that the CNB is one of the most transparent and most open central banks in the world. Such a combination of high transparency in financial stability and low transparency in the dimension of the implementation of monetary policy is relatively unusual. Why? Because two dimensions of transparency usually go hand in hand together, since institutional development improves all areas of central bank activity. What's this about? It is that transparency in this form as defined by it as a desirable definition of monetary policy management is linked to the monetary regime of targeting inflation. The aim of inflation is to assume a flexible course since exchange rate interventions are considered to be highly non-transparent monetary policy instruments, especially if they are announced in advance. They don't announce in advance, no. Twenty years ago, however, CNB late '93. In early '94. For more than 20 years, the CNB has begun to conduct the exchange rate regime of the managed fluctuation of kuna courses. In such conditions if the Central Bank is transparent in terms of the definition of this index, then the speculators are very cheap to bet against the exchange rate regime, and the Central Bank can be very expensive to defend the stability of the course. Why? Because he announces to speculators what he's going to do. Therefore, the CNB’s monetary policy cannot be transparent to the extent stated in that article... If it were the CNB, it would lose the RH's money for the speculator's account. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what I hope we don't want. In view of the amount of foreign exchange debt of all sectors of the population, businesses and the state, which amounts to nearly 550 billion kuna, i.e. around 160% of the gross domestic product, a stable rate is an absolute prerequisite for maintaining financial stability. On the other hand, the CNB has never advocated the fixation of the exchange rate, which would also, under definition, be a transparent form of monetary policy. It's a clean fix. And he left the course to be gradually adapted to economic foundations in Croatia as much as it does not violate the financial stability of the Croatian system, which means that we also saw '99. the year that the course slipped 11% and that we saw a rate adjustment during this crisis when it also depressed without jeopardizing the stability of the financial system. For transparency and success in maintaining financial stability, which is, of course, closely linked to the conduct of the right monetary policy, Croatia is ranked among the most transparent and successful countries in the world. However, it is much more important that financial stability is not related as it is often criticised only for the security of the banking system but also for every citizen of our country. The citizens of Croatia and we are glad to see financial stability today as their normal everyday life. It wasn't like that 15, 20 or 30 years ago. They can certainly wake up every day and know the real value of their salary, calculate what they can buy with it and how they can plan their future and the future of their families. They don't have to look forward to the future and be afraid that tomorrow or the day after that their receipts will be twice or three times less than they've experienced many times in the past. They do not have to fear that their savings will be less valuable than in the past several times when their de facto savings remained confiscated in the failed banks. The same security is essential for the functioning of the economy in our country, for every entrepreneur, for all those who have to do and earn money in the open market to pay for their workers, their obligations to the state and invest. Therefore, the CNB is very transparent where it can and may be given monetary and exchange rate regimes and the necessity to preserve financial stability. However, the necessity of preserving the exchange rate regime and financial stability are sometimes the dam of communication openness that the CNB wants at least as much as certain critics do. As regards the transparency of the CNB, it has been and remains open to communication with the public, including for an argumentable public debate on all aspects of the central bank's activities. A few words about the cost-effectiveness of the CNB, that was a lot of words. First, I must point out that contrary to the claims made in recent days, the CNB is not financed from the state budget but from its own revenues. The CNB shall draw up, on an annual basis, financial reports subject to audit in accordance with international accounting standards and domestic audit regulations. As regards business audits, the Central Bank therefore exists all these years and implements it in accordance with the law adopted by the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, an external auditor appointed by the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia through its Committee on Budgets and Finance, and the same audit report is submitted to the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. This means that the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia has had for years all data on the work and business of the CNB and the audit evaluation of the performance of its operations, and additional data from the auditor appointed at any time could and may request. In addition, the CNB has established, in accordance with best practice in central banks, an external audit committee that makes up independent experts, which assess the quality of the work of an independent external auditor. It is important to point out that the CNB makes enough to cover the costs of its business and to transfer the Ministry of Finance in conditions of historically lowest interest rates, i.e. as I have already said negative euro interest rates to all bonds, for example in Germany, is reaching up to 6 years. How do I do that? That's the question I think you should be asking in the Parliament. This results in a sound financial management policy and, above all, the right decision to buy long-term securities since 2011, thus extending the maturity of portfolios, which proved to be a very good investment decision, given the strong decline in the yield of non-euro bonds that followed. In this move, the CNB's revenue for the period 2012 to 2015 increased by a billion and 800 million kuna, de facto all transferred to the Ministry of Finance. In the following years, decisions to increase the same portfolio as the extension of its maturity have been taken from 2012 onwards, thus ensuring stable revenues in the years from 2016 to 2016. Therefore, I can say today that the CNB has positioned itself to make stable revenues excluding, of course, exchange rate differences since 2016 in the central period regardless of the historically lowest interest rates. The Croatian National Bank stands out as a bank with below average operating costs and above average profits. Winning is not the aim of the central bank but the CNB's profits were historically among the highest in the EU. If the operating costs of the CNB are 0,09% of GDP compared to the costs of central banks of countries with relatively similar population, for example, Latvia 0.15%, Bulgaria 0.12%, Ireland and Lithuania 0.11%), Austria and Slovakia 0.10%, Hungary 0.09% or Slovenia 0.08%, it is obvious that the CNB has settled among the more thrift and economical central banks. If an absolute amount of operating costs per employee is observed in the previous two days, it can also be noted that among the analogue countries only the Central Bank of Bulgaria, which has a significantly lower GDP per head, and the lowest salaries have lower costs than the CNB of all other EU central banks, have more costs than the CNB. Also, as regards operating costs, the CNB shows them very transparently on its website as a public procurement obligor. So these data are also fully publicly available. The involvement of the State Audit, as we have said, could contribute to additional transparency in the business of the CNB, especially when it would, by means of a method of comparative European value criteria, benchmarking which is otherwise used to assess the effectiveness of an institution or business and, on the basis of operational costs, assess whether Croatia has an efficient economic and efficient central bank. For the same purpose and in the same way, of course, the State Audit Office has the opportunity to analyse and evaluate all other institutions which audits what can best point to the efficiency of state institutions, whether they have too many or too few employees, whether they have more or less costs than the comparable institutions with which they are compared. And that, by the way, the CNB supports it. Therefore, contrary to the claims made in recent days, the CNB does not close in any way before the State Audit but would like to see its action not only legally aligned with the European acquis or with the principles laid down in the control of the central banks' institutions in the EU but also contribute to the assessment of the efficiency of the CNB in the usual way of Benchmarking of the CNB with comparable European institutions. This is certainly the best quality information that citizens can get about both the CNB and other state institutions. Finally, I need to look back at the measure in which price stability and financial stability goals have been achieved. In terms of price stability, as could be heard in the discussion of previous days, Croatia recorded a very slight decline in the general level of consumer prices. However, it is important to stress that the decline in consumer prices is entirely the result of the decline in import prices. The GDP deflator means the largest price measure deflating the overall economic activity and excluding import prices... at a level of approximately zero. [[You don't understand.]] Since the export prices... less than the international level import conditions for Croatia have been improved. [[You don't understand.]] Or simplified for one unit of export goods, Croatia could introduce more units of import goods than before. The decline in prices increased the purchasing power of households, and it is no accident that personal consumption continued to grow strongly during the observed period. In terms of financial stability, Croatia has achieved the stability of the banking system. So no kuna rescue aid to banks has fallen to the burden of taxpayers in conditions in which Croatia has had the second largest drop in GDP in the EU. In most other EU countries, taxpayers had to assist or re-schedul banks that had a lower GDP decline. Well, that's what I think is the best assessment of the efficiency of CNB's policy in banking regulation. And just the last thing, with all due respect to all the critical advances of distinguished MPs and MPs in the past two days, I must say, I am very sorry to hear that all the CNB employees are told and not true. I'll just say for a little while, CNB doesn't pay anyone a sauna and a massage, we don't serve shrimp and lobsters, we don't pay for Christmas cards and regresses. We also do not hire any masters and sommeliers but we have already externalized restaurant services and some other services. So these aren't CNB employees at all. And by doing that, we made savings between 20% and 40% compared to hiring these employees ourselves. At cost, we are at the bottom of the European scale
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3268	Mr. Wolfie, I apologize. Your time is up. It's not the subject of your report, please. Thank you very much. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Vujcic, for this report. We have several replicas on this report. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Branko Bačić, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3269	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Governor, before we discuss the metrics of this information, I would like to define the form in which this information came to Parliament. As you know, so far, the Croatian Parliament has normally discussed the CNB reports in such a way that the first 6 months were covered by the report and the other 6 months were covered by the Annual Report of the CNB which then included an overview of the indicators for the whole year. As far as it seems to me, this is the first time we have discussed the second half of the year without the Croatian Parliament having discussed the first 6 months of 2015, and I am also interested in whether, after this half-year report for the second half of 2015, the Croatian Parliament will also discuss the entire Annual Report for 2015, which was the case. By way of derogation from Article 62 of the Treaty on the The National Bank Act provides for the Croatian Parliament to report twice a year on indicators and the state of monetary policy in the Republic of Croatia. I ask you this for the reason that in your own debate on several occasions you have mentioned the debate in the Croatian Parliament in the past two days, so you know that the bill provides for the Croatian Parliament to be seen with or against the annual report and reports of the CNB. I am interested in why we changed the form and framework that was so far and will we discuss as representatives in the Croatian Parliament the full annual report in 2015 or this way the CNB introduces a new reporting practice in the Croatian Parliament?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3270	I thank you for the replica of Mr. Branko Bačić. The reply to the replica is rapporteur Mr Vujcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3271	Thanks for asking. So the law states that the CNB informs the Parliament twice a year about the degree of price stability and the tasks of the CNB, not in what form. So we've already discussed it for the first six months, so we've had this report and the Parliament's already discussed it, this is the other six months. So twice a year we submitted information under the Law on the achievement of the degree of price stability and other tasks of the CNB. As for the vote or not the vote, I think it's a question that's open in the debate on the new law. I didn't want to talk about it until now, but the fact is that practice in all EU countries means 27 countries out of 28 not to vote on central banks' reports but to just debate them. The only country in which the vote was held was the Czech Republic, which has already been objected to by the European Commission that it does not comply with the European acquis. And as far as I'm saying this information, they're still going to be every six months, I've always been open to basically, I've said it several times in this House for different forms of that information. I would personally find it more interesting to talk to you about the current monetary policy than what has happened in the last six months of 2015, but somehow it has always been right here in the Parliament asked me to stick to saying what it says and only talks about what happened six months ago. By the time we send that report, by the time it comes to the agenda, we're always discussing the past. I find it more interesting to talk about the present, if that suits you. And we're going to do that anyway every six months as the law provides.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3272	I thank you for your response to Mr. Vujcic. Next to the replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3273	Thank you very much. You spoke more about the present, i.e. You've been talking half the time about the amendments to the law in the Parliament. You say that the Croatian bank is not financed from the state budget, yes, but is financed from the funds owned by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. You're saying that literally in your report, it's all blooming, so can you tell how much it affects imports, the unemployed, the exports, the general picture we have in the Republic of Croatia. You're talking about transparency, is this decision of the Administrative Court in the Franak case, whose interests were protected in the Franak case? Why not give transparency and public information to colleagues from the Franak Association? Are you saying it's transparent that banks in the Republic of Croatia are doing what they can't do in their countries, that over the night 300% interest increases, we have an example of a municipality where over the night 300% of interest has increased? Is it transparent, you say, winning is the biggest in the CNB, yes, while the biggest profit in the CNB is commendable and it is not commendable that the people are in the container. How much has this impact on general life in the Republic of Croatia, the CNB and monetary policy brought about so far? One question, if one state votes on the reports of its central banks, we'll be the other. It's the right of people's representatives. It's not up to you to decide. It's not up to me. It's up to most of us, and that's the way it's gonna be. This is the right you can give us lectures, but it is the right of those who have elected citizens, because we are representatives of citizens, not the correspondence of some EU officials who will order us to do what we are going to do. And as far as the revision is concerned, only briefly since I've exceeded the time Mr. Vujčić, as regards the State Audit, the same operating conditions as the other institutions in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3274	I thank you for the replica of my esteemed colleague, Bull. The reply to the replica is the esteemed rapporteur, Mr Vujčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3275	Thank you very much for your questions. So as far as my clarifications are concerned, I just wanted to make it clear that the CNB is not a budgetary user, so we really didn't even mention it. We simply transfer the difference in our incomes and expenditures to the Ministry of Finance. You can ask any management experts... management of funds how this job has been done by the CNB all these years. If anyone says we did it wrong, I'll take it. As far as I understand it, we've been doing this extremely well, we've transferred to the Ministry of Finance 5.5 billion kuna since 2000, and there's a contribution from the CNB and then the budget and the cost of the budget, and I think it's completely unquestionable. As for the decision of the Administrative Court you mentioned, there are three laws passed by the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, which, by the letter of the law, prohibit us from publishing that information. So, if we publish them, we put ourselves at legal risk of being sued and we lose that dispute and we're actually to blame. This way, when we have a decision of the Administrative Court, the legal risk to the CNB is significantly lower. All other information except for the name of the banks that are defending us from publishing the three laws, we published it immediately on time. We have now published the names of banks with legal risk now significantly lower for the CNB.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3276	I thank you for your reply to the replica. The next call came from a respected counterpart, Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3277	I thank the Vice-President of the Parliament, dear colleague Vujčić, listening to your report you mentioned that we are one of the best banks in Europe, that we work best and probably for the interests of Europe rather than for the interests of Croatian citizens that we have 300 thousand blocked, the economy destroyed as well. And I'm asking you, is it possible that all banks of Croatia have been destroyed, in fact, that we have 90% of banks in other people's possessions? Why would the People's Bank allow so much interest, the interest rate for our citizens? And is this the report you're talking about how we're good and how ours is, our only people's bank hasn't rescheduled a single bank? So how will the People's Bank resuscitate her when they rescheduled the entire population in this country? Well, they're full of money, citizens empty. If you think that's good, then I don't know what's wrong. Another thing, if the truth about your expenses in a national bank is being told, then there's something wrong with it. Why don't you tell yourself that a review comes into the People's Bank and makes an audit to see that you do it properly and honestly all according to the rule of the Croatian State? Simply citizens need to know what's going on in this country, what's going on in the People's Bank, according to all these reports, and these rules of the National Bank, we can tell the State to ourselves. So I'd like to hear from you on what I've told you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3278	I would like to thank you for the replica of my esteemed colleague, Mišic. The reply to the replica is rapporteur Mr Vujčić Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3279	Thank you very much for your questions. The first two questions why banks are owned. Because the government of the Republic of Croatia decided to sell them back in the '90s and I was in college at the time. Why were they sold? Because they didn't do good business while they were on domestic property. Are the interest rates high? No, interest rates in Croatia are adapted to risky countries, so if you compare them with the country's rating lower than the country's forecast. They're historically the lowest today. And I have repeated several times good businesses in Croatia are now being financed at fixed interest rates per kuna from 2% to 3%. The state is financed at the historically lowest interest rates, which is due to monetary policy and Croatian interest rates compared to other countries adjusted for rating are lower than should otherwise be. And as for the state audit, I think I said it all a little while ago, so I'm not gonna say it again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3280	I thank you for your response to Mr. Vujcic. The following came to the replica, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3281	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Governor Vujčić, we have heard here from your presentations of many fine coins. You said that for what we're interested in, we could ask the experts. But I don't think we have to ask the experts, enough to turn around, go out among the citizens, I don't know when you were among them the last time, we have our ears, our eyes, our brains, and very easily we can notice that citizens live disastrously and that they are not really protected from speculators as you say, but in fact you get the impression that exactly you speculators are protecting them. Because if you weren't protecting speculators, you'd be banning loans in Swiss francs by the middle of last decade. You knew very well that loans in Swiss francs destroyed Australian farmers in the '80s as well as loans in Japanese yen for that you were educated, you were a top expert and you needed to do something. And you allowed 70,000 Croatian families to fall on a beggar's stick, and those families that belonged to the middle layer, the families suffered 7.8 years because of your crime of inaction. Also now you are not doing anything to get back, to force banks to return money on overpaid illegal interest, which there is a rightful verdict, nor do you do anything to protect citizens from the rise in interest rates they are soon following as they are related to EURIBOR and LIBOR. Therefore, do not say that you are protecting the citizens because your actions show the opposite. Your words are beautiful but the works are different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3282	I thank my esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjc for his replica. The reply to the replica, Mr. Rapporteur Boris Vujčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3283	Thank you very much for your comments. I'd just say and repeat that I'm probably the last person you can tell about that in the middle of the last decade, she wasn't aware of the risk of credit in Swiss francs, I was talking about these speakers. However, at that time, except for one analytical article, I do not remember that anyone else in Croatia including anyone who today with later intelligence is pretending to know or should have told me and supported me. No one supported me, however, then it was written in the paper that Vujcic wanted to deny people cheap loans and make fleas of elephants. Here. So I'm the last man you can tell that to, you have to tell everyone else around you first who hasn't responded. One who could ban these loans and who today can, because they are not yet prohibited is the Croatian Assembly by amending the Law on Mandatory Relations. You can simply say fine loans to the residential, long-term population can only be in kunas and euro. I can't be in other currencies. As for the Swiss franc itself, you mentioned the yen, there were many such currencies in which consumers were credited worldwide. So it was the Australian dollar for a while, it was the American dollar itself, the British pound, etc. In some cases, people went very well, and in some cases they lost everything depends on how the course moved. And in the case of the Swiss franc, part of the people in Croatia who raised those loans went better than those who raised them in kunas or euro. However, after the conversion, those who took loans in Swiss francs went better than those who then raised them in kunas. Therefore, you may have different results that may appear to you, so in advance no one can know in which direction the course will go. If anyone knew that, then every bank in the world would hire him to make a huge profit, but people must be aware of what I warned of taking the risk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3284	I thank you for your response to Mr. Vujcic's esteemed reply to the replica. Next to the replica, a distinguished colleague, Boris Lalovac, reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3285	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, to the governor with his associates. So yesterday, we received a reply from the European Central Bank to a request from a colleague of the promoters from the independent lists of MOST on their opinion on the introduction of the State Audit Office in the revision of the efficiency of the business of the CNB. I have actually heard that at the end of your presentation today, and you will confirm to me whether or not it is, that you don't really mind that the revision according to the rights they have and in other European countries performs an audit of the business and efficiency of the CNB, but I am quite interested in your opinion since in my opinion it is in a very rough way responsible in this high house that the State Audit Office is dealing with a political, non-professional and incompetent institution because in fact the ECB's answers were according to one state institution to the State Audit Office. And when the question is asked whether or not we can even discuss here or vote on half-yearly information or annual report, it is also stated that this should not be taken into account at all since this is how we will interfere in the monetary policy of the CNB. Since we actually heard this half-yearly information today, I think we have nothing to do today, we have nothing to do today, and we have heard this half-yearly information, and then we can gather together, go away, thank you and say this information that you gave to the European Central Bank there, and everything is fine. And I think today should actually be over. And there was nothing more to discuss with me, we got that opinion from the European Central Bank, so you think as governor. And actually we in this House today, here's what we've got, we're all happy and happy, and I think we're gonna end up a lot sooner today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3286	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Lalovac, for the replica. The reply to the replica, the esteemed Mr Vujčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3287	Two things. First, I read in detail that opinion of the European Central Bank and it does not say anywhere how much I have seen or that it is... or a political organisation of a state audit, it does not just say anywhere that these are the preconditions for carrying out a review of non-political expertise, etc. As for what you have to do here, I hope to discuss monetary policy. I understand that the purpose of submitting the report to the Parliament is just a transparent debate on the conduct of monetary policy and the regulatory policy of the CNB. So if you have any objections to say them, I will be very happy to discuss them with you, if you have other opinions than those that we have brought out, I will be very happy to discuss them. That's how much I understand this.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3288	I thank you for your response to Mr. Vujcic. Next to the replica, a distinguished colleague, Marin Skybola, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3289	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Mr. Vujčić, you mention the financial stability of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, what financial stability of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia? See what poverty is like? 350 thousand men in the blockade. And you're talking about some good monetary policy. In your report, you mentioned an expansional monetary policy, it's demagogy, you're not conducting an expansion monetary policy, you're conducting a strictly restrictive monetary policy of high interest rates and a strong import lobby rate. What did you do about RBA cooperatives? You can answer that. Where is this regulatory policy regarding RBA cooperatives that are illegal? And the primary objective of the CNB can't be purely price stability, it can't be the primary objective. The primary objective of the CNB should be economic development and full employment. Be responsible and do not create a state in the state which is currently the CNB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3290	I thank Mr. Squiboli for this replica. The reply to the replica, dear fellow rapporteur, Mr Vujčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3291	Thank you very much for your questions and remarks. As for the 300,000 people in the blockade that you're talking about, that the standard of life is people than we'd all like it to be, it's a fact, but it can't solve monetary policy alone as we're talking about. So there are a whole series of other policies that have to do their job to make economic growth higher than it is. If you look at any serious analysis then you will see that the assessment that administrative monetary policy is the one that has secured stability during the crisis or that the crisis is not even bigger, that the number of bankruptcy is even higher and that people are even harder to live. And other policies have done much less their part of the job. As far as RBA cooperatives are concerned, here's my colleague Vice Governor Frass, he's a lawyer, and he'll tell you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3292	Thank you very much. Good morning, everyone. A brief answer. So in terms of RBA cooperatives it's really a question that the CNB has been dealing with. However, what we must say is that there are legal restrictions from our actions. So, what's this all about? RBA cooperatives, which have been actually talked about in recent years and whose business is indicated to be in dispute in the Republic of Croatia and by a number of credit users, are, according to their statements, foreign credit institutions. For a long time, our citizens have the right to borrow from foreign credit institutions and to take loans and to finance their needs in the Republic of Croatia. The essence of the fact that foreign credit institutions are involved is that the CNB does not license those institutions or can monitor them. Therefore, supervisory tasks vis-à-vis foreign credit institutions and in relation to specific RBA cooperatives that are disputed simply do not have the authority of the CNB to control them, or to supervis them. And because of that, I think this is a great opportunity to repeat what we've already said several times. If there is a problem, if there is an illegality about work and how these RBA cooperatives gave credit and how they charge their loans in the Republic of Croatia then there are other competent state authorities, not the CNB that can laws... That's what this is about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it's important that we understand. It is about foreign credit institutions, which are in line with the rights of citizens of the Republic of Croatia to be in charge abroad, to finance their needs. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3293	I thank you for your response to the rapporteurs. Next up for the replica is a respected colleague of Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3294	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Wolfie, here's what I'm going to try to ask you two questions. I'm sorry it's going to be a trivial way, but I'm going to try and work things out for myself. In previous discussions, there was also two days of debate over the MOST proposal. And today we see that, so it seems to me that the legal definition of your goal of the CNB is to maintain price stability or what you said in your debate now, and that you also praised the stability of the course or stability then in the lives of the citizens, that citizens can feel safe, that their salary is worth as much today as yesterday or the day before. However, one issue has been touched here in the discussions and is related to the growth of industrial production in general, industry, and in particular exports. There have even been heavy accusations that you are actually the brakes of economic growth in the Republic of Croatia, and that is precisely because of the exchange rate of kuna, because all exporters warn that the overestimated exchange rate of kuna actually defends competition on the foreign market actually and then defends exports. Now my question is whether the legal provision is actually holding you back, because you have very clearly defined. You must maintain price stability and then the stability of the course. So you can't tear down the Kuna course. And another reading. When I'm talking about price stability again, and I'm making a little joke, I'm not for price stability if I'm talking about the Internet, if we have the most expensive Internet in the EU. So let's take this sort of thing. If the price of yachts or luxury vehicles falls, and the price of bread and milk rises in some balance when we add everything together like me and Peja, colleague Peja Grbin on average quite tall people, then all on average it turns out to be okay, prices are stable and for you it's ok. Is that okay for you then? or you can do anything else and even with a previous replica when you said you wouldn't actually want to do what isn't your job. I don't know if it's clear enough, but here.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3295	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Sagar, for the replica. The reply to the replica is rapporteur Mr Vujcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3296	Thank you very much. So as far as the course is concerned, I've said the same thing several times already, I'd be most fortunate if the exchange rate were 10 to 1 and the exchange rate was 10 to 1 if all exporters were satisfied and everything remained the same. But it can't stay the same, that's the problem. So, since 160% of Croatia's debt is denominated in the euro each depreciation of the kuna exchange rate towards the euro raises the debt proportionally. So for one percent of the depreciation Croatian debt grows both households and businesses and states. As a result, the depreciation is pro-recessional in such conditions, because if their debt increases they have less available income for household spending, businesses have less money to invest, and the state has to raise taxes and thus increase the tax record to pay off the debt. So that's one reason why we can't allow the depreciation of the course. On the other hand, the financial stability of the banking system is at stake, because if it increases the debt of all these sectors and can't repay loans, then of course we'll have problems in banks, so we'll have to re-recover banks. It happened to us in '92. the years when we had to resuscitate them. You know there was no currency clause in the former Yugoslavia. People were saving in stamps, banks were giving out loans in dinars until it all collapsed together, and then we had to pay dearly. So I said again, let's not go back to Yugoslavia. If that worked, it would still work. We can't do that, that would be wrong. As to whether or not the course is stopping the export, look. Since joining the EU and exporting to Croatia, two-digit numbers have been growing. So the main reason for Croatia's recovery is the growth of exports, and the main determiner of the growth of these exports is not exchange rate change, but EU accession. We got a final access to the 500 million people market that all countries had before us, and we didn't normally have that we were in a worse position than they were. As regards import prices, energy and food prices fall primarily, meaning energy and food used by the poorest, the highest share of income is spent on energy and food. On the other hand, energy is very important because of our industry. It consumes the same amount of energy, although the input costs are falling and that is why trade conditions are improving at the moment for Croatia, and therefore the export was ultimately the main generator of Croatia's exit from recession, and now it is only being fueled by the optimism of households where people saw new jobs opening and are now ready to spend more And that's, now we've entered this good cycle that... [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3297	I thank you for your response to Mr. Vujcic. With this, we've exhausted the replicas from this report. Does the committee reporter perhaps want to take the floor? No, I don't. Thank you very much. We're moving on to debates. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club for the debate, distinguished colleague Grozdana Peric appeared, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3298	Dear Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Governor and Vice Governors. In the name of the HDZ Representatives Club, I'll give you a brief overview of what you've said and written. What you may not have mentioned, and it is important to say that we could look at the overall state of the economy, we should actually have some parameters of the world economy movement which also continued to grow in the second half of 2015. You yourself have now said in the replica that the drop in the price of crude oil and other raw materials actually led to this growth in part, but that growth was slightly weaker in the first half of 2015 while in the second something stronger. There was also a weaker growth of the economy and otherwise economic growth in developing countries and in emerging markets and there was a certain restructuring of the Chinese economy while at the same time the countries of the net oil exporters Russia and the Latin American countries were still affected by the recession. We can now mention the impact of the American economy that has caused the crisis in its own time, and now it has actually improved significantly in this period and their growth is 2.4% where American monetary policy holders have actually shown by increasing the range of the reference interest rate from 0.25 to 0.5 that, in fact, America and the United States have come out of the financial crisis. In our environment, the European Central Bank has maintained a key interest rate at zero level and what has continued continues to continue until March 2017, according to your report on the purchase of bonds on the secondary market of at least 60 billion euros per month. What's working on us and what's important is our environment that relates to our immediate neighbourhood, all of Croatia's external and trade partners except Serbia achieved economic growth in the second half, with the most pronounced growth in Slovenia, then Germany as well as Austria and Italy. Of course, all of this and Croatia's entry into the EU actually opened up the possibilities of what you said increased both our exports and improved environmental status. What I would refer to is very detailed in this report, and I would refer to the economic activity in Croatia that continued to grow in the second half of 2015 and for the sake of favourable movements in the export of services, investments and personal consumption. At the second-year level, economic activity was 2.4% higher than in the same period of the previous year, while 1.6% growth was reported at year-on-year. In 2015, total exports of goods and services were 9.2% higher than that achieved in the previous year so that this category of aggregate demand contributed most to the start of the economic recovery in the past year. The growth of personal consumption is actually the reason for the increase in the average net salary of cca 2% and this personal consumption has actually increased by 1.2% compared to previous years. Gross fixed capital investments have also increased by 1.6% and the rate of investment growth, which is very important, compared to the previous 3.7% was the rate of investment growth, which has been the highest since 2008. When we talk about unemployment, we're still burdened with being very unemployed. However, according to the latest data seasonald in December 2015, it was 16.4% and in June it was 17%. However, certain shifts and certain dynamics are very much felt. I said earlier that the growth in personal consumption increased primarily because there was an increase in personal income, or income, and this intervention that occurred with a certain mini tax reform, while the overall consumer opportunities of the household also increased the number of employees and the decline in energy and food prices. When we talk about the growth of gross added value, then we can say in the aggregate offer itself that in the second half of 2015 is an increase of 1.9%, and the acceleration of growth at the whole economy in relation to the first term is almost fully determined by a strong increase in gross domestic value in industry. The labour market marked a favourable movement, so in the second half the number of employees continued to grow so that the third and fourth quarter bodies actually reduced the number of unemployed, and employment increased, so that employment was up 1% compared to the same period in 2014. If we look at how much inflation there is, you mentioned something about it before, the average annual rate of consumer price inflation was negative in the second half of 2015 and was 0.7% in the first half of the year, while the first half was minus 0.7% in the negative 0.2%. When we talk about foreign policy and foreign trade and competitiveness, then we can say, and you also mentioned that the balance of the current balance of payments improved, so in 2015, a surplus of 3.5 billion euros was achieved in the second half. The surplus in the international exchange of services increased by 7.3% in the second half of 2015 compared to the same period of the previous year and was largely fuelled by the growth of travel services revenue with a marked growth of physical indicators. This reportedly suggests that tourism and the number of arrivals of foreign guests that increased by 9.4%, and the number of overnight stays by 7.9% greatly affected our overall balance sheet. Under the conditions of high liquidity of the monetary system, domestic state financing costs in the second half of 2015 have been retained at extremely low levels. You were also talking about interest rates, and normally we have to admit that interest rates are indeed historically lowest in this period and that this is very important for the stability of the entire financial and financial market system. The interest risk in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the average interest rate on newly approved housing loans, was the same in the first half of the year for the first five months, with a higher share of newly approved kuna loans, whose interest rates are on average and further maintained at higher levels compared to euro loans. We are all still under the influence of the Swiss impression and all that has happened over the past period, but we still have to say that these were actually individual assessments and what you said intervention can be done through the change of the entire system or the Law on Mandatory Relations. What I would like to say, given the whole set which is very detailed here, I would only say that by 2013, and you mentioned that in the report, the regulation of interest rates in Croatia allowed so-called. administrative interest rates which allowed banks to change interest rates on existing loans depending on internal procedures. That's where the whole problem came from, and it's all about the Swiss franc loans themselves. However, by way of effect of the Consumer Credit Act 2013, the administrative interest rate was replaced by the variable in which banks were obliged to attach to some variable parameters. Different parameters exist. Therefore, the summed currently low interest rates and the formal disappearance of the administrative interest rate did not eliminate the interest risk. Today, however, all banks offer fixed interest rate loans and some specific security instruments against interest risk. We must admit that in monetary policy indeed the CNB continued to implement expansional monetary policy and increased the liquidity of the monetary system thus actually calming down the pressure on the foreign market and the monetary market and maintaining stability of our currency. I'd just end up with everything that's very detailed here listed actually said even though this report is historic and we can't say that CNB was doing a bad job. I would just like to say that the task in the future is to further strengthen trust in our financial system and continue to maintain actually the price of capital at a lower and possibly lower level. That, here is the latest information that the unemployment rate fell compared to last September 2015, that it is now 12.8 or 12.6%, meaning it continues to fall and that, by trusting in the overall economic and financial system, it will bring improvement to all of us and the further goal must be to reduce imports and increase GDP in any case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3299	I thank my esteemed colleague Grodani Peric for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a respected counterpart Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3300	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Peric, you have made a fine introduction in your presentation of how different countries and economies and monetary policies have affected economic growth in America, in some other European and not European countries, but I am also interested in what is in Croatia, what you have done and how people live in Croatia. And the fact is that it is very difficult to live, that there is a large number of those on the border, on the edge of poverty, and that the highest risk and poverty rate is right in Slavonia and Baranja and other underdeveloped regions and that this policy nationalised through the National Bank and other institutions has led to the fact that we have 350 thousand blocked and that they simply do not have purchasing powers. So it hurts me and others when we hear that for one exit unit one unit could introduce a unit and a half or two units in the Republic of Croatia that's good for Croatia. That's why we have a drop in milk production, a drop in meat production, a drop in egg production, which is why our flower producers couldn't sell flowers these days. So we can't boast that with the increased imports and the fall of food prices, we will stabilise life in the country of Croatia and provide a better and better quality life for our citizens. The National Bank and monetary policy must be a tool to the state in economic growth and development, and that is what these indicators say is not. There's also talk of the downfall of the unemployed. So let's ask ourselves whether the decline in unemployment is because 100,000 young people have moved out of Croatia. You're talking about employment growth, O.K., but you know that most of the work contract is for a certain time, for a year, six months, can these people plan their future? I can't, must our national policy, monetary policy and all other policies change? We had no situation that the National Bank, the Ministry of Finance and other competent state bodies were partners to address this situation and this was done by the European Union through Juncker's plan and other plans. Where are our plans to raise the quality of life in Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3301	I thank my esteemed colleague Vlaovic for his replica. Reply to the replica, dear colleague Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3302	Yes, my colleague, I mentioned that the decline in imports occurred and that it was one of the factors that actually improved and in one way raised economic growth. And in any case, the intensity of all of us, as well as monetary policies, fiscal and all other policies, must be very controlled. And what I mentioned by the downfall of oil and oil prices has affected prices within our system can actually only contribute that our cost of production is much lower and that in that case we are really competitive and that we do not reach for the imports of the products of those that we can secure on our market. And, however, I am the first one to work hard and want our market and our producers to find a place not only in the Croatian and Croatian markets but also in Europe. As far as working and status contracts are concerned, these are facts on the movement and decline of numbers, or unemployment rates. I'm not saying that there are no elements and those in there that you said our young people were going out. I sincerely hope that this will be taken care of. This cannot be taken into account only by the CNB, in the end it is not within the scope of their activities but it is within the scope of the activities of all other institutions that we, together with those institutions, must also make sure that legal frameworks are created in which these labour contracts will be of quality and not to be contracts of a work that will then be of no quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3303	I thank my esteemed colleague Peric for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3304	Thank you very much, colleague Peric, in your debate, you've technically analyzed it, so it's not clear and it's actually very important what HDZ thinks specifically about the work of the CNB, it would be good to hear here, what he thinks especially about the situation around the Swiss franc. Since it seems to me that HDZ has had similar reserves as the CNB has to do with the Swiss franc's solution and still has them regardless of how much the law supports 5 to 12. These are the things that Croatian citizens need to hear here. Another interesting thing is that today we have this debate on the CNB and the report and in the law that we discussed yesterday is seeking a vote on acceptance or not acceptance. Since I'm assuming that you're to be included in the law, it's strange that today we're discussing it a day later without such a vote. So it would be good if we had waited with this report and then had the opportunity to vote on whether or not we accepted it because this is how it gets the impression that we were pushed back into the small door to get another 6 months, 7 "peace" over that problem. And yet I say here is the impression that HDZ is not the most honest in this part of the cooperation on the Most proposal and please make it clear to the Croatian public whether you are satisfied with the work of the CNB so far, whether you support this vote of acceptance or non-acceptance and why we did not go with this situation as soon as it could be resolved.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3305	I'd like to thank you for the replica of my esteemed colleague, Maras. Reply to the replica, distinguished colleague Grozdana Perić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3306	So we said in the debate itself and in the proposal submitted by MOST for the introduction of a state audit that, in any case, state audit could not be something that would be a distraction in the control of any state institution, although in the Law itself on State Audit it was not, and so it was a parallel change, and then an effort to amend the Law on State Audit, which would cover the entry of a state audit legitimately and legally. As far as CNB's business itself is concerned, I personally believe that all the procedures that have been made and which have been shown here and which have shown these results are quality and correct work in terms of environment. If it could be more and better, it's something that we could judge, and here I think that's what our colleagues expect us to do, then give specific guidelines and demands. And as for the Swiss franc, I think that we are so far under these conditions, in terms of even regulation, I think that this has been done correctly and that a maximum that could have been made in these conditions and that my party has not actually, in any way, made it impossible to solve these problems at all, but that still needs to be kept in these conditions, deep and far more account should be taken of, and there is no end to the story because unfortunately these loans were very long-term and it was actually the whole problem that then dragged everything into the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3307	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Perry, for her reply to the replica. With this, we have exhausted the replicas of this debate. Following a debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Boris Lalovac, reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3308	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, governor with associates, ladies and gentlemen today we have half-yearly information about the financial situation and the implementation of monetary policy. However, the report, which is comprehensively provided certain macroeconomic indicators of the state in 2015, as the year ended. These are given certain indicators of the situation by sectors from exports, imports and a number of other indicators. I'll just take out one part since the comprehensive report and look back on only one part and it's about one current question but that question hasn't been completed yet is the question of the conversion of credit into Swiss francs and the way in which the CNB actually reported this high house through this half-yearly information. Since 2000, around 28 billion kunas have been granted mainly for residential loans in Croatia, that there were around 73 700 credit parties and that in fact some average residential loan amounted to about 82 thousand Swiss francs. Why am I saying that? Because there was a lot of information in public about those who opposed this particular conversion to work, that the conversion took place was the largest share of those who bought, who converted certain boats, yachts, etc. many others, and apparently one of the reasons was where they said they shouldn't go into that particular conversation. If it is seen that the act of conversion itself was 17.9 billion kuna on 30.09.2015, that it was mostly 17.9 billion kuna on housing loans and that only 0.5 billion kuna on non-permanent loans and if we take into this part the average amount of this work of 82 thousand Swiss francs, it is evident that the majority of these loans were actually for the realisation of the housing issue mainly to solve their housing problems. However, here it is seen that this conversion also accepted a larger number of users, i.e. 54.7 thousand, that it accepted about 94%, respectively. And the most important thing is that out of the total number of contracts there were as many as 81% of them in the subscription. It also shows the ratio of those who had these loans in euro and those loans they had in Swiss francs. One thing that surprised me here was that when banks went into conversion, when they mentioned and when they made certain subsequent decisions where banks had laid down those disputed provisions where Franak, and that was the only time the Ministry of Finance had spoken and the Ministry of Justice when it said that there should be no disputed provisions in those decisions, they still kept them until the CNB and the Constitutional Court said that they had to be expelled. And they created an extra cost because they had to reprint 27220 annex contracts. This shows you in this one haughtiness of the banking sector that they did not want to think of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice when we warned them not to stand by those provisions in those contracts that they still held them in those contracts. And only after the Constitutional Court's decision or subsequent subsequent ex post pressure from the CNB did they reject these disputed provisions. But it is important to say that they have already formed an additional cost of 27000 contracts, which were re-recommended by mail, etc. They were creating an extra cost. Who paid that expense again? They've relocated him to the citizens. So let's say again how they did business and how they wanted to participate in this conversion process at all. And here it's very important to say that this is now the first station, because we know that almost this Swiss franc process lasted about 8 to 10 years, and it escalated, escalated there in 2011 and later in 2013. And here I would briefly talk about the risks not only of whether the CNB could or could not have done something, but actually the essential thing about risk management. In fact, the law defining banking business defines that risk management is exclusively a banking business. However, what happened in the Republic of Croatia because you can see that all forms of risk were actually transferred to one side, were transferred to citizens. So the first condition we're talking about is interest risk. The interest risk and the definition of interest rates in the Republic of Croatia has been reduced, i.e. the sources of the purchases, each time due to a certain handling of the business banks and in that part, the total interest risk has been transferred to the risk of the consumer. That's what happens today with the type of euro. So all interest risk in interest risk management is on the citizens. Another type of risk is the risk of exchange rate. Also no matter how much exchange rate you actually take, the entire risk course actually shifts to one side, or shifts to the side of the citizen. The third type of risk, which is the risk of assessing the value of the property, i.e. the collateral which is actually insurance for that part, is also on the user of the credit. So, you took the loan and they rated your credit that at first it was 100,000 euros. If a market failure occurs, the real estate market that anyone has defined prices for most of the real estate part of the business in Croatia is defined by business banks by credit expansion, i.e. by financing the construction sector and pumping money, investing money in the construction sector. What are you doing? You are working in this way to create additional pressure, i.e. the prices at which Croatian citizens bought real estate were up to 2 and a half to 3 thousand euros and thus, because the banks were financing a particular construction sector all the time because it was then determined that they could make a very good profit. When they pulled out of that game, when they said we wouldn't do it anymore, there was a certain credit breakdown, or a breakdown of the real estate market that was not recovered today. And now this price that would cost me 100 grand so it went up to 120 today has dropped to 60 or 70,000 euros. In the bank tell you sory, it is your risk and in fact the overall risk of business that you absolutely had nothing to do as a citizen and at interest and at the price of the capital market and on this construction part you have to bear it. How do you have to deal with that? That if you simply can't get out, or you can't pay the real estate, that means if you get the real estate back here and they're charging you for that difference. So you just can't get out of that one model and if you return the property and if you're paying for everything you pay for, you just can't get out of that model. And then you are even when you return the property you owe them the difference and the market value of the property. And then, in fact, the Croatian Bank Association tells us in this case that there are no evenly distributed costs of conversion of the Swiss franc between citizens and banks. They just don't want to accept the idea, not the idea, but the fact that actually citizens usually carry the biggest part of the risk on them. Banks have absolutely no business risks. When it comes to citizens, do you know where they have problems? They have problems with their customers in real estate businesses in Croatia. And here and those risks that just broke in there, they broke up with very high amounts of outstanding claims in construction business, and that's what these reports say. Because according to the reports, you can see that the largest part of the outstanding claims is in the construction sector. I wouldn't bother those who were in the construction sector again, because they were simply funded in that way. After all, they just lost that part. It's not, like, a lot of unfinished objects, it's just like that. And now the responsibility of the whole process is put in place as they were financed. And then it happens that you just can't get out of that process. And in this way, when we spoke here, it is not true and therefore the arguments of the Croatian government are actually that all the risks or that there is no cost of conversion that should have been evenly distributed. He was evenly distributed because all forms of risk were actually carried by citizens in that part. When I was talking about this construction sector here you have information that they have 26 billion kunas I can't charge for more than a year. So, twenty-six billion kunas of banks here when we're talking about hand-me-downs on page 110, twenty-three billion is about not being able to charge for more than a year. This business cost that the CNB imposed on them because what we've heard here today means they've raised reservations, what we've been saying today is the plasma coverage from about 34%, 35% to 56% actually banks have to cover from somewhere. So, these losses they had in their policies that were simply unorthodox and destroyed most of the Croatian economy because, in fact, in that part of the rental economy, they were expected to make the biggest contribution and the biggest profits, in those losses of 26 billion that they couldn't charge, 0 is a charge, because they can't even sell that property because the real estate market doesn't exist, they just can't come out and they have to go over to someone. They just have to put that burden on someone. Who's been getting him all the time? They turn it all the time to the ones who pay the most loans. Which ones pay the most loans according to this report? Citizens. So the citizens are, look at the share of bad placements in totals is about 6% for euro loans. Because of the conversion of the Swiss franc, i.e. because of the large exchange rate differences that citizens simply couldn't bear because they took two and three incomes per month... 16%. [[You don't understand.]] You know what the plasmas are, the bad ones according to what I told you? Over 50%. And so when you see investment ratios, their investment capital, investment capital of banking capital towards citizens who are returning neatly and their returns are extremely low. Why? Because it's about their existence, they just don't want to and can't get out of these problems. And then we just happen to these situations that citizens carry most of the risk and that the risk generated on other elements, and it's generated on others not to say greedy jobs because you know that in all these jobs, the most important bonuses were. The most important were bonuses in the entire system of financing economic activities. And then the question of the responsibility of the banking sector for the state of the economy in Croatia arises. This story that happened in Croatia is the same story that happened in Great Britain, which happened in the United States, the exact same story. Same model, same mold, same thing happened. What is the difference between Britain, America or Iceland compared to Croatia? Well, they're the ones who got the bill. So someone put the bill out to the bankers. An account was issued in Iceland, an account was issued in the United States. And what are these bankers doing in Croatia? They want to make an account to the Croatian state and make fun of this High House, which has made very important decisions, and one of these very important decisions is the Consumer Credit and Conversion Act that these bankers have unanimously made? It's no use to you, we'll go to Washington, we'll charge ourselves over the line, you can vote in this country whatever you want, you can do whatever you want. Not to say they didn't want to respect the conversion decision at all, so we had to do it through the CNB and pressures to respect it. So this is about a much wider problem than just this particular report. And that is why when we talk about these figures, when we talk about the way the Croatian economy operates and especially the burden of certain risks, we need to talk about full information. Just as full of information that the whole process will not end so quickly. However, we have a problem here, and that is why we called on the CNB to include that Gordian knot to be resolved. He cannot only solve the problem of the Executive Act by acting by the executive authority, there must certainly be monetary authority involved. And that's why I hope there will be other proposals where we will help together the monetary government solve these problems because in this way we will have many years of these reports that we simply won't be able to discuss here or here. As far as I can see from the European Central Bank, do not accidentally discuss such reports or vote. So we are deprived of a certain right to even discuss and ask certain questions that I see certain people especially from that part of the pain. And that's why I think it's very important to create one parliamentary communication in this House of Commons and to bring up all these problems that actually bother Croatian citizens and actually that you don't see in these reports, you just don't see them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3309	I thank my esteemed colleague, Lalovac, for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Maro Kristic, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3310	I thank the chairman. Your esteemed colleague, Lalovac, in your presentation, spoke a lot about the problem of conversion. I will now quote to you a passage from the report of the competent Assembly Committee on Finance and the State Budget which says: “It has been established that the negative forecasts of the CNB from September 2015 that changes to the Consumer Credit Act could compromise the stability of the Croatian kuna and lead to further borrowing in foreign markets.” Therefore, this should be about to mean that in the CNB or the Council of the CNB there are not enough professional people that I do not think, I think, sitting very professional people because such a failure in the forecasts should be very difficult to make. This means, above all, that at the time of the passing of such a law, the CNB actually fully placed itself in the service of foreign banks in relation to the real problems of Croatian citizens. Do you feel that, given one such autistic behaviour of the CNB, it is necessary to strengthen the system of state control over the CNB itself, especially given the fact that when we talk about the control system, it is approximately what countries it is that ranked this surveillance system, so we can say that countries that have full control over all and central banks and business banks supervised by the central bank are Germany, Spain, France, Cyprus, the Netherlands, Malta, Denmark, Poland and Sweden. The full supervision of the central bank is still in Estonia, Ireland, Portugal and Romania, and a slightly looser control is in Austria, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Slovakia, Bulgaria, Lithuania and Slovakia, while without control rights or with major restrictions and regulations on Greece, Latvia, Finland, Luxembourg, Croatia and the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3311	The reply to the replica, dear colleague of Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3312	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I thank you for asking the question of your esteemed colleague, counsellor. Well, yeah, we opened the debate yesterday, and I think the governor heard us, and that's why he came here today. The question would have come if it hadn't been for a debate yesterday was whether we could testify more times when we talked about half-yearly information to get a third echelon or a fourth echelon into this House and that's why it's good to hear some answers today, and today we heard them, but in his opening statement on his view of the revision, so we see if this differs from the position on the European Central Bank. Unfortunately, I haven't been able to get an answer if it agrees with the letter of the European Central Bank, but I hope that all of us here yesterday have expressed our disdain for such a letter and I hope that the same way as you are going to answer, that perhaps the CNB should answer so, to set up to say gentlemen in the European Central Bank, we are the CNB, we respect the Parliament who voted us is who are the shareholders of the CNB? This is the men. So we're a congregation, right, because we choose them, so we're in this without a home over which they actually need to answer. And all the specific problems we have can be solved in our own backyard. It is not good that certain issues such as the legitimate rights of MPs to ask questions, to propose laws, to interfere with absolutely other institutions, to give us the sense of what we should, which we should not do as if we were Malta, we do not know what we are doing, as if they were taking better care of Croatia than we are. Here is their response that the ECB will take better care of Croatia than the Croatian Parliament does. So certainly another support related to the law and for this supervision I think it will only increase the transparency of the business of Croatian institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3313	Thank you very much. Second replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3314	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In your debate, you said several things that interested me, one of them is that similar to the problems of crediting citizens and the real estate sector were both in Iceland and America, with banks taking part of the cost there and making them an account, and they showed much more responsibility than in Croatia. I'm more specifically interested in you saying that. And on the other hand, what I am interested in, we had a problem with the Swiss franc, and one part of the people in the CNB warned that when the product went to the market, the governor warned the Croatian citizens rather than take it, but I am interested in why in your opinion there was no CNB reaction at the time as it was in the case of the adoption of the Consumer Credit Act when the government was exposed and the written pressure of the CNB that the law was not passed. Why, say, banks when loans were made in Swiss francs, why didn't the CNB send such a memo to all banks? Don't give out such credits, don't create such a product. Why didn't he forbid them to make such a product what he could have done? But when the reverse situation occurred, when banks "had to lose", and I say they lost nothing but also earned over the past 10, 20 years, then we got written material from the CNB don't do it, and then the banks didn't get anything. And I'm interested in your opinion, which is why the CNB's interest was so much in this situation, and when it came to helping citizens in a way that did not offer such a product, the reaction was lagging behind.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3315	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, dear colleague of Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3316	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So that a specific case regarding the business of the bank in America was to you when they placed those loans with variable interest and then it happened to you that they were also very similar to that of Croatia, so by the same methods they worked. People who didn't satisfy a certain credit option were shrinking interest rates, repacking into another form, a credit form, and then being placed on the market, and then what actually happened happened. But you know how it ended with them? Not that the banks sued the United States, the U.S. government, but they were invited by the Justice Department to invite them better than the FBI invited them, and then they sat down at the Justice Department and then they said you'd pay this country in a five-billion-dollar budget. It's a deal between the U.S. Department of Justice and the banks that they're paying to deposit five billion dollars on behalf of that bank and they said don't press charges. See what happens in Croatia. On the contrary, it happens exactly the opposite, you boast, you are threatened, you are now trying what you are looking at in recent times that they will withdraw all their branches and will open them in Austria, etc., by these countries. And you see from this report what they did again this year. Again 2.5 billion sent to Austria dividends, last year billions and 800, last year, etc., as long as Croatia squished in debt, not only citizens and businesses, but also the economy. Now if someone proves to me economically, if the economy falls 5 or 10% and they draw dividends a year 10 billion a year when they've been pulling out I have to admit that something probably doesn't work out, that citizens understand, we understand here, it's only in the CNB's report that everything is okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3317	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished counterpart Zeljko Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3318	Dear colleagues, we all agree I think the banking system is one integral part of the overall system of national security. I have some questions, I as a layman economically have no answer, I've asked some people, maybe Mr. Lalovec is ready to answer those questions... These refugee escapes from the CNB. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is how I would ask myself primarily if the CNB controls all credit institutions in Croatia how it is possible that a parallel banking system is created, and that is clear evidence of these 330 thousand people under the blockade, these green contracts that have no basis for domestic civil law at all. First, that's the first question that's possible. The second question we have here is another Podokinov... The village, for example, is well written, economically... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] but there is one article 7 I think, chapter 7, money flows between Croatia and abroad. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How much in reality is the grey economy present in Croatia, how much money is being drawn from here. You have one institution that I mentioned several times and should be mentioned again, Global Financial Integrity which proves that it was extracted from Croatia between 2006 and 2013. 34 billion dollars,... A dollar bigger than direct war damage. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] First of all, who is responsible for this post communist disorientation that the people are studying on financial literacy? It wasn't in one party system. Who canceled the financial school? Other countries have financial police. You just haven't paid your taxes, they come to you at 3:00 in the morning, and you're locked up, and good-bye, adios. Those are some of those questions. And I don't think it's appropriate to put in place a comment one in the end that we mention, say, Germany and other countries and where private property has never been annulled and all private property has been annulled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3319	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, dear colleague of Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3320	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, you're right, in one part of the business where one part of the limit was for the growth of credit activities through the CNB when they limited the credit boom when there was a lot of cheap money on the market, there was a lot of it there since 2000 when they actually funded. Certain groups, certain groups, and we know from them from Austria actually funded by, so not only in this part of the entire banking sector have funded our citizens along the Croatian coast. And I think in that part, there's one of the biggest horrors that's going to be paid off for a long, long time, we have to, we don't know how to get rid of it. So that's the part where people through RBA cooperatives got a part of the money so directly then the question was how it was transferred across the border and financed. However, if we were to ask that particular question then in that part of the country, no one knows about it or washes it or we can't work it out, etc. So we have a big problem here. If the CNB cannot ban such funding in the future and here we have heard that they can ban some speculative attacks on Croatia because we are a small sensitive economy. You, when someone comes in with such money in Croatia with 10 or 20 or 50 million euros, it affects Croatian citizens very much, it feels in Croatia. We're not America to feel anything with $50 million. And now that you have such hot money in Croatia, you know you have no credit, that they simply offered these people and took the mortgages of that house. When you have an example of the Swiss franc that is actually seen here, 28 billion kuna is funded, the question is raised or we have big problems with the Croatian National Bank or with our laws. Because it's impossible for us in one part of our economy for 10 years to be destroyed by our citizens in such a debt slave relationship and in fact that no one in this country is responsible or even allowed to ask questions about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3321	Thank you very much. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3322	Thank you very much. As former finance minister, you saw in the CNB report that everything is booming. Obviously, that's what the report says. Now whether this is realistic, unreal, you will better recognise it, say it has the biggest profit in Europe of all and similar institutions in the EU. They forget to mention the impact and real results of imports on interest-banks which, not in the home countries of banks operating in Croatia, agriculture, economy, undeveloped areas, are the CNB, what about gold? Is it possible that an institution is trying to get parliamentary representatives, instead of saying that, you have the right to vote, the people have chosen you, you are parliamentarians, you are those to whom the people have delegated that voice, the electron, that it is so much opposition that even European officials plan through the obvious exclusively from within the CNB to tell who you are, so you have no right to discuss it. But the people chose us, it's reality, we have the right to vote as well for all other institutions. So when we look at interest overnight, 30%. Raiffeisen's cooperatives of what they do to people, conquer, once a rifle conquered the territory now with these loans conquer our territory of foreign banks. The Franak Association fought in the Administrative Court, the High Administrative Court for what it kept secret about banks and the operation of national banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3323	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3324	Thank you very much. Well, you're actually in your question, actually, and through my kind of exposure, we've actually asked the question of social responsibility and the entire banking system and the CNB within the entire package. Because what's actually happening is actually being said, and you can actually see through their indicators that most of the uncharging plasmas, that's what we're saying all the time, it didn't happen to you in agriculture, it didn't happen to you in the industry, it didn't happen to you to the one that creates added value. So it happened in certain groups of speculators who actually made and tried to resell, buy or make certain contributions from funding so that they could get certain loans very quickly and thus place. And that is why the question is raised here, and tomorrow we will have a report from the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. So what you can't go through in banks and it would be normal to go to banks if someone buys a machine, if someone buys something to produce, if someone wants to create added value to get that loan. This cannot be credited to banks, such must come to the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which is refinanced through the budget. So we have a completely impaired system. However, if you want to make any big ones to come without 20 thousand kunas company, is there a lot of them, I was talking about it, 6 billion kunas of non-refundable claims that have been blocked in FINA applies to only 100 Croatian citizens, 100 Croatian citizens. Now somebody tell me these knowers who know how to run banks out there, who do good work so someone could get 100 billion kunas, 6 billion kunas just these 100? I go as a former minister, I probably have that overrun to minus 15, 20,000 kuna, and that's it. So we have absolutely a lot of problems, I did those things when I was minister of speech. These are real problems and ways of financing the Croatian economy because they are not people from the agriculture industry.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3325	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the esteemed colleague Blaženko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3326	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Lalovac, listening to your exposure, I have truly realized that a thread is being passed throughout the exhibition and that the primary monetary policy is the protection of citizens, protection of craftsmen, entrepreneurs and that this should be an integral part of the CNB's monetary policy. Very nice, very good but what has offered me on the line is, in the previous presentation of our representative, Mrs. Peric, he has replicated Mr. Maras, asking for the position and opinion of our decided bench and her personally, and I am going to say as I am interested in the position and opinion of the president of your club on this issue, regarding yesterday's agenda point here and finally what is the position of the president of your club in general on the monetary policy of the CNB? Is that the kind of person you brought out here on behalf of the club or some other leading concern that on July 8, 2012, this is the one that Governor Vujčić here, who is standing before us under the bat of the then Prime Minister and today's president of your club, became governor of the CNB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3327	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3328	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I can't answer your question about the president of my club that's not in the House today. I always talk here primarily on my own behalf and on behalf of when I was elected by the SDP to speak on behalf of the SDP club. We don't always have to agree as much as the HDZ club probably doesn't agree with Mrs. Dalic and Mr. Goran Maric on the CNB issue, so we don't ask you the same question, I didn't ask you what the opinion of the president of your club is when Mr. Goran Maric speaks or when Mrs. Martina Dalic speaks. So each of us has an opinion. I think it's a good thing we're discussing this. No one should be offended by the gentlemen sitting there on the sidelines if we make certain criticisms and suggestions. So we're not talking about anyone in person here, but we're saying that we have big problems that we talked about here in Croatian society, and it's going to be very hard for your government to work, it's going to be very hard to work, it's going to be a certain economic growth that we need of 4.5% because you heard what the governor said today, we're at historically low interest rates. What if these interest rates start to go, 2 or 3, 4% up? We haven't solved the essential problems yet, and today I've talked here about these essential problems where the banks have gone crazy, where there is still, and I can't get my money out in which way they're still transferring it to the citizens, and this growth I hope it will last. But he can be very short-lived. And here we haven't solved the fundamental problem of economic and fiscal, or monetary policy, we haven't solved it, and that's why it's good to talk about it. Because if this growth lasts for a while, and we are very much at high levels of debt and states and citizens and businesses, we will find ourselves in very difficult problems. And here today we have only opened one part of the issue and the impact of the banking sector and monetary policy on the economy. And that's why I'm telling you everyone has an opinion, I've been giving my opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3329	Thank you. I'm sorry, there's still another replica, but I haven't been written down by my dear colleague Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3330	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I raised my hand among the first, and I accept my apology. You said in your discussions yesterday that the governor, I think if I'm wrong, I apologize, but I think you said he was acting in this situation as a meteorologist, that he just announced that there was a problem, that there was a storm coming, a storm change in the Swiss course that had swept our fellow citizens' pockets. And that's why we have a difficult situation like this. And you also mentioned that the decline in credit activities in the economy and that the highest placement went towards a citizen who neatly returns his loans as much as he can, which is certainly not good for Croatia because we have a situation where we have a drop in economic production, a decline in total production. And so my question to you is where that place and role is, if the CNB hasn't already responded, where that place and the role of the government, the Minister of Finance, the other competent state bodies, why it didn't react, but now it's just as if you're a quality doctor, the interns have given a nice diagnosis but you haven't given any way to cure it, to get out of this situation. So my question, and all of our citizens, is how to solve this situation with the debt slavery of our citizens, with which monetary policy and other policies to raise the economy. Those are the real questions we have to open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3331	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3332	Thank you very much, Vice President. I appreciate the question. Yes, very specific about the policies that the government has made and which I think, but that's a small part of what has actually been done in this whole thing. And here I mentioned HBOR. It is not normal for me to simply, when you come into the banking sector, you cannot get a crafts credit or for a small company, etc., that this must be financed exclusively by HBOR. HBOR has its capacities. We injected in HBOR over 3 billion kunas of additional core capital and that part we have now reached a certain limit somewhere near 7 billion kuna and HBOR has actually funded one part of such. However, he cannot carry the whole economy and this will now create a problem for you. What did we want to do next? We wanted to further capitalize HBOR because we saw that the banking sector has an absolute risk aversion. What did the European Commission say to us? You can no longer capitalise on HBOR, it will now be managed under budget and will have now, which is a big problem, and we haven't talked about it yet it will have a problem this government that from Brussels wants HBOR to be under the supervision of the Croatian National Bank, which means that it will have to act exclusively in all these regulations as business banks do. You know what's gonna happen to you in that part? It will absolutely stand in the way of funding both towards agriculture and small craftsmen and towards the whole of this part of the public who cannot get credit through business banks. Now that's the question that's probably going to open up here. We fought hard against it. So we're through investment, and you'll see in HBOR's report 80% actually made investments, HBOR gave investments. And also related to these answers. I've offered multiple times, so the way these questions can be solved. You know we've been reducing and tightening the interest rate, that we wanted to, and it didn't work out here to close the principal first. Because we found ourselves in a debt slavery we'll never be able to close, because first we should actually close the principal, and then we get to a tight interest. Because the one who doesn't, he'll never be able to get the interest. 'Cause we've met. in one problem, so there's a lot about it. [[Intruder Jandroković: Time is up.]] I hope we can talk more about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3333	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. The next is the "Live Wall" MP Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3334	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected guests from the CNB. Today we need to discuss half-yearly information, so this document that we received two days ago. And so it is about one document that is well written, in a grammatical sense it looks neat and what is most interesting of all even precisely showing the situation in the Croatian economy. Since it is correct, we could call it an autopsy in a certain way, because this is an analysis of a lifeless being, therefore, of a Croatian economy. It clearly states here that Croatia's debt is abnormal, that it is increasing and that Croatia is one step towards the Greek scenario. It says that on page 41, if I'm not mistaken, 42. Among other things, it says quite clearly here that interest will increase to citizens and that they will increasingly be harder to repay their loans, moreover that they will not be able to repay them so that the number of operations, the number of executions and blockades will increase. It also says that Croatian exports have increased slightly, but imports have increased further. It means no matter how much Croatian exports grow, so many imports are able to overcome them. And it all says nicely, but it doesn't write two important things, and that's who's to blame and what solutions are possible for this situation to finally end. And it is one large part of the Croatian National Bank, which has been implementing a catastrophic monetary policy for 22 full years since the signing of the Mastric Agreement, in which the main goal as we hear is to hold the exchange rate at 7 and a half kuna for one euro. The course is completely unrealistic, and prices are completely unstable. Mr Vujčić, go to any store in Zagreb and see what the prices are. They're all down by 20, 30, 40, 50, 70%. Why do prices go down? Well, because they're not realistic. So there are no products in Croatia that are not sold on some kind of action. Your fixed rate of 7 and a half kuna for one euro reminds me of a picture where I would have to wear a winter coat for 365 days a year, because everything must be strictly frozen at one point and we must not move left or right because something terrible is supposed to happen. Have you studied the work of the Czech National Bank? Are you studying the work of the Swiss National Bank? Well, that's where the francs stand 24 hours a day. And the American central bank. What did the European Central Bank do when it saw the situation in the economy as difficult? She printed 1600 billion euros. And you didn't print 5 kunas in 22 years except for those kunas you traded for the euro this country borrowed. In addition to all this CNB carried out criminal activities, gentlemen of the CNB all of you should be replaced from first to last and not bring you an audit but bring you judicial authorities to answer who sold Croatian banks to foreigners by 5% to 10% of the value after being recovered from Croatian taxpayers' money. What do you have in mind? If 92% is saving Croatian citizens in other people's hands. Who sold Croatian gold below the price when gold was cheapest in 2005 and thus caused billions of damage in the Croatian economy and citizens? Who allowed toxic loans in Swiss francs, illegal interest? Why do you allow the cost of processing credits, a classic parafiscal charge that doesn't exist anywhere in Europe? Why are you robbing Croatian citizens? Come on out, I'll take you for a walk tonight. Imported by the gallery. It's close by, imported by the center, so you can see the people sleeping on the floor. Did you see pictures like that 22 years ago, you're old enough? Do you remember when you were young? Do you remember dragging people down the floor while they were being kicked out of their homes? You don't remember that. But you're willing to wise up here about the monetary policy carried out by some former CNB administration. You did, and you are personally responsible for all of you in the CNB for the crime against the Croatian people, the crime of execution and blockades, homeless, debt slavery and non-refundable loans. In order to pay off debts created by an unrealistic exchange rate and a currency clause today, Croatia must give its assets, we must give the infrastructure of Končar, Podravka and not count. We had to hand over not only our banks, but our best companies. Tomorrow we'll teach what? Islands like Greece, airports, railways, roads? We're giving Brijuni in concessions and Plitvice Lakes? As we are now giving our houses, gardens, gardens to pay debts to which there is no end. You are, of course, laughing at all of it, you care not about me but about the entire Croatian Parliament because you are protected as face bears from those whose orders you obey, and that is not the Croatian Parliament. And you think this condition will last forever. Well, he won't. You see, the Croatian people have chosen a Branimir Bunjc to the Parliament, and soon more will be from the Living Wall. You won't last forever, think about it. So you also claim that Croatia's deficit is 2%, which is confirmed by the finance minister who came from the same mile as you and will return there. If the revenues of the Croatian budget are 113 billion kuna, and we are paying back the debt at the annual level of 27 billion kuna, can you explain to me how 27 out of 113 2%? So 27 out of 113 is 2%? I think 2% of 113 would be about 2, 3 or 5 billion kuna but not 27. But you're showing foreign debt payments in some separate accounting. It's not a government debt that's here's some debt that I hid in my drawer. And who's paying him? Croatian taxpayers. Therefore, the course that you are already 22 years old is unrealistic and needs to be changed urgently. He needs to be brought into real life. Not by hyper inflation, of course, that you want to plant all the time, alluding to the former Yugoslavia, but by targeted inflation. I repeat, like the Czech Republic. She crashed the crown course by 10% in 2013. The Czech Republic repeats there are 4% unemployed today, 21% VAT, twice as strong and more competitive its economy than Croatia, 20% is a Czech standard than the standard of Croatian citizens. Euro, yesterday, or the day before yesterday, the director of the European Central Bank told you that Croatia is not for the euro, not only the euro but generally Mediterranean countries, that this is the wrong and missed policy. Give up the euro, we have the kuna. In the long term, this is certainly the best and safest solution Croatia has. In addition, credit the Croatian economy with credits of 0.5%, participate in this and do not allow foreign-owned business banks to do this for you. Start the issue of cancelling the privatisation of Croatian banks. It wasn't privatisation, it was El Dorado for those thieves in the face of politicians who became billionaires for small money. So consider the case of Dubrovnik Bank, renovated with 3 billion and 600,000 kuna of Croatian taxpayers and sold for 200 million. The destruction of the Rijeka Bank, your governor predecessor Marko Škreb in '99. For years, he knew that the Bank of Rijeka was going bankrupt. He hid that information. Remove the currency clause, protect Croatian citizens from these interest rates that will grow on page 49, so they will grow. What are you doing? Do you know what it means to increase interest rates by 2% for ordinary Croatian citizens? So now they have no bread; where will they have after these increase in interest? You warn them, who, say, comes a sick man from cancer oncologist, and he tells him I told you not to smoke. Well, it's on your box. It's not your job to get smart, it's your job to do something, save lives for it you get paid. The CNB must return to Croatian hands. It is not currently neither Croatian, nor folk. She's some sort of supposedly independent bank, so change the board over there to the CNB and write an independent bank. Independent of what? My colleague Pernar said that Governor Rohatinski himself told him that he didn't decide anything at the CNB. If you decide anything to the governor in that National Bank, or if you're just one wheel in a system that grinds and leads this country into regulation. In economic downfall, social failure and what is the worst of all in the way in which Croatia will lose what is most valuable of all, and these are people. I want to tell you here now that I told you the way that Croatia can go and I'm sure and it's already my heart in place that in ten or twenty years this speech of mine will be like a ball on your leg. I'm not a prophet, but I'm telling you this prophesyingly, and you're just continuing to implement this policy that brought Croatian society and the state to the very edge of the abyss, and don't say that I didn't tell you now. I'll meet you, Mr. Wolfie. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3335	We have three replicas on this exhibit. The first replica is the esteemed colleague Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3336	Dear fellow MPs, the Honorable Governor, Mr. Vujcic. Well, I would like to say that by listening to the presentation of colleagues of Bunjca, we see that there are many problems in society and the question of your role is raised in all of this. Governor Rohatinski told me to the young man I've decided about everything at least, I believe that neither you nor your predecessor decide much or that you are where you are just to implement a policy that is implemented. that it's not your decision to create a policy, it's just to implement what we're being imposed on. It is clear from the plane that you are not independent and independent in your work because even if you want to implement a different monetary policy, your National Bank Act makes it impossible. I believe that it is urgent to amend the National Bank Act, restore the possibility to finance directly from the central bank and that your mandate should be made available to the Croatian Parliament or that the Parliament has the right and the opportunity to vote against you. The bottom line of the whole story is the next one, you have to implement the policy imposed by the EU, and in return, the EU binds our hands that we cannot change you. And we're actually in a stalemate position in a position from which we outwit each other, and while we outwit people every day end up with blocked accounts and disintegrated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3337	The answer to the replica is the representative of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3338	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course the CNB does not run its own policy, she argues it is impossible, but there are more examples. Why did Hungary lift the currency clause depreciated forint and hit banks with taxes? Why is the Hungarian economy growing more than Croatian today? Also, why did Poland dare? Why do Poland today call a hit state in Europe by its economy? Were they afraid to bring order into their people's bank and enter an open conflict with foreign banks that do not work in favour of the Polish economy? These are examples of transition states. We do not have to follow the examples of America or I do not know Japan, we should compare ourselves with those countries that were in communism as well as the former Yugoslavia and draw from these examples some positive examples that Croatia should follow. But above all, Croatia must be an independent and sovereign state, and it is definitely not with such monetary policy. We see the results and evidence of such a claim everywhere around us wherever we turn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3339	Thank you. The next representative to report for the replica is agent Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3340	Thank you very much. Here's Mr. Bunjac, I'm really fascinated, and I'm glad you have such a high social sensitivity and that you're trying so hard to show how no one else thinks about it and doesn't care. Do you know which in the structure of the debtor of these 20,000 in which the institutions are these debtors, in fact, which is the most? Well, the most debtors were to the teleopers and all the other believers were in small numbers. And this has been shown in those attempts to find ways to reach agreements with local self-government units, with banks, etc. to make it easier for debtors to pay their commitments. The fact is that the most debtors are to the teleopers, although we are not downplaying the fact that, assuming that all these 70,000 people who have raised loans in Swiss are obliged, which is probably not but these are facts. On the other hand, do you also know that some of the top financial experts have raised loans in Swiss francs even though it is known and that is the basis, the alphabet actually means that loans in Swiss francs are not raised for long-term loans.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3341	Thank you. The answer to the replica is the representative of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3342	As far as I'm aware, most of the executions are due to the HRT subscription, means over 100,000 executions. On the other hand, loans, as regards the performance of real estate, should be said more in favour of the thesis on the dishonesty of banks when you have a case that almost every third property in Croatia that has been purchased by a loan to threaten it. Only last year was 6 grand so the properties that ended up on top. Therefore, the claim that the citizens had telephoned, which is why the debt crisis broke out and therefore they came to a blockade is extremely hypocritical. If you don't know how the citizens live here, I'll take my time, so I'll walk you through any street in the Republic of Croatia, and you'll notice that every street is sold. at least 10 properties and at least 10...... [[I'd like to ask for some peace.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3343	Excuse me, Your Honor, Mr. Bunjac, I'm sorry, just a moment. I'm asking you to listen to a legitimate representative at the moment when a representative gives his reply, please. Mr. Bunjac, do you want to continue or not? The next representative to report for the replica is representative Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3344	Thank you, dear Vice President. Your esteemed colleague, Bunjac, spoke of the non-creation of the CNB, and I spoke yesterday about the sins of the CNB. As the Austrian National Bank did so to Croatian banks, the CNB had to warn its debtors of the risks arising from this, and eventually the CNB could also ban the Swiss franc currency clause and any currency clause other than the euro that the CNB did so, we would not have the franc case. The second major sin of the CNB is that even today, it holds a lot of banks in the manipulation of interest rates, banks in over 100,000 loans did not agree with their debtors the way the interest rate changes, the CNB tolerates it, does not want to prosecute banks for it and it is unfortunate and it is devastating and it is a disaster for this country and it is a disaster for a bank called the People's Bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3345	Thank you. Now we pause the session for a while and this point, we'll continue it later. Before further discussion of the information provided by the CNB. I urge the committees to discuss the points of their jurisdiction Tuesday so that they can continue the plenary session on Wednesday 9.11. at 9.30. The follow-up to Wednesday's work is with the HBOR's annual financial report, followed by proposals of the law, the thirteenth draft law, fourteenth. We're continuing the debate. Next up is the Club of Representatives "Let's Change Croatia", "SNAGA". On their behalf, representative Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3347	My colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats to allow my colleague Lovrinović, on behalf of the Representatives' Club, to say what he is up to. Here's my colleague, Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3348	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Governor, co-workers, respected MPs and MPs. Here. I hope this interested public will have the peace to hear what I mean. [[Intruder Reiner: Please a little peace!]] On the contrary, sometimes you should be quiet, sometimes that. Thank you very much. You see, in life, there are things we don't see, they're destroying us. It's viruses, bacteria, we need to see them under a microscope, we need to be experts to see what's doing us harm to recognize it, so we need to talk to a doctor who's a specialist. It is very similar to the economy, and especially in the field of monetary policy that the exchange rate and interest rate destroy people, destroy families quietly. They're silent killers, and people don't understand how. They create debt slaves. We've seen how the currency clause, the wilding of courses, also destroy people and family, and all this is the result of bad governance in this case of monetary credit policy that something here was talking about. My goal is as a university professor who deals with 26 years of monetary policy, international finance to look back on these issues because so far it's been pretty easy to talk about, to paint a world where we don't really live. But now the situation in Parliament has changed. Based on what we've heard from the governors in the opening statement, it is true to conclude that we live in two different worlds. This one's pink, and the one we live in is really hard, agonizing. We see that citizens, businesses, people move out, most of all our young people. What is the key objective of the CNB gentlemen? If you look at the law, it's price stability. So let's ask ourselves, here I am asking you and the governor above all, have you achieved this key goal of monetary policy? It's interesting that you said so, but Mr. Governor, you can tell that to someone who doesn't understand. I'm a university professor from that area. For three years, Croatia has a deflation or a better understanding of negative inflation, which is considered a price instability in economic theory and politics. Croatia too today, especially in the last year, has the highest deflation rate in the EU. And you call that stability? For those of you who are not economists just for a little while to say if I can get that close, deflation is just as bad a disease as inflation. However, the CNB has long sought to show that it is a key danger for this country and the inflation economy. That's not a problem for years, it's not a problem for 20 years. Neither is the EU. The average EU inflation rate since '92 So far, it's 2.1%. Deflation, what does it mean? It's a general drop in prices. When we have a general drop in company income prices is down. When corporate incomes drop what we have? Workers' layoffs, reduced production, and ultimately we have a GDP drop. So it could be a worse disease than inflation. So that's why the European Central Bank and its Governor Mario Draggi said we will do everything to prevent deflation, and it opens the way to recession means growth in unemployment and GDP decline. He opened all the measures and instruments of monetary policy and offered as well as other central banks of other countries that wanted and were in the role of developing their economies. You guys here were still scaring us with inflation. So I repeat, you haven't been fulfilling your key price stability goal in three years, and it's good that you gentlemen MPs and MPs know that. So we can't accept that you did your job because you just didn't. In this context, let's look at what she was doing, we will not compare ourselves with Germany, Italy, France, let's see what Hungary, the Czech Republic, Poland, Slovakia, etc. It's just a moment ago. Bunjac said unemployment in Hungary is about 5%, in fact we consider it natural unemployment. In the Czech Republic, about as much. The percentage of youth unemployment in these countries is 9%, 10%. Do you know how many gentlemen we have? 45%! Poland has about 8% unemployment, 9%. So where are we? Only Bulgaria is still beneath us. So how can someone come to us here in this House and tell us stories? People here are reasonable. You know what's interesting? You gentlemen have chosen this leadership from this side but the most criticism comes from you. And it is interesting that this party that has not chosen it today supports this policy, which is strange to me, even the esteemed chairman of the HDZ Finance Committee. So I wonder if the MOST whose proposal to amend the CNB Act will I support how will he even implement what he intends? So, I have this dilemma serious. But let's go back to basic questions. Exchange policy, for 22 years, we have a fixed exchange rate. And by the way, Mr. Governor, we don't have any manageable fluctuating exchange rate, we have an uncolonial model of the currency board, and you know as well as I do, but don't talk about how impossible it is to have a different course in that system, but you have to keep it the way it is. Such a system has BiH and Bulgaria but is even more rigid. But this isn't a place for wider scientific explanations. We, gentlemen, MPs and MPs, have a summer exchange rate. Here's what I came up with. What's he for? The beginning of the 5th month is beginning to strengthen the Kuna. At the end of the 9th month, the beginning of the 10th began to weaken the kuna. Well, it's just a stronger kuna at a time when it's time to lose weight, when tourists are coming. You drive tourists from Croatia. And what's come, it's because of terrorism in the countries there and income cuts. You're actually running a policy against the interests of this economy, this country. No one here is a devaluation, but if you had lost 1% of your swearing rate every year and in theory and politics is considered harmless, and no one notices it, we would have a course of not 7.5 today, but about 9.6 and hundreds of export companies would be saved, thousands of young people would not go outside, unemployment wouldn't be that big. These are the consequences of your policy, it is the silent killer of the Croatian economy and society. Of course, he's hardly visible to people. You are the only member of the Central Bank in Southeast Europe who hasn't changed the course in 22 years. As someone said earlier, it's like a man who's been wearing a winter coat all year, doesn't matter what the temperature is in summer 39 degrees. It is impossible for you to hold two of the most important instruments of macroeconomic policy that is the exchange rate and interest rate in your hands, neither of which you have used to promote the development of this country and protect the economy. So let's see a little bit about interest rates, you say they're at the historical lowest level. Yes, in Germany and Slovenia. What are they like with us? Multiple more compared to exactly those countries. Well, don't convince us, we know that, but why didn't you do it here? Now you're changing the thesis, you say you can't have an interest rate in Croatia so low because we're a more risky country. Please don't manipulate, it doesn't matter. It is true when we take credit in Germany or Italy, in Croatia foreign exchange credit then you are right. But when our bank lends credit to a domestic subject, then you're wrong, this is our country, there's no risk of the country. But you don't run an interest rate policy, you don't have a basic interest rate. You're just not the central bank. We just need to build a central bank. And well said, you're just a big exchange. You are not guided by what is worst, you are not guided by the practice of the European Central Bank. So please give us if our goal is to get in line with the European Central Bank and you get in line. No one here is asking you to coordinate with something we don't strive for. And here's another piece of information, if you're talking about interest rates that we can't, that we're a risky country, that there must still be more interest rates in the 7th month this year, the Central Bank of BiH has made a decision and imposed negative interest rates on banks to make deposits held by it. Why? To force them to enter the economy and approve of the population. Watch out for one BiH that is neither in the EU, which is much more risky than we are. So please, can this stand any criticism? Can you hold this argument? He can't. In that context, I'd still say something about transparency. The transparency of our Central Bank's work was best seen in the Franak case, asked for a data association, they didn't give. The association sued, the verdict, also complained to the public defender, no, the Administrative Court made a decision only now. And you know what they found out? Only the names of three banks, and they did not reveal what was most important to discover, how the banks approved loans related to the Swiss franc when banks did not have the most in the sources of the franc. There's no such information, and that's what you should have said. In fact, as for transparency, we don't know what the situation of things in the CNB is, and that's why I said yesterday, I support the proposal, the MOST's initiative to enter the State Audit as soon as possible. And watch out yesterday someone's talking about how we can trust the State Audit. So that audit paid by the CNB needs to be trusted exclusively, and the one he doesn't pay... she needs to be questioned. It's all clear. The credit activity of banks, when we talk about it, we see that it falls both towards the economy sector and according to the population sector, we see that we really live in the real world where the system is falling more and more, people are running away from the country with their belly after bread, and that's that. When we talk about bank regulation and supervision, I can't say here that the CNB applies double criteria. Special pressure from small banks, regional banks and we have witnessed that in the last 15 years about twenty and more small banks simply disappeared from the Croatian banking market. I can say that the CNB is actually our biggest common problem and today at this vote I was very pleased to see it going towards changing this situation, although some are nervous and very concerned about it. And a few more words just as long as I have time, about the independence of the CNB. It's interesting who created this HNB independence. In 2008 and 2013, the CNB Act changed twice. Where did the motion for these changes come from? From the CNB. Therefore, beware the CNB itself has determined that the legal framework will work and has excluded us from deciding in certain things. But you know what's interesting? Why 2008 and 2013 SDP and HDZ let you accept something like that? Today we must fight to change such an unbearable situation. In this context, you have to say another important thing, you are, in fact, the most independent but of your own responsibility. Look, gentlemen, I'm a university professor, I've made all the choices with all the risks I have election legitimacy. You've been chosen by the Peppermint Society, and we need you to file your accounts, and the friends who write you letters from the ECD can come in here and explain to us what they're doing, and they're telling us not to do it. We are here protecting the interests of Croatian economy, Croatian citizens, and what would be most important if we do not have such a provision to know who is calling you, not who solves you, for moral reasons you should make some concrete moves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3349	Thank you very much. Your exposure has caused more replicas. It is the right of the distinguished representative of Ivica Music. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3350	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Lovrinovic. I listened, so you told me about the small banks, why the small banks were destroyed. And I'm asking you now why little banks were destroyed when we know that some banks in Slavonia that I know were both healthy and quite well stood up, but there are some conversions coming in where this money is being taken out of these small banks and eventually the National Bank is sending its commissioners to these small banks, it's interesting that everything where the National Bank sent the commissioners, where the commissioners were in those small banks that all these small banks have failed. Why, I'm asking a question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3351	Thanks will be answered by distinguished representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3352	Dear Representative Muscle, it's exactly what you said. We were told about 10 or 20 years ago when we just got into transition, they didn't, you see your banks aren't worth anything, we've solved them with about 70 billion kunas of budget money and it needs to be privatized. And 92%, it's not a problem to privatize, I'm not against private property, I'm the same for the market economy, but find me a country in Western Europe that has 92% foreign banking, owners of foreign property, although there are certain issues that are questionable, but I wouldn't open that question now is not the subject of conversation. But what you're saying, every country needs, you see Austria has about 700 banks, it has these Raiffeisen banks, so local, Germany has, so they're needed to develop certain counties so I don't say more municipalities, certain segments of the economy. But apparently someone was in the way, why? To simply establish its kind to say oligopol and to keep all cash flows under control. And when you take over a country's banking system, then the government of that country can't implement the economic policy it wants. We've already noticed, there have been cases like that that the government wants to make something happen and the bank, listen, we don't think so. And so I'm sorry that so many banks have failed, and I'm sorry that this is done in such a way and the attempts to rescue through the commissioners, you're right, they failed, they failed, they were liquidated, I have a feeling they're dealing with small banks in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3353	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3354	Thank you very much. Professor, you said we just had two worlds. We have a world that represents the CNB or as you said the butterfly bank. Is it possible for you as a professor to explain that there was a loan in Swiss that made the effects that we have, huge interest rates, the exchange rate. Is it possible that the CNB knew and didn't stop it? So, to be clear, the responsibility on the CNB is because it did not stand in the protection of Croatian people, the Franak association has also proved to the current verdicts where many information was kept secret which would, from which it is apparent that it does not care about the side of national interests i.e. Citizens and individuals. It's a key problem. As for your presentation, you said in the end that by looking at your aspect as a professor of the university that you have the legitimacy, they were elected to the Parliament as individuals who are not that, financial literacy like you, indeed what we serve if some European officials command us to do so. order why do we even have the right to observe reports, discuss and vote? Is this the sovereign state of Croatia? We fought for the Croatian wallet in the Croatian pocket, they robbed banks that the Croatian people had funded, when they were financed, they were recapitalised then handed them over to foreign hands, and these are only the sons of Judah and European obedients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3355	Thank you. The esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3356	Dear Representative Bulj, on the first question related to the franc here we heard former Minister of Finance Lalovca, here is a longtime member of the Association Franak Mr. Aleksic and I have collaborated as a consultant and I know a lot of it. But the biggest problem was when we were about two years ago, Professor. Jakovcevic and I, in one expert analysis, also revealed to the public that banks did not have Swiss franc funds in their sources to an sufficient extent, on average about 30% and they approved the meanings and the kuna loans were approved and tied from the Swiss francs. Now, that part of the truth will have to be revealed in the CNB at some point in time. And today it's said to have been a cost, to be careful between, like, seven billion kunas that it's a cost of conversion. There's no cost of conversion, there's only what's been taken back. Well, there's no need. We're about to talk about it again. The CNB had to stop the approval of such a corrupt financial product, it did not. Being a weather weather weather weather weatherman doesn't mean anything, she's here to act, she's here to act. Well, there's been a lot of damage. And when you ask Mr. Bulj about sovereignty why we can do this one way or another, I repeat the example of yesterday Slovenia when special police entered their central bank and asked for certain documents, they came up with nothing, well opposed by the European Central Bank, nothing after that. We here determine whether we will have sovereignty or not, not someone outside, but us here. If we don't stick right and defend Croatia's interests what we need sovereignty for, then we don't deserve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3357	Thank you very much. The next is a replica of the esteemed representative Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3358	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues I use this part of my colleague Lovrinović's debate on deflation to point to the fact that at the time of deflation there is even greater flexibility in the conduct of monetary policy in a certain way, especially in the direction of strengthening the competitiveness of the Croatian economy and of this fine niveling of certain parameters that monetary policy controls which are the course and prices. But there is something else I want to point out here that we here in the Parliament rarely mention and that is too important for a huge population of people in Croatia, so people who have come to retirement, to a small pension, too little pension that in this time of the last few years, and here now and with a new tax reform will be in a situation that will continue to fall in share in wages. So, on the one hand, thanks to tax redundancies, wages are growing slightly and pensions are constantly falling into the share of the salary and are already below 40% on average, so the average pension in average salary. Among other things, I link it to this topic that the indexation of pensions is directly related to the rate of inflation, so the general price index in the country which unfortunately the pensioners first and foremost in this time is a negative sign behind us. So, let's say, in last year's salary increased nominally and realistically slightly higher because of that negative price index, almost 4% and the average pension thus increased by nine kuna or a little over 0.3%. So there's something wrong with that. And in order to improve the situation of pensioners in these extreme situations it will certainly need to do something and I think that monetary policy in a certain way can act a little more effectively.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3359	Thank you. The esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3360	Your Honor, I'm going to start with your finding that something's wrong here, there's a lot going on here. Of course 22 years in this country have increased wages both nominally and realistically, there have been other costs, as much as it can be monitored dynamics but the course remains the same, and you also as a professor of economics as I know it is impossible, that the course must maintain all these changes. Well, you can't have a 22-year-old exchange rate that healthy in such a sick economy. It doesn't exist. But even though you're doing this, then other sectors have to suffer, and that's between the rest and the pensioners and everything else. I'm going to take a chance here when you're talking about it it says we're deflation because the energy prices are down. Well, wait, so I guess they fell for Hungary, for the Czech Republic and Poland, and then as they have mostly positive, they have inflation. We actually need to reflect the economy to about 2%. You didn't do it. You're saying you can't, that you can't and you know who's saying you can't? The one who doesn't know. And if you say you're not allowed to, then I'm asking a question, and then whose interests are you protecting, and who orders you not to?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3361	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3362	Dear Mr. Lovrinović, you see you are an expert in monetary policy, but the people of your profile do not need any servant government because no servant government wants to have people like you in it. So neither this one, nor the one before her, nor the one after her who will be if by her nature she is the same as the present. We're back here today about the question is, why didn't the CNB react? You see that one of us here stole 1,000 kunas or 2,000 kunas or let's say 5000 kunas would be a criminal application, would be charged with theft, robbery whatever it is, but when the CNB lets a massive robbery called the Swiss franc where banks issue a loan in a currency that they didn't owe to, and to that extent, they get billions out of citizens' pockets. And then ever since the state stopped it, then they're still suing the state and they're asking for compensation, then there's no liability, then there's no criminal charges against the governor, there's no criminal responsibility, he's not guilty of anything. And why is that? Because in Croatia crime is the most legalised. It is legalized that the CNB is a exchange office, it is legalized that there is a currency clause, it is legalized that money is a debt and in fact our citizens can only hope that it will not end up as a bear dog. Because you see Mr. Wolf Dog Bear is convicted and guilty and you're not to blame. And ask yourselves, what is the harm of what you have done for our company, and how much of the bear dog? And the worst of all that dog was tried and you can't be judged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3363	Thank you. About the dog Medi will know everything in response to the distinguished representative Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3364	Dear Representative Pernar, in other words, you have said that "Dogs bark caravans pass." But it makes sense, you know. Yet in this assembly came some new forces, new people and here are the public watching us, the citizens watching us, we have their voice they have so far been unable to hear such debates in the Parliament, about the Croatian National Bank. They couldn't find those viruses that kill them by now, howling them in black. But they gave us their voice to talk about. I'm still an optimist about that, no matter what I did, I didn't come here to fight for the chair and to participate in the executive government. I can probably do more like you and the others here in the Parliament. But we must restore our dignity to this Parliament. I'm paying attention again to why management can't, in fact, be responsible for why we don't? Well, because these past two CNB laws came from the CNB. When you write your own law, would you write it differently? And then people say what we're gonna do. So I'm saying it's a good initiative for Most. I don't know if they're going to have it now after what I recorded today that there's no reaction from HDZ they want an open road and courage to get this story to the end, and it has to come to an end. Interest groups are strong in this country, holding an import lobby. So look at the exchange rate risk they don't manage as far as the bank's euro is concerned, they don't need to. He runs the CNB. He's holding a fixed and foreign exchange course. They don't need risk management when it comes to the exchange rate. Everything is more or less said. We know what to do. We have people in Croatia for everything, but seas, I am an optimist in the coming time will surely have to change one way or another.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3365	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3366	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear fellow Lovrinovic, unfortunately the Swiss franc was covered in derivatives. So it was covered by the legal work that was happening between Croatian banks and citizens, but with derivatives. Derivatives are actually gambling business. On derivatives, someone makes a living in class. They made mothers' banks on derivatives. The difference between a rate of six and a half billion kuna, which is shown as seven and a half billion kunas in conversion, is completely unclear to me where that billion kuna came from, because the difference between the remaining capital and that capital that was interest is 5 and a half billion kuna plus a billion kuna is surplus. That's six and a half billion. Where this billion kuna appears, it is not clear to me, and no one has answered me, not even the finance minister. So these six and a half billion kuna conversion costs end up in cashiers abroad without a single dime of tax. You said the interest rate was high in the Republic of Croatia. The interest rate is high in loans because loans with illegal interest rates, and the Croatian National Bank is guilty of why banks are manipulating interest rates today. Until the ruling of the Supreme Court on the pages of the Croatian National Bank, it was written on consumer protection pages that banks are allowed to change interest rates independently by their administrative decisions. That's what the consumer protection page said. After the Supreme Court's ruling, it was removed from the consumer protection site. Now the Croatian National Bank says that banks are enough to define interest rates in the middle of a contractual relationship, that they did not have to agree on that. And the Law on Mandatory Relations makes it clear that the terms and conditions of repayment of credit must be agreed on by written means. The bank cannot define the change in interest rate on its own. So, the Croatian National Bank holds the lottery to banks in illegal business.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3367	Thank you. The esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3368	Dear Representative Alexic, we have just in this research and a brief analysis we have shown that they have also accepted let's say that financial statements have been used, and they were called by Warren Buffalo one of the richest people in the world as weapons of mass destruction both people and entrepreneurs. It's not an opportunity because this isn't a scientific set to talk about these financial statements. I wrote a 734 - page book about it last year, and among other things, it says something about it. But please, there's no SVOP for 20, 30 years when we're talking about it. And that should go into analysis, but I don't have the access to see how those contracts are made. But the only response from the Croatian National Bank to this analysis of us almost two years ago. It was only one sentence, it was all by law. You see, that's how it happens, and you know who writes the laws and how it writes them and for whose benefit. Well, we're right here where you need to write, change laws, cancel, bring new ones. That's what citizens expect from us. This was not done, so the Croatian National Bank did not protect citizens' interests. She left them to the mercy of these 7 and 8 banks, respectively, that they were speculating because they were looking for big profits, and the Croatian National Bank was actually scaring us and saying that it was the cost, that if the conversion was made that they would escape, that there would be an increase in interest rates, that this, yes. None of that happened. So everyone knows what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3369	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3370	Dear Vice President, dear colleague Lovrinovic. What has been the main thread of your exposure, and what has been the subject of all these days as we have discussed, means this bill of law is the inaction of the CNB, meaning inaction with interest growth, i.e. illegal withdrawal of interest rates, then the case of francs. And the only thing we did was see it, we had a debate yesterday was an attempt to preserve their own position, and then yesterday we discussed this letter that arrived, which was written by someone most likely at Governor Vujčić's address to protect his position so that the State Audit doesn't enter the CNB, that this House does not vote on the CNB report. But what I'm going to do now is I'm going to ask you, it'd be better if I could ask the governor, but he can show himself later on. I've got an interesting piece of information I've seen here. It's also about the inaction of the CNB. So it's a sign of a moment. Banks therefore placed loans of several dozen million kunas in Croatia on 20 companies, and what is interesting is that these companies have 0 employees. It's very questionable, I don't know if the CNB reacted, the question is did they know about it, if they didn't know about it, and if they knew if they did anything? I don't know if you know anything about it, I'll read these companies now. So it's about Urban-South, Promiscio, SANABILIS NEKRETNINE, Zelina Center, Nautica Hotels&Resorts, Prigorka, Waste Waters Zaprešić, Free navigation, CAVTAT PANOROM, Adria Lux, Uvala ŽNJAN, Fruit Royal, Park VILLA, IČIČI PROJECT, VENUSTAS SPLIT, CIVITAS Nova, CODER, Jankomir Real estate. It means 0 employees, and it's a million dollars.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3371	Thank you. The esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3372	The esteemed representative of the Grmoya indemnity for one side means doing for the other side. It means someone's interests are being kept. So what you're pointing at is, this data you've read, it's on the trail of what he commented about an hour ago and Mr. Lalovec's former finance minister saying that about 100 people owe it to the banks of five, six billion kunas. Well, Mr. Grumoja and you and I need to ask a question to the National Bank, she's in charge of regulation and supervision of banks, they need to have direct access to see who these loans are approved for, why with 0 employees. You'll see everything behind that. It'll be like when the snow falls so... discovers a clue to where she was walking. [[You don't understand.]] That's what this is about. But I can tell you something else, ask you, here you are now in a stronger position because you're in power, why don't some banks get that surveillance? When was the last time he was? So you'll understand why I was talking about double criteria, so we'll all understand the transparency of the CNB. All this suggests, and it's good to change this law, here I am really selfless to you yesterday, I don't want to add anything really I'm willing to sacrifice myself, to change what needs to be, and everything that's written there is in line with Croatian laws because this law is in conflict with other laws, even some EU directives. And that's why I'm glad we're gonna get some interesting information in the coming months.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3373	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Željko Lackovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3374	I thank the chairman. First of all, I would like to commend the presentation of the esteemed professor. Lovrinovica and his one extraordinary observation because I still don't want to be indifferent, and I don't believe we all here on such an important issue. I don't think we're on lipsticks, and we can change something no matter how much this situation you've described has been prevented, which is that the bank gentlemen have been chosen from the left hand side, supported by the right hand side, and are now being attacked by the left-hand side. Maybe that's the diagnosis that should be a guideline to how you described the disease created by the CNB for the virus killing society. But I'm afraid every time they're chosen, they're going to lead to a good virus, and then we're going to kill the whole organism. Well, you should come up with some kind of smart medicine. And I think that in this meeting of the Croatian Parliament there should be enough responsible politicians who, regardless of whether they chose the governor and now they attack him or defend him and didn't choose us here somewhere in the middle to find the right way because the vast majority of you coming from the Living Wall and from this formation chose the fate of individuals who suffered because of this unsettled system. But I trust more in the intentions and power of entrepreneurs who need to create conditions for employment and who are the most affected by these solutions offered by the CNB. That's where I'm asking the answer from you. And tell me, were you familiar with the situation that was in the Republic of Austria in the '90s where the loans were also speculatively necessary to secure themselves at insurance houses to change the exchange rate?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3375	Thank you. The esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3376	Dear Representative Lackovic, you were talking about smart medicines, so the real doctor will know how to prescribe the right therapy without destroying the organism and we certainly have experts for that. What's interesting is I'd focus here on one thing you've also asked, monetary policy is not all-powerful, and we understand that. Like everything else, she has her limitations. The most important thing is what happens in the real economy but it's also the fact that you can't develop in the real economy if the monetary economy is a problem for you, if you have too many interest rates, if you have an unrealistic exchange rate, if you can't get credit, etc. So what worries the entrepreneurs today? If I can't sell the goods, demand is weak, price drops. On the other hand, the charging of claims remains enormous in Croatia. These are all signs of monetary and credit policy defects. And then it's said that banks have enough money but bad clients, you know. That's what they said both in Germany and in all other EU countries. But the central bank has instruments and measures to force not only to force but to initiate the process to increase demand, how to increase production, employment etc. So here you are not looking for anything unreal, but it can certainly be done, it tells us the experiences of Hungary, the Czech Republic, Poland and other countries that still have their currency and use it wisely and that's why they're gone. We are what they were 30 years ago today.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3377	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Andrija Mikulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3378	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Professor Lovrinović, well, you encouraged me with your performance on two, three things, so today we talk about the transparency of the business of the CNB, we talk about the conduct of monetary policy, and then we're told at one point, you didn't understand. I don't know what we should understand. Are we two worlds? Absolutely, obviously you're one world, and we're the other. But I want to belong to the world of those people who pay too much interest in Croatia for loans, and that's what I belong to. And I'm going to remind you that those who haven't realized what you're saying obviously haven't figured out who they're choosing in this House of Commons. So you wouldn't have every third or every third sentence with a smile turned and watched this assembly because these are the people who are going to choose someone in the places where you or you are tomorrow. Therefore, you must have and listen to what you are told if we are listening to your reports, unfortunately from which we have no insight into the business of the CNB and they are completely insufficient, whatever you think. But Professor Lovrinović, I'm asking you as a professor, which and how, what are the steps, you might tell us in two or three steps for these broad masses that don't understand it along with me, so you can simplify that story so plastic that we can figure out what it really should be, which are steps towards stability. CNB surveillance, absolutely, so you're not a special world. Yeah, surveillance, I don't see anything controversial. And finally, there's no absolute independence, it's a relative term, so someone needs to control you too.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3379	Thank you. The esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3380	Dear Representative Mikulić, here's what I see is that you've described very pedanticly and noticed some things that you wouldn't repeat about whether people sitting here in front of us are taking us seriously or not, but I've listened very carefully to your impression. When you ask about what you should do second in two, three steps, you ask me too much in these two minutes, but I'll tell you one key thing where it all comes from, which is that we have to put this institution under the democratic control of this state or the Parliament. Not in the sense that we're setting her up to run monetary policy because she has to have independence, but we need to know everything else and we need to decide one thing at the end. If the CNB report is positive, we'll send it with applause, if it's bad, then that's why we have to deal with the consequences and it has to stand down. When we define it then monetary policy can also change, and I said it must be in the function of developing the Croatian economy, the stability of citizens means that the jobs they are doing receive the wages they can live with. These are very precise concrete things, we don't need to reveal hot water. Here I repeat how Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary did not go any further, so believe that there are experts in this country, there aren't too many, but there are, they didn't all go out, that we know how to do it. But we have to make certain changes here so that we can make changes in the system and so on in the CNB.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3381	Thank you very much. Now we would move on to individual debates and the first to come forward was Honorable Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3382	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Governor with associates, colleagues and colleagues. When we discuss this report or about the half-yearly information on the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy in the Republic of Croatia in particular in the context that marked the past period, and this is something written in both the report and the situation in the Croatian economy which is better than in recent years, when we also talk about the problem of the Swiss franc all this requires I would say a rather serious debate. And this House on what needs to be discussed and voted on because every act and work of the CNB from year to year, we need to assess whether we are satisfied with this work. The independence in the field of monetary policy does not mean that the Croatian Parliament, as a colleague of Lalovac said, cannot, as a congregation, as a real participant of the steak holder in the CNB, make a decision on whether or not it is satisfied or not with the work of the CNB. What pleases me is that the situation in the report has seen this, from 2011 to 2015 has changed dramatically for the better. In 2015, it was marked by a whole series of positive economic indicators from GDP growth, from increasing for the first time employment, from having and falling I would say deficit means we were in a situation in 2011 when the deficit was over 6.7% of GDP is now slightly above 2%. So all these indicators say that Croatia is going in the right direction and that we need to take advantage of this moment to continue. Unfortunately, the recent measures proposed by the HDZ government and the MOST and experienced great criticism in the public, both from the profession and from the citizens and from all but those stakeholders that are relevant to it are rich people, these are interest groups that prevail in the trade, only they praise them and most of them do not want these changes that will certainly compromise further positive developments as regards the economic situation in the Republic of Croatia. We have a situation here today to read that within the government, tourism ministers have also filled against the announcement of a 12% VAT increase in tourism. And why it's important to link it to this report. See how much tourism is in GDP, and how much is the distribution of tourism in investment, i.e. in construction, and for the first time since 6, 7 years in the building we also have positive trends related to employees, we have positive trends regarding what people who have invested in the past years of investment that started this year are now questioning this for 2017, 2018 whether these investments will be profitable. The building that broke the most on tourism is now getting into trouble again. And that is why we need to understand that these trends, which are positive in 2015, must not be compromised by the reckless measures that have now been prepared for us in the HDZ tax reform of colleagues. I hope that some of these changes will happen while we discuss this in the Parliament. As far as HDZ is concerned, I must admit that I am a little confused because I see that HDZ essentially strongly supports the work, this work of the CNB, which we heard from the presentation of the HDZ Club's representative, that it strongly supports the way the CNB has placed itself in certain things and that HDZ has not de facto disabled, also said the representative of the Swiss franc resolution club. Well, the HDZ couldn't make it impossible because the government of Zoran Milanovic solved the problem by passing the law. The HDZ, however, at the last moment came to this and de facto until the last minute was at the positions of the CNB, which all the forces resisted that the law was not passed, warning, protesting, questioning whether it would remain a stable financial system in Croatia, whether Croatian could be in debt, whether the currency would remain stable, all of those warnings we received a year ago in 9 months 2015. Thank God none of that happened. And we have a situation like we do now. 54 thousand Croatian families have solved their problem. This report shows that the vast majority of them have also subscribed interest and their principals have dropped. So 15 thousand kunas overpaid on average by the credit party and 150 thousand kuna on average on average also on a single loan that the Government of Zoran Milanovic made possible for Croatian citizens and de facto did not endanger the financial sector, the banking sector, all of them doing very well, no one closed their business, and with all the threats we have been listening to last year continue to work, earn and have absolutely no problems. And I think it's a minimum that could be done to help people and de facto that one part of the profits made over the past 20 years is back to the society in which that profits were made. The HDZ also supports the entry of the state audit into the CNB, which is good but yet nothing is saying and I feel that it does not support the vote on the report submitted by the CNB. Because if that wasn't the case today, we wouldn't be discussing it, but we'd have a situation to wait until we passed the law proposed by MOST and then voted on this report, and that's how we're showing ourselves in the CNB. We have a situation in Croatia today to share lessons from Frankfurt. The European Central Bank shall be appointed as sovereign in the Republic of Croatia, thus protecting the CNB from alleged pressures, transparency. Of the fact that the CNB corresponds essentially to this Parliament and Croatian citizens. Because if that weren't the case, we wouldn't have such a hickey and such pressures through the media that the law wasn't passed. And I rush you, it would have been much better if you had put that law in emergency procedure instead of the Law on the Amendment of the Croatian Government and the formation of a new ministry. So again here, solving intra-party problems within the HDZ have been given priority over redefining relations with the CNB. So today we passed the law and put it into emergency procedure so that a HDZ minister would get his ministry but the CNB issue is not one of the priorities that HDZ and MOST recognise and did not go into emergency procedures. On the other hand, if we look at some of these reports, we'll see how many CNBs and how conservative the CNB is and how it treats money, it acts like a hamster, I'd say, hoarding international, or international reserves that have grown by twice in 15 years, from 6 billion euros to 12 billion euros. My question here is whether the CNB is any of that money, most of that money has come from getting the CNB in recent years, could the CNB have returned something to the economy and thus reduce our companies' interest rates to make the economy and how could they be in a simpler position to work and to come up with cheaper capital? So this policy of agriculture, this policy of stockpiling funds and, on the other hand, not investing in the economy, this policy to preserve the course that unfortunately cemented us here in the '90s, when obviously the CNB decided on such a conservative policy that suits importers and trade, and not industry, I don't think it helps our companies and our economies. There is much to change in the CNB and I hope that we will agree here in the Croatian Parliament on this and achieve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3383	Thank you. And your exposure has caused quite a number of replicas. She is the real one, the respected representative of Željko Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3384	Dear colleagues, I don't know what we're talking about here in this House. Are we dealing with critical information? Some people sit here longer than Saddam Hussein was in power. Sometimes some have been pilgrimaged to Belgrade, now pilgrimage to Brussels, and we have not yet created a functional system. How is possible we heard Mr. Lovrinović and I agree completely with that. You can't have a healthy financial monetary system inside a dysfunctional state. There are all institutions still dysfunctional. We've been listening for months, we've got 20, Mr. Grmoy, we've got 20,000 companies without one employee. There were 330,000 people blocked who were getting money from some parallel credit system that wasn't based on domestic law, who allowed it? Mr. Lalovac says no one is to blame, we have... without any responsibility. Where are the medicines, where the financial police most of the countries have Western Europe, where the financial school, which is also the responsibility of financial circles in Croatia, is to... people in financial matters. How is it possible that we got out of one application to another, where the answer to the gray economy is, how much money is being spent here every year on the matter of the gray economy? There are some people who have millions of dollars in bank accounts out there. The second question, what money is coming back out here and what is the origin of that money? You have a lot of examples, people buy away at ACI Marines, shipyards, wind power plants, I don't deal with key issues. Until we create a social and legal system and there is no synergy between the CNB, USKOK, the Ministry of Justice will do this, this debate will lead to infinity until we create the foundations of the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3385	Thank you. The honourable representative of Gordan Maras will answer, he won't. Thank you. Next to the replica, the esteemed representative, Ivan Klarin, reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3386	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's even though it has nothing to do with the subject you've offered me colleague Maras about increasing VAT rates in tourism. I'm the one who's coming, who's the chief.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3387	I beg you yourself said it has nothing to do with the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3388	It's all right. I'm replicating my colleague Maras. Would you allow me?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3389	Okay, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3390	Otherwise, your practice of always stopping me at the beginning of the first session, that's how this good practice is repeated but good. I say, Mr. Maras, about the change in the rate of hospitality and tourism, I think it will greatly harm our tourism sector and hospitality. Namely, our government, the government of Zoran Milanovic raised those rates from 13% to, from 25 percent to 13%, and now it's rising to 25. I don't know if all those in the ministry, especially the Ministry of Finance, because I see that a little Minister of Tourism has strayed from the Minister of Finance and is announcing that he still disagrees that I welcome and support it. I think they should see the invitations of the restaurant from the Adriatic coast, which means we are not for the Adriatic coast, for Dalmatia and our coastal counties than tourism as a basic branch means for a complete economy in the Republic of Croatia. I, in this replica, appeal to be heard by the Minister of Finance, but also by my colleagues in HDZ, to give up his foolish move. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3391	Thank you. You were right, it had nothing to do with the dot. The next replica, and you weren't answering for an answer. Yes, I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3392	I did. I didn't answer the phone last time, so you called me, and now I've called, so you haven't called me back.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3393	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3394	Absolutely this has something to do with this report because you will see Mr. Klarin in the report that the building has also been alive and that the contribution to GDP from service activities and GDP growth from service activities is immeasurable. And then in a situation where it went well, when people started to invest, when 10, 20 new high-class hotels opened annually in the Republic of Croatia hit tourism to move somewhere else, we'll see when we get a proposal right where, we'll precisely cut to see who the winners are. And believe me, except for these few thousand or spills of people who will get significant money by changing income taxes there are also large branches that are big winners. There is nothing by chance, we will analyse and we will put the dice together and we will show the Croatian public what this is all about. We've worked here on a sector that's gotten us out of the crisis in a good way, and I hope that in the name of common sense, the government will give up on that. Mr. Maric, if necessary, we will provide professional assistance in order to draw up a better proposal but such a proposal as regards the host, as regards people in the Republic of Croatia, should not be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3395	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3396	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, it's not, I'm not suggesting to conclude, but colleague Maras led me to say once again what the CNB is? The CNB is a human regulator and an independent regulator. And what does that mean? Who does he regulate? Business banks. And what does that mean? This means that the CNB cannot stand behind the banking sector's back, but rather vice versa. In front of the banks and make sure that system works. Is that right now, I'm not sure about that. Well, I don't think so. So a lot of questions that have been open these two days in this rich debate I'd say to ourselves we have to answer. If that is not the case, it means that CNB policy is incomplete, wrong, it is not a policy that goes in the interests of the whole, that we understand fully about the Croatian state and Croatian citizens. First of all, it's the key message of this debate in these two days, and that's what we have to ask ourselves. And that's what all the other stuff comes out of. So, we as a Parliament are citizens' representatives first of all and when we talk to the CNB and any other institution, it's just like that. And you see, why this more voice these two days is heard on this side no matter what we choose here most of the present governor. The governor is elected as he chooses, and that doesn't mean that we don't question all the time what the governor and his associates and the CNB are doing as an institution, and that's how we're going to do it in the future. We are by definition a social democratic party. Social democracy is a concern for citizens, and it should be known and that is the difference that is observed here with colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3397	Thank you for coming out. You really didn't answer for the debate. Thank you for coming back on the subject, fellow Greek. Okay. Come on.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3398	Thank you very much. No, seriously, you nodded your head. Mr. Greek, you said well, and that's the whole story, I'd say the taste of this debate. The CNB needs to be over the banks and it has to be the regulator and control things. Just like when the CNB gets or the governor and his team gets a term of office for six years, this does not mean that between those six years they can do whatever they want and that the Croatian Parliament must not question, question what is done and give its conclusion whether it is satisfied with the work. Well, that would be crazy. So you give some bianco a check for six years and do whatever you want. Unless you decide to leave or God forbid something happens to you, you're no longer in position. Well, there's got to be some kind of control. Well, Parliamentarians also have control over not saying the possibility to revise them, to talk about them as well as how they work. A court is given that the governor, or his team, is not in one term but in one and a half terms, have absolutely no control over or vote on their work and that they are called in a way that threatens their sovereignty. On the other hand, I recognize another problem of the functioning of the Croatian National Bank. It is not good for people from the banking sector to come to the leadership of the Croatian National Bank. Let's say Mr. Vujcic had a career that didn't touch the banking sector and that's good. So he came from the Institute of Economics at the Croatian National Bank as a young man, not as someone mentioned from Peppermint, but 90 and some years I don't know when he started working there. That's when Peppermint wasn't there yet. He was the director of a sector. After that, he became Deputy Governor in 2000 and became Governor in 2012. But there are many people who have jumped from the bank administration to the leadership of the Croatian National Bank Let's ask ourselves, is that right? [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3399	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3400	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, I've been listening very carefully all morning to the debate and colleagues of Lalovec and yours and replicas. I have to say, I don't understand the SDP's position. And I don't think anyone in this room knows how to set up a SDP club according to this report. On the one hand, this report covers the area of the last six months of the Government of Zoran Milanovic, the Government of the SDP of which you were a member, which contains in itself through macro-economic indicators and the work of your government or the implementation of the fiscal policy of the SDP government. So as far as the metrics are concerned, I'm interested in the SDP's position on my own government when we talk about the indicators that the National Bank is through its report, or information here tells us. On the other hand, you are now wondering how and how the CNB's policy is implemented by the governor with his associates. When, when we were 8, it seems to me that in July 2012 here in this assembly you appointed the governor you proposed him and your majority voted him and you knew very well what policy the governor of the National Bank would implement. In his speech and in his programme, he announced continuity in the conduct of monetary policy and you knew it well. So now the study of both Mr. Lalovec and the SDP club about how the policy is being implemented now, the National Bank, I have little to say, I'm not going to say funny. But I'm surprised you're surprised at what you knew when you suggested Mr. Wolfie. As far as HDZ's position is concerned, we are clear to the end, and we have also said our position when it comes to the bill proposed by colleagues from the MOST, and we are to have the revision entered into the CNB, that this revision has certain restrictions on the data that are relevant to the fate of the state, and it concerns monetary policy. We are to vote and that MPs in the Croatian Parliament have the right to make known about and this information although I think it should be a report and not information, which is very important to me. So, and to limit the term of office even though limiting the term of office means nothing when we are the ones who determine the term of office of the governor of the CNB.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3401	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Gordan Maras will answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3402	Thank you very much. Well, I don't know why you're surprised if it won't be voted on, so this is pure technique, taking in knowledge. ... Why? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, because that's how it's defined. If the report were to be voted on and on some parts of the report, then we would be told very clearly that we are not satisfied with how the CNB was placed in the case of the Swiss franc and we could vote on it. We can't do that in this situation. In this situation, we've got the facts that happened, and there's no voting there. When this law of the Most, then I'll be able to say that I don't accept the CNB report because I'm not satisfied with how the CNB was set up in the case of the Swiss franc. Just like I didn't know it in 2012. If I'd known in 2012 how much it didn't help us, it wouldn't have given the CNB in case Governor Vujcic was probably my position in 2012. But I didn't know, circumstances changed. Things change, Mr. Bacic. How come they don't change? Well, let's say six months ago, Croatian Prime Minister Plenkovic was on the HDZ Assembly after mentioning a critical little something by Mr. Karamark. The man barely left the hall without being decapitated. In six months, the man is the Croatian prime minister. Here's how much the HDZ changes in six months. Well, then don't object to me for having an attitude about a Swiss franc that I couldn't possibly have guessed in 2012 in 3 years. If in six months, the HDZ changes from banging to euphoria, then I won't have it in three years, and the Swiss franc doesn't change on the horizon. Don't be surprised.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3403	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3404	Thank you, dear Vice President. My dear colleague Maras, you spoke of the effects of the conversion, of how over 50,000 families were saved, of how their debts were reduced. Indeed, the moment when the government made that decision to refer it to the Parliament's Law on Conversion is the moment when the Parliament voted on it that was the moment of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia and I can only congratulate you all on that moment. You've really done one big thing for many debtors. However, when it comes to the effects of conversion, I must now say that the effects of conversion are also extremely favourable for banks in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, the cost of conversion is 6.5 billion kuna, not 7.5. This is seen from the Ministry of Finance's report where, when mathematical elements are taken into account, the cost of conversion is 6.5 billion kuna. And that's what banks really have that cost. That cost is for mothers' banks. So they've earned Mother's 6.5 billion kuna on derivatives. Why do banks in the Republic of Croatia have a real good situation? Because out of those 6.5 billion kunas, they're going to get a billion and 300 million kuna back through tax relief. We're left with 5 billion and 200 million kuna. Most of the converted debtors will not sue the banks for overpaid interest, leaving the banks with 3 billion they would have to pay back because of overpaid interest to the debtors if they went to the courts. 5.2 minus 3 is 2.2 billion kuna. The share of bad loans decreased from 30.09.2015 to 8 billion kuna by June 2016. Of which 2 billion kunas are the population. These 2 billion kunas will result in 600 million kunas in the next 10 years for interest banks. That's where we're getting closer and closer to more and more numbers 0. Over the next 10 years, the total cost of conversion for Croatian banks will be 0 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3405	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Gordan Maras will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3406	I can partly agree with you, which is that the banks haven't lost. But if they lost a possible extra profit, that's true. And on that side, I had no difficulty in making a decision or voting for that law and insisting on that law being applied. And I am glad that you have noticed what is true and that I believe that 54 thousand Croatian families feel that the Government of Zoran Milanovic, without pressure, has decided to pass this law and has brought it to solve the problem. As far as this second part is concerned, they're going to be at 0, or they're going to make some more money here, I'm not so sure because I believe that's how they would propose that solution themselves. Because I believe that people have 5 people or 10 people who would know how to calculate it the same way you do. So I think they got away with some profit, and that's why they objected, and they didn't want that law to be passed. And that's why they're suing the Republic of Croatia and trying to get that money in some courts. And that is why I regret that some political forces in the Republic of Croatia do not recognise it but even give their statements to the banks and expect them to get it and that they will eventually pay all Croatian citizens. I say that we should not pay, that we should be complex here, that we should stand behind the government if it is put in a way to reject the lawsuit that the banks have filed and that we can respond together and that we can remove the possibility that Croatian society, the Croatian state pays more than one kuna in this regard because Croatian citizens have paid too much for the past 10 years anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3407	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative Grodana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3408	Well, here's a respected colleague, Maras, and former colleagues, who are surprised that I've expressed a positive opinion that, well, you've also found as well as I that the positive shifts and growth in employment and all the other trends that have been shown here in both tables and in all possible ways, so we can't argue with all that's been happening at this time. And you said yourself since 2011, these trends have moved, so we can be satisfied with the instrumentation used to make these positive trends happen. Could be more, that's the question now. But then it's up to us and top experts who are so surprised by the different and second opinion that they say what can be done better, in what way, which could affect and how monetary policy should be defined. I also wonder why you and such experts have not intervened, including you, so that it does not happen or that the number of credits in Swiss is reduced by advising citizens not to do so and not to be in debt. So on all of us, then, the responsibility that has been going on in the past, and the National Bank itself has returned more than 5.2 billion to the state budget. So it didn't go anywhere but into our budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3409	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Gordan Maras will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3410	I haven't specifically personally warned people because I'm not ashamed to admit, I have neither the resources nor the knowledge to deal with some financial predictions about what's going to happen to a single currency for the next ten years. It's simply my role in this society not even in this House, it's the role of the CNB. And if the CNB had warned one percent as much as she warned our government not to pass that law, probably a lot of people wouldn't have taken those loans. On the other hand, you've confirmed it once more, and I'm not happy because, as my colleague Greek warned, the CNB shouldn't be behind the banks, watching their backs, but be above the banks. I don't agree with such a policy, but I'm sorry to hear again that HDZ strongly supports such a CNB policy. I know that most colleagues support tones and their discussions make it visible, and I hope that regardless of what we are the opposition in the Croatian Parliament, but then if we can't get a compromise here to tell the CNB that we have to protect the citizens, and not the banks, then we'll get that consensus with our colleagues from MOST and we'll make it through that thing. But I appeal to HDZ and to you who are dealing with this area in HDZ to re-audit your position once more. Do not support the policies of the CNB which in this situation the Swiss franc has become more in the position of banks than in the position of Croatian citizens. The HDZ should be responsible if not for all in the Republic of Croatia and at least for those who support them. Do not stand behind the CNB unless it protects Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3411	Thank you. The next and last replica is the distinguished representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3412	Thank you very much. During the debate, you mentioned on one occasion that MOST Club is not dealing with important problems, we see only you know it in the past term that we have insisted on this in relation to the revision of the state in the CNB, you know that we have now proposed this with all the proposals that should be applied in the debate itself, but the fact is undeniable and you accuse MOST that in 2012 most of you were and later one of the key people in the Croatian government, that you chose not the first person of the CNB but that you chose this policy which was... the policies of the former head of the CNB. So you chose that neoliberal not socially democratic justice as your colleague, Greek, says monetary CNB policy, rather than this kind of policy. And it's good that you've transformed yourself and you understand now in this way, I personally appreciate it, but the fact that you voted for the CNB policy which was then the candidate for the first man here publicly in 2012, I was not at the time in politics, publicly representing that he would follow the same path. So that your criticisms can't be partly appreciated that they're the culprits of the Most people, that we're not dealing with too many problems. We disagree with CNB policy, we have made that clear, monetary, of course, it is our right to express it, but you have chosen such a policy. That's the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3413	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Maras will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3414	So I told you earlier, Mr. Vujcic has been in the CNB since the 1990s, so that policy was elected in the 1990s, and as far as these generals are concerned, she couldn't even change. I said where I got the problem with the CNB when I saw 2015 that there was no will to help the Croatian government solve the problem of the Swiss franc in a simple way, when the interest of an interested group is seen, not Croatian citizens. I had a problem with the CNB, not that in the 1990s or two thousand Governor Rohatinski chose one policy that is most related to the stability of our currency, or the strength of our currency, which unfortunately did not correspond to our producers, our industry, but trade. If you want, we can have a discussion about it, and maybe it wouldn't be too bad if we had one thematic debate, let's see about history, which is why and when the CNB policy was chosen that didn't suit our industry and our small companies, our producers and everything else. In 2012, it was almost gone, we were in tracks. Just as someone can now fight against the monetary union and Croatia's entry into the monetary union of the European Union means communities and we are already almost in the monetary union. More or less everything in Croatia is accounted for by a currency that is valid in the EU. So we didn't have an excessive choice in 2012 but to support the policy that was in play, which has been supported for many years. And the problem arose in 2015 and on the issue of the Swiss franc where we dramatically split up with the CNB, at conflict level. They didn't want the law, we pushed it out as far as the muscles are concerned, and now I'm glad we did it because I see people have solved their problem. And once again I call upon all of us here together to resist this pressure from the banks, the lawsuit of the banks to pass on to our society this expense which they have long earned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3415	Thank you very much. Now we're going to go to the next individual debate and that's her distinguished representative, Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3416	Dear Mr. Rainer. Life in this world is fleeting and so is my mandate, that is, my stay in this House as well. I could use these 10 minutes to talk against... Governor Vujčić and the policy he has implemented, which is the Swiss franc, which is the RBA cooperative, which is generally an interest policy that does not exist and does not exist because everywhere in the world it is, meaning the highest allowed interest rate as well as the tightening interest related to the escount rate of the central bank. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not about us, which means that our central bank's econtamination rate is not at all a reference rate and that we don't actually have a central bank. Is it governed by the people? He doesn't rule, he doesn't rule. We know what statute the European Central Bank adopts, which they allow, which they do not allow, they decide everything. So the people decide nothing directly or indirectly through their representatives or directly. And so I'm going to look back on a subject that is closely related to the work of the CNB itself. He says, on the Internet, if you Google the concept of a new world order, it says the following. The new world order is a conspiracy theory that claims that a small group of international elites control and manipulate governments, industry, and media organisations around the world with the aim of increasing power, influence and wealth. And the primary tool used is the central banking system. This means the example of our country, the CNB. It's a theory that became popular after 1990. Says the theory that a group of conspirators has funded and in some cases caused most of the wars in the last 200 years, that it causes global crises etc. Mr. Vujčić, you see, part of the people enter history as passing figures no one will remember in a week as was the recent Prime Minister Oreshkovic who disappeared in the ravings of history. You have the opportunity to disappear as he ends his mandate and you can enter history and as a person who will expose the conspiracy. You know everything, you've been hanging out with these people, you have knowledge that we other mortals in this High House don't have. You have inside information. But unfortunately, Mr. Vujcic, you're just expendable goods. The moment the problems are created, everyone here will be sitting around me and those who don't sit on their fingers at you and they'll say it's all his fault. And we both know that you and I are not guilty of everything and that you were actually just doing what you were told to do. And in fact, by turning the blame on you, you've been trying to get the blame out of this House and in general from that failed monetary policy that we've been leading for 22 years. Since I'm an advocate of what's called conspiracy theory and I don't think that's a theory because you know that the credit crisis could have been predicted, the economic one that's consequent, too, could have been predicted to grow a Swiss franc, so all the events we're looking at around us could have been predicted. Could you predict the breakdown of the production economy by fixing the course? Yes, it is. Could it have been predicted that we'd have a galloping external debt and an internal Kunian penny? Everything could have been predicted, Mr. Wolfie. However, there was also the possibility of predicting the wave of performance, the blocking of accounts, etc. However, we see that the central issue is not being discussed. So there's no discussion here about whether someone deliberately put us in this position, whether we happened to find ourselves in this creepy economic situation or maybe a group of conspirators planned this whole crisis to rule out property and state and us. Mr. Vujčić is well for you at the moment, and we are well here 151 who are sitting here, but ultimately, we will be the victims of these conspiracies ourselves. Why? Because all non-participating people are a priori, they are automatically on the list of triggers, or they can be sacrificed at any time. And those who participate in a conspiracy, such as members of secret societies, some Masonic lodges, etc. They think they're protected. But how long have they been protected? By the time you say there is an expression in English they know too much and they are not needed anymore. So when you know too much and you're no longer needed, then your head will fly like heads and people who are waiting for dejection, etc. So those who are holding you and protecting you right now won't protect you. My desire is to expose the current core conspiracy, the essence of the conspiracy, or central issue of the central bank. You, Mr. Vujcic, know that all money is a loan, means that money is created exclusively in the form of a loan and you also know that there is no money to pay off interest. You know that banks create money from the air through multiple credits and deposits, but that money that was created by multipliers these imaginary deposits exist at least in theory, means on the computer screen. However, money for interest payments does not even exist on the computer screen. So he's gone, and society is expected to bring him back. When we know that fact, the question arises why don't you as governor point to the Croatian public the problem? Why don't you tell the ladies and gentlemen the loans in total haven't been paid off? Ladies and gentlemen don't give us foreign lenders money because they expect us to get those loans back because they know that the system is set up technically impossible, but only to rule us out of property. Why don't you, Mr. Vujcic, say that, why don't you gather your courage and why don't you invite us fellow MPs here to rebel against that system together? Instead, this high house discusses whether you eat shrimp, whether you go to jacuzzi, etc. And even if you go, nothing changes, nothing changes, so all the problems that I've just listed remain. I'm sorry that my colleagues agreed to this act, so as you pretend to know nothing about the key things we should yell out loud about, so my colleagues here in the House are pretending that the problem is whether the State Audit is going to come in or not in what our monetary policy is like? Our country is sentenced to slavery and thus our people. The freedom we fought for in the war we lost her in peace today without a bullet fired through credit slavery. The money that used to go to Belgrade is now going to Brussels, Washington, where everything is not already in much, much larger amounts, and ultimately the result of that policy is seen by beggars on the street, bottle collectors, rows in front of the soup kitchen, etc. etc. So we all see what the effects are, we see people getting out of the country, and now what's going on? Members of whom we nations, except eight minority representatives, are more or less all Croats, and the question arises why we as Croats do not protect the interests of our country, but we agree to this role of the sacrifice of a global conspiracy that is locally pictured and currently being carried out means these elites and you are a godless member of that elite. But as I said about Mr. Rohatinski who told me about the young man, I've decided about everything at least, and so have you here, and you've actually made the least of your decisions about monetary policy. And then the question arises again is whether you are independent in your work, of course you are not, you have to do what they tell you, and I answer to them for you to be immersed in illegality. And you know why, you know why Mr. Governor Wolfie? Because then I can hold you to that thing. And then they say if you break off, if you're not going to do what we tell you here we have DORH, everything is ready and these are the methods that govern our country. I wish you every good Mr. Vujčić but your policy, in general, this servant policy that serves the global instead of serving my own people, I cannot support it, and therefore I will not support this report on the work of the CNB, nor me, nor my Live Wall club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3417	Thank you. We have one replica of the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3418	I thank the chairman. I thank you, colleague Pernar, for, therefore, pointing to one very important fact in this brief presentation, which is that Governor Vujčić, who is not the key person responsible for the situation in the Croatian economy, as well as his governors before, is that it is only one wheel in one machine which has therefore to plan to take advantage of Croatia to the limits possible. This is certainly the work of parliamentary representatives, as well as in this composition, as well as in those previous compositions and governments, but also informal groups of powers that will never come into this Assembly, which are the administrations of banks and corporations in part of Croatia, which also have an impact on monetary policy far greater and impact on the work of the CNB than the Croatian Parliament does, and even Governor Vujčić himself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3419	Thank you. The Honorable Agent Pernar will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3420	That we are back in that tragic situation as well as when I was talking about monetary policy, or foreign policy, when my speech looked over 2 million people online. At that time, no one was replicating me, and everyone was talking to Pernar Lupet, after Pernar was talking nonsense, but when I called out those responsible for the refugee crisis and this chaos, the whole thing that exists in the Middle East, that's when everyone was silent and I saw it in their replicas. I'm saying serious things here and no one from gentlemen or HDZ or the SDP contradicts what these words mean, except for my own colleague's colleagues, from the same club of MPs, which will say that you know it all, you're aware of all of it, and you kicks agree to it. For what? Because of the salary of I don't know the 13,000 kuna we already have and ask ladies and gentlemen whether the betrayal of our own people and our own country is worth it, and ask the ladies and gentlemen whether the betrayal of their own people and their own lands is worth it. Judas Iscariotski entered history as a traitor, sold Jesus the Nazarene for 30 pieces of silver. For what amount is this high house, the honorable home that everyone beats themselves that some high place sold both our citizens and our country. What's the price? Is there any price for which it could be made? There are always two categories of people. There are those who betray for money, and there are those who won't betray even under the threat of death and prison. I wish you ladies and gentlemen were more in this second category so we could fight together for our country's freedom. Because as you all know, today we are all but an independent and sovereign state, and that is exactly what the defenders went to war and laid down their lives, and we have not, unfortunately, protected this country and failed to fulfill our historic mission. That task will belong to the next generations to come behind us. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3421	Thank you very much. Now we're going to continue the individual debate, and I'm going to give my word to Honorary Representative Miri Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3423	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Here are the people around me who are more financially written than the CNB gentlemen, the people who were ministers on responsible duties and of course I will return only because I was a professional soldier for 17 years, an ordinary man, and I will give my position on Croatia in general and mainly on monetary policy. Of course, until the 1990s, Croatian people dreamed of their own independent state. Of course, it was a very important password "Croatian wallet in Croatian pocket". It happened that Croatian banks owned by the Croatian state were privatised by banks that were rescheduled by Croatian citizens for much less money. They were taken over by foreign owners, and so they began to control our banks created by the people for years. This is the part about banks. Croatian Central Bank, the Croatian National Bank is not my only interest now to criticize the leadership of the Croatian National Bank but complete policy, policy direction was wrong, and we see the results today. Indeed, when we observe what the results and effects are, not from the report Mr. Vujčić presented here, which I do not quite know if it is possible, but in the real world where I live in the underdeveloped area of Sinj, it is evident that young people are leaving, in the Cetinska krajina, Lica, Gorski Kotar. The effects on agriculture, the effects on the economy, are on the development at the worst levels, worse levels than during the Turkish Empire. Those spaces are more empty than when they were Turks and they were taking their haraks. The fact that only to criticise the CNB, not those policies on the left and on the right which supported this direction liberally, I do not know how to say or support these models cannot be reduced to one person. Surely, the people who died for the Croatian Free State did not die for foreign owners to dictate to us the pace of sending us certain letters, especially to those chosen in the Parliament, all with their knowledge, abilities and limitations. But the fact is that in this House there are representatives of our citizens and the fact is that the CNB and its representatives while the parliamentary representatives here are discussing must not behave unseriously, laugh at their statements and whisper, and that this is very uglyly reflected on us. We are a fact chosen from citizens, a fact you are more financially written than me and a better known problem, whether you can say it in the right light as fellow representatives who speak from their views, from their views, from your knowledge, from a real world, not under the reflectors of various institutions, but from Prevlaka to Vukovar. When we look at the effects of such policy and monetary policy, we see that in the case of Franak that it was simply not protected by a Croatian citizen, the Croatian national interest because it said so. It was about protecting the bankers. What are the reasons I don't know exactly, is whether the legal framework didn't allow you, but the fact is that it had to react promptly, that you must know this matter better than we Parliamentarians and it's our role to question you, and ultimately to vote. It's not nice for the CNB, the leaders not to report on a request for the State's audit as other institutions to enter. I mean, we should say it out loud, okay, we've been elected by representatives of the people who have a mandate and we don't mind, and the other thing about voting on your report is we have a legitimate right to listen to it because it's pointless this democratic system. The other day that letter sent from the European Bank was a direct blow to this Parliament. I don't know if you're looking at it from that point of view. Democracy, not being democratically involved at this time in monetary policy, which has a terriblely bad effect that I am now not listing everything that my colleagues from the SDP and HDZ have listed and mainly and colleagues from the Living Wall change Croatia, all these results are visible and they are bad. It's hard to explain where we came from. As I was saying, during the Turkish Empire, there was a harbinger who gave himself to the pastures, and now you just don't know anything. The change in interest, the franc, the gold was sold, I asked you last time in the last term for gold, I can't figure out who gave it to anyone or the finance minister or the governor to sell the gold. 15 tonnes or a gold picker is owned by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and I don't see who gave it for the right. Has anyone called a referendum? Who asked me then as an ordinary citizen or another can gold be sold? It's a national interest. If other countries protect their gold, I see no reason why Croatia is not. I repeat again, here are a number of colleagues who have been ministers, who are more financially written but we just need to look at the real results, we need to get out of this debate what is best, we need to look at how the sovereignty for which has been killed, for which many people fought after 9 centuries, young people have remained under the backs in the Homeland War both in the territory of Croatia and BiH, and they deserve it and deserve it. And our future generations, our young must have a healthy and hard foundation. We are passing, as counterpart Pernar said, we are passing here, today we are, in three years, two irrelevant will be someone else. But what about our young generations? Here we must have a common ground like the 1990s, these are very important topics for the survival of Croatian society for a sovereign state under international circumstances. And simply if we're not all for the same stick we catch up it's hard to expect style and so much, but together find the best solution for the Republic of Croatia. And yet again, we need to know that every day thousands of people leave the Republic of Croatia, young people. We see that demographic recovery is very important. What did monetary policy do about it? Why are we even going to foreign banks like that? Why don't we control them to have the same interest they have in their own countries? It means countless questions. This is not a criticism, I repeat again only to those who are at the head of the CNB, but otherwise to all policies, economic, financial and numerous other policies that have brought Croatian society into place, so I can literally say rasula. Is if we have two-thirds of Croatia's empty space and once there were many inhabitants. For example, the Dalmatian Zagora used to have inhabitants three times as many as it is now, not so long ago. So there are reasons. And certainly one of the sovereign, very important policies is monetary policy. And when I look at my colleagues, how those who have chosen this model because this Parliament has still chosen the leaders of the CNB, they have chosen this model and now suddenly they are criticising the newly elected MPs. I'm not going to criticize them, but I'm going to tell them that we can only change things together and, above all, monetary and sovereign policies in the given frameworks. There, I appeal once again to make sure that the Croatian wallet is in Croatian pocket for the survival of our young people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3424	Thank you. We have two replicas on your exhibit. He's the first to be respected representative of Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3425	Thank you, Chairman. Well, I'd like to say, Mr. Bulj says we don't know why it's happened to the banks, how we don't know, we all know, that the banks that are passing the laws, that they're tailored to their extent, that they're used to blackmail, pressures, said Frishcic in his day from HSS are not publicly, not through the media, but says Friscic, says, but in 4 eyes, if such things are done, then the funding of the state budget will be compromised, etc., etc., etc. It means to claim that you don't know why banks can do all this or ask themselves publicly I find immaterial. We should say openly and loudly, we do not live in a free country, we are ruled by bankers, our central bank is in the service of these bankers and the whole policy and internal and external is subordinated to their will and not to the will of the voters. The council doesn't rule, we can't replace the governor here. We're here even if we don't accept the work report, i.e. We can't even do this report, watch out for this paradox, this circus, so we're listening now, reporting for debate, someone on behalf of the club, as my colleague Bunjac, someone personally, individually, but what in the end? Can we say we're not satisfied with the report? We can't. So that's our power. We can't even express a disagreement, let alone something more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3426	Thank you for answering the honourable representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3427	My colleague Pernar, I said I was a man with my certain knowledge financially. I just said that surely the governor could know more than I could, which is why this situation in which we are in matters of monetary policy is better than I am. But I can't, you haven't replicated me at all because I've been saying that we've lost sovereignty since the '90s that we lost under that password we went to in the Homeland War, the Croatian wallet in the Croatian pocket is the fact that that's not the case. And I was not only critical of him at all, but Croatian policies were not sovereign but dojornical. That's absolutely a fact, and that's where I'd agree with you. Because people in Croatia don't have to be written but the real situation on the ground if two-thirds of Croatia is empty, the only thing about Zagreb, Rijeka and larger centres where there are no more cattle, no more agriculture, no economic resources, no potential, some tourism that they wouldn't literally have, and this is how it's catastrophic. It is very important that we all withdraw the same stick together with our options and return the Croatian wallet to every Croatian citizen's pocket. And this is a paradigm, i.e. under folk signs that our Croatian banks that were robbed first to establish responsibility because someone handed over the property that our citizens, our parents, fathers, mothers were creating in foreign hands. That's a fact. And that's where I would agree with you, and the models and the modalities implemented by the CNB have voted the policies in this House. It didn't fall off Marska. Mr. Wolf didn't fall from Mars. That's a fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3428	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3429	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So it is no coincidence that the Swiss franc dominated these two, three days in the debate on the CNB, so it is definitely one of the biggest problems of our citizens in this past period that we had to solve and solve. We, as Government, dealt with it together with the CNB, the representatives of the CNB participated in the story, the result is what it is, thanks first of all to the Government because both the CNB and some other soufflés on the side had another position. So the European Commission has warned us that it would be good if we were based on selective social criteria and that we applied only to some of these 55,000 people who were loaded with credit. You know how much that number was in the first passage, in the first iteration of 2800 people. If you could solve my Swiss franc that way, you wouldn't. And that was the key reason why we moved on. So by expanding social criteria, we might get 500 more people, maybe 1,000, maybe several thousand, but again there would be a problem with the Swiss franc and all those people who couldn't repay that loan. And another thing, so that right took advantage of almost all 55,000 people, something less. However, I must warn of one fact and all those people who have made a credit conversion and have not yet solved all their problems, they are still very difficult to service these loans because of this crisis that lasted 6.7 years in Croatia. Who, even today, are looking at every kuna so that these loans and under these more favourable conditions can be paid. And let's never forget that. So this wasn't a gift that was a correction that was necessary, which gave them a new hope and that hope still lives because they haven't paid off their loans yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3430	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Bulj will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3431	As a former minister and professor of economics, of course, you should know and know the matter, but is it possible that one savings-credit cooperative places Austrian huge money and brings entire settlements, the whole street, i.e. I've heard on the island of Rab that it's enormous with interest that can't be in the interest of usury, looting interest, and I certainly can't do that in Austria because it would certainly shut them down at least as a lender. It is allowed, it happens in Croatia, we have to monitor it daily that people simply cannot repay their credit. Returning, not returning is always the main one. And as a member of the EU, a few hundred kilometers away from us is Austria and in their country this cannot happen and their savings-credit cooperatives in Croatia are doing so. The same is true in the case of francs, what is not allowed in their countries is that this bad product was good to place in Croatia. But someone has to be responsible, not this attack, someone is responsible, someone is in charge of the Republic of Croatia to worry about it. There is also a question of responsibility to every man in the Republic of Croatia, every citizen, citizen. Therefore, I think it is the final moment to return as I have said and what most colleagues have said to the modern concept of managing the sovereignist concept of governance of monetary policies and other policies. Because this way, they'll occupy the Republic of Croatia not with a rifle, but with money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3432	Thank you very much. And now the closing word on behalf of the Living Wall's Club of Representatives will have a distinguished representative, Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3433	Thank you. So thank you, Chairman. Well, here's what we could call this House a puppet show, but this House isn't even that. Because in a puppet show, dolls do certain things by order of the manipulator, but in our Parliament, we don't even have the possibility that a hand above us can't and can't say no or accept that either. So we're coming here the governor says there's a report, most of me believe citizens aren't satisfied with the work of the CNB, we can't refuse that, we can't say we're not satisfied with that report. Comrade Bulj, the first is not satisfied and what can we do? We can yawn. Here's how much this Parliament has power. So he has the power to do nothing, and that makes it clear to you from the plane that this House is not the place where decisions are made. Hypothetically even by amending the law that we are allowed to disagree with the find or the work of the CNB with that report, to reject it again cannot be replaced by the governor, which means that I don't really know why I get the salary of 13,000 kuna plus 1500 kunas. So I'm sitting here, talking, not talking, voting, not being able to, deciding I can't see about this kind of banal thing, so everything else can be decided of course, but the core theme of the central bank can't be here. And that's what interests me. I can vote on a report on the university's work, a university, whether someone has spent 5 thousand kunas less or more, purposefully or not, but on the policy that the whole country depends on, the whole people can't do. I express this regret and believe that this is the way the National Bank works, or the National Bank Act, has put us in an absurd position to have the right to vote, for God's sakes, and we cannot vote on key issues. And the question is, where's the exit? Someone will say the EU does not allow the governor to replace Vujcic, although we are not all satisfied with him. Well gentlemen, then call the CNB to the bank, call the currency committee under the coercion of Brussels or exchange office or Brussels exchange office. Here, call the National Bank of Brussels, and then we'll all understand. However, I don't think this name CNB is actually appropriate for that institution and that our citizens are actually deceived. They thought if they went to the polls they would decide, and then it turns out not, not Brussels decides, you citizens don't decide by choosing their representatives or they even decide. No, decisions shall be taken outside Brussels or where the European Central Bank is already the centre of the European Central Bank. Is that democracy? Is that why people went to war? I'm telling you it's not. In the European Union, there is one deficit of democracy. It's actually a dictatorship, but this time I don't know about dictatorships like in Libya or proletariats in socialism, but it's about the dictatorship of a handful of people holding the central banks and managing them. And the rest of us and the people and the state are actually their slaves, we're doing more and more for less and we're still happy about what we have those crumbs that we have. I hope the people will open their eyes and wake up one day against this conspiracy that is of a global nature, but of course also at a local level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3434	Thank you. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3435	Comrade Pernar, this is more of a Pharaoh system, but the fact is that the head man of the CNB is, if we can know it, if we can't vote, and if we can't vote, it's questionable whether it's national because we're still the people's representatives. And that is a direct blow to parliamentary democracy as well as that letter two days ago that struck the foundations of parliamentaryism, what we had a hard time fighting for after the 9th century. If the Croatian Parliament cannot vote or make a proposal and the European Bank official or the head of the European Bank is wondering what these parliamentary representatives have, who they are, from where they have the right to look at this report at all, then it says that it is a direct blow to the sovereign Republic of Croatia, sovereignty because this is the House that should be honorable, but it is not you or me from this half year. You're a couple, a month, two. It's not us who did this. We're not the ones who did this. We're not the ones who did this. What was signed on the EU's accession, we still don't know as well as the people. Simply from the left and from the right at that time and the center were flying stars, everything would be golded. But unfortunately, the real situation is that in Croatia there is a greater demographic disaster today than during the Turkish Empire. That's a fact. If we go all the way around now, undeveloped from where I come from, it's an eclectic fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3436	Thank you. The honourable representative, Ivan Pernar, will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3437	Mr. Bulj, thank you for this sincere replica that you've actually painted the condition that it is. However, we are going back to the end of the entire ballad as well as the debate on the Electoral Law where I was then saying that it was completely irrelevant what amendments to the law we will do if we chosen will not decide things already will be decided by someone else. In the same way, the National Bank Act puts us in this stupid position where we can't decide anything and where it's clear from the plane that I'm an election process in this country has become meaningless. So why did I go to the election in the first place? Why was I wasting my time? Why was I exposed to the media link? Why do I have to fight with my HDZ colleagues on my left? Why? Is it the purpose of this House that we give a speech and replicate each other or that we decide? I think we should make a decision. The people chose us here for that. But the Law on the National Bank, which is forced by the European Union, makes it impossible for us to do so, and for this reason I also oppose the current Law on the National Bank and the directives of the European Union itself as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3438	Thank you. And now the final word will be given by the esteemed governor of the National Bank, Mr. Boris Vujcic, of the Croatian National Bank. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3439	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs thank you very much for the debate. In the first part I answered some questions, now I tried to systematicize them, but there were a lot of things that were open, so I'm going to try to concentrate on a couple I mean more important things that have now turned up at the end of the debate. So first of all, I must say I am very sorry to hear that I am listening to a debate that is going towards monetary policy politicising. So Croatia, Mr. Maric said I've been in the Croatian People's Bank since the 1990s. I came in '97. the year, late '97. for the Director of the Research Directorate. After that, I've been chosen three times in this House. For the first time, I was proposed by HSLS, the second time HDZ, the third time again as the HDZ deputy chief negotiator for Croatia's entry into the EU and the fourth time SDP for the governor. So here I am very well politically connected or perhaps what Mr. Pernar is saying is true or people believe that I did something good and that I have some professional quality to do this job. I have also been elected to places of no political will in international organisations, but by the vote of people who voted probably for professional qualities. And it wouldn't be good if because of the CNB, not because of me, I'm here today, tomorrow I'll be somewhere else, but it wouldn't be good to let an institution we've been building since '91. The year and which we built as a really quality institution, I guarantee that it is a very quality institution, you can ask colleagues in Europe in rating agencies in international financial institutions what kind of reputation the CNB has. It would not be good to weaken the institution in this way and question the independence of the institutions. Because what has now been said is nothing more than a question of the independence of the institutions. It's not something we have since yesterday, it's not something we have even for the EU. I was the deputy chief negotiator, and I know very well what kind of contract we signed because we signed an international contract that guarantees it. But we've decided on it before. Croatia has decided to have an independent central bank without the EU. And that's something good. And that's the gain of all developed countries and we know that when central banks are not independent, when it can be reduced when the leadership wants to do so, that management no longer does what should be done in the interests of all citizens but must be treated according to political options. That's what we had, and it turns out it's not good. And that's what matters that I think you should keep regardless of whether I'm here tomorrow or anyone else. There's a lot of talk about sovereignty. Ask yourself this, would you sovereignly decide here on economic policy and laws relating to economic sovereignty that the CNB and you can ask all relevant analysts did not allow Croatia to enter the programme with the IMF and the European Commission. If we had entered, if it hadn't been for this kind of HNB policy, then we would have had a program and then the degree of sovereignty of Croatia would have been significantly lower because we would have to do what the program says. As Greece had to do, as Ireland had to do, as Spain had to do, as Romania had to do. So a whole series of countries during this crisis. So it takes a good understanding of what sovereignty really means and whether the CNB contributes to sovereignty or not. I am convinced that it makes a significant contribution to sovereignty and that we did not have such a monetary and regulatory policy the sovereignty of decision-making and executive authorities, and therefore the legislative authorities around the law would be much smaller. What happens in the countries that have programmes is that they get into parliaments their own packages of laws that they have to adopt to allow money to be made available to countries that can service their own debts. It was mentioned, I think it's also very bad, I don't think we should discuss it that way at the moment in the Parliament, but since it's constantly tending I have to say at least a few words about it. ZPK wall-conversion of Swiss-HNB role. I'll just say one thing, which is that the CNB was actively involved from the beginning, that the CNB did and published an analysis of the problem immediately practically, I think 10 days after the Swiss franc was arrested in early 2015 when the Swiss central bank gave up the fixation or... the exchange ceiling between the euro and the Swiss franc. And that we also proposed solutions to help people with problems with the Swiss franc. And that we have proposed a whole series of models by managing themselves to make these models a legal risk for Croatia as small as possible. Because it's a legal risk for the whole country and for all citizens. It was our duty. That's my job, that's what I'm paid for. So, when I get such a law of opinion to warn which risks can be effected and what I think can be reduced by which way. It's my job. If I hadn't done it then I wouldn't be doing my job, then I should be called not to do my job like all of us in the CNB. Did those risks take effect? They did. And that's where I'm gonna stop. Because it is not in the interest of the Republic of Croatia to further discuss this neither here nor in general public. And this is always done and trust me that Croatia will not benefit from it. The fact that the opinion of the European Central Bank is written in the CNB, I don't think it should be said here either. First because it offends the integrity and professional ethics and people in the CNB but also insults the EU institutions. It is very easy to go to the European Central Bank's website and check that such opinions exist for a whole series of other central banks. You can see that in neighbouring Slovenia you already have several rounds of bill and opinion of the European Central Bank. Well, that's not what the CNB said, is it? It's the usual procedure. There are always mentions of things from the past, from the sale of gold to the Swiss franc in 2005. You don't talk about this report. As far as gold is concerned on the government's website, it writes a very clear explanation of what it is and how much the finance ministry would have gotten money from the CNB if the gold hadn't been sold in comparison with what the government did. As for 2005, I'm not going to say it again, I've said it nicely where the risks are. I don't remember anyone else, I guess I'm not the only expert supporting me. Perhaps Mr. Maras is not an expert, he said he was not an expert, but let's say Professor Lovrinovic said he was more professional than we were, so where was he then in 2005 to say it was risky and that it should be banned? I repeat, this allows the Law on Mandatory Relations. The CNB cannot prohibit lending in the Swiss franc. My personal opinion since then is that the Croatian Parliament should amend the Law on Mandatory Relations and allow for exclusive long-term housing lending in the kuna and in the euro, which is why the monetary policy of the CNB is related to the euro. I'm not going to repeat why, I've already said that I don't know how many times in this House and because it's going to stay that way while I'm running it. When I no longer lead her, maybe someone else will lead a different policy, maybe we'll have a policy of depreciation of the kuna. Will there be more or less blocked citizens then? More, quite certain. If we're going to have a higher inflation rate, will there be more or less blocked citizens? No more, no less. When food and gasoline prices rise and the Croatian consumer price index rise, will citizens get better or worse? Worse, not better. In 2012, I said what kind of monetary policy I'd be leading, even though I'm not running it myself. I can be overvoted at the CNB Council, but the complete team believes in such monetary policy and I am still absolutely convinced that this is the best monetary policy for Croatia, and it certainly made the crisis smaller, not bigger in Croatia. And that's why we'll continue to lead. If someone thinks that a different policy would be better, then you have to explain why and how, what instruments to change, what way and what effects they would have. That's the debate I'm expecting. If you tell me that, I'm not a stubborn man, maybe you can convince me that we're running a really bad monetary policy. The CNB doesn't talk about the pink world. If anyone I talk about for years about the need for structural reforms in the country and it is very clear that the structural problems of the Croatian economy are enormous, until they are resolved there is no such monetary and fiscal policy, remember this, nor the fiscal policy that will solve these problems. Because at this point Croatia's fundamental economic problems are neither monetary nor fiscal policy that is now being talked about. They're structural, they're dozens of structural reforms that need to be implemented throughout the country that makes it less effective than our competitors. If we're less efficient than our competitors, then we won't be able to move forward. And others change, we change structurally very slowly, very little is done. And it has to be a focus, otherwise no other policy will be able to replace it. So far from seeing the world with one eye, some pink, and some other people seeing how bad it is. I see very well, and I know exactly where the problems are, only someone should accept them. It's easy to think that printing money can solve real problems, it can't. Printing money is a nominal thing, not a real thing. You can make as much money as you want. You were a soldier when you entered the Serbian province how much did you see that money lying on the road? You could print them all you wanted, but they're not worth it, those money's not worth it. If there's nothing real behind them, they're not worth it. We lived through the periods when the money was printed so that we had zeroes that barely stopped on the bill so they weren't worth it. Real problems need to be solved where they are in the real world. So we should also work to remove barriers, regulation of the product market, and in the health system, and in the pension system, improve the efficiency of public administration which is very bad at all measures, improve a system of education that is very bad at all measures. Take a look at the PISA tests where Croatia is. Only Bulgaria, Romania and Greece are worse. We won't be able to move forward unless we have quality young people and well-educated. Why do industries that can bring us higher growth require more knowledge? Surely the problem of eviction is, it's very clear that it's a problem and it's a sad story, but it has nothing to do with monetary policy. It's a matter of regional policy and it's a matter of structural policy again. He won't be able to do it, don't think that any money or anyone will solve it, he won't solve it... So we have to start dealing, public companies how effective they are, should we say, benchmark them as we do State Audit or consultants and say these are public enterprises that we compare with public enterprises of the same kind in other countries, whether they are efficient enough or not, whether they have too many employees or too little employees, what their results are compared to such... So you'll see if they're better again or worse. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Where you have a worse situation, something needs to be changed. And a whole series of such things if we implement it then we will increase the potential growth rate of Croatia's GDP. And if we don't, then the level of public and external debt we still have is such that it makes the country very sensitive to any disturbances on the international market. And we can't get away from it. So we have to be very careful, it's kind of a race with time. At this point we live in a world of very benign low interest rates situations. This was also ensured by the monetary policy of both the CNB and the European Central Bank of the FED of a very low interest rate. But it would be dangerous to think that such interest rates will remain very long because they create new risks to financial stability. And those risks to financial stability are growing from day to day. At some point, it's going to get so big that this situation with interest rates won't be able to stay. If at that point we still have a low potential GDP growth rate and this level of debt, that's the point where sovereignty is lost. You lose sovereignty when you are unable to fulfil your obligations. So that's what my message would be, that I'm not going through a whole series of other issues that have been raised right now, that I'm not saying that at this point is the same thing, because I've already said that in this assembly a few times when it comes to wondering what the role of the CNB is in bank regulation, just maybe to explain it one more time. The CNB doesn't approve of credit to banks, it's not the role of supervisory. So we're not looking at whom banks lend loans, it's a business decision by a private, business entity. The role of regulation of the banking system is to protect deposits in banks. So the regulator through the prudential regulation determines the capital that the bank must have in order to stand between deposits on one side that people carry into banks, otherwise they would not carry into banks, otherwise they would have... the banks, the withdrawal of deposits from banks and the risks that the bank takes when lending. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we need to ensure that banks have enough of that capital so that people don't lose their deposits one day, which has already happened. It's already happened to us and we're doing it. And we don't look at who they approve of loans and tell him you can give him credit, not him. Well, a couple hundred of us could do that kind of work for every bank that approves loans. We don't know that, we can't know, it's not our job. Our job is, however, when we come to the bank and we see that she gave a bad loan, that we think it's bad, that you tell them now you have to book it, another... The part of your gain must be put aside so if you do not get that loan back you must get out and cover that loss you have achieved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's a basic business that works regulatoryly to maintain the stability of the banking system. Where she's not there, you can see that there are risks to taxpayers being materialized. And in many countries that have been mentioned today, taxpayers have had to resuscitate the banking system over the last six years. Ours aren't and won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3440	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He's the first to be respected representative of Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3441	Respect. Well, here's what Mr. Vujčić says is that he's a top expert, so here he is, and there's politics behind him, but I don't know what institutes that consider him to be professional and capable of the role he's playing. Well, here's Mr. Wolfie. I only have one question for you to answer. I hope you don't run away from the answer. I hope you won't escape in some way or answer another question. So I only have one question, it's very simple, and the kids in primary school will understand it, and it's like this, Mr. Wolf. Please, if the money is a loan, or to answer the question, is all the money a loan? Does money in the European Union only come from taking credit, or is there possibly some kind of emissions from a non-credit central bank? That's the first question. It means all money is credit. And the second question is, how do you pay back the interest money on those loans if only the principal is created when credit is issued and plus interest is to be paid back? So how do all the EU member states or all the people together, etc., return more money than there is? Thank you, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3442	The esteemed governor of the CNB will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3443	Maybe a little while longer and we can talk about it later. Yeah, there's money that's not credit. I can explain to you exactly how central banks create money and how it is created by multiplication in the banking system and maybe not to bother people now, we can sit down and we'll explain it to you. And as for where the money for the loan is, he has to come from some income, from those who took those loans. Where else would he come from?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3444	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3445	Thank you very much. You told your colleague Vujčić that our debate has entered the independence of the CNB, rather than I think parliamentary representatives can debate and that it is not an intrusion into the independence of the Croatian bank. We have a right to talk about it. However, it is not a problem for parliamentarians, on the contrary, the Croatian bank is addicted, lost, on other institutions that send correspondence to Croatia how to behave. So the Croatian bank does not lose independence because of us in the Parliament, but because of these external influences that behave as they act undemocratically destroying the fundamental democratic preambles in one country to send open letters to the public so that one Parliament can behave in accordance with the proposed state audit and the right to vote on the report, which does not affect independence. So you're here, basically the CNB, here are representatives of the people who should vote on the report nothing else. And your independence has put our people's banks at risk by this foreign institution that imposes a view that we should act as elected MPs because the CNB only says that the people's representatives of the people elected by the citizens should have at least the right to vote. Zo is the basic problem where the thesis has obviously turned. One more question for a while. As possible, I did not attack you with this, but all of the policies of the 90s as it is possible that at the local level the mayors must pass the commission and the Croatian government can borrow without passing the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3446	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3447	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Governor Vujčić, here at the end of today's debate you managed to convince me that you really live in one of your worlds that it is none of your business what we are discussing here today or what concerns Croatian citizens at all. You are responsible for the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, to meet what is required of you and are also ready to defend them at all costs. Among other things, you stated that we should not be here insulting esteemed institutions that have the means not for one life but for a thousand lives. So here I accept your claim that they are offended and that it personally offends you but it also insults me personally to watch people sleep on the floor of this cold at the Importan Center. It offends me when I come to the Bus Station to see buses full of young educated people about whom you have just recently lamentated who are leaving Croatia mass. It offends me to see empty Slavonian villages, insults me to see the ban on fishing on the Croatian Adriatic as Italians extract billions from our Adriatic. It also offends me to see the accomplished citizens who don't sleep at night, who think about suicide while you live very well with the MPs, as comfortable as if you were citizens of America. It insults me just as much as I know that citizens don't have a good meal. It insults me to know that they do not have quality health care and that their perspective in the future with this monetary policy is even worse. So I'd like to tell you on that side that we're obviously on the opposite side and the question is, who's finally going to get ahead in the future? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3448	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3449	Thank you, dear Vice President. Mr Vujčiću, you and your institution refused to prosecute banks for illegally setting interest rates or parameters on interest rates that they spoke in loans agreed before 1 January 2013. You have interpreted how banks are allowed to voluntarily define variable parameters and fixed interest rates in variable interest rates. This is not permitted under the Mandatory Relations Act, and the Consumer Credit Act provides that a bank that does not contract with a parameter debtor is to be fined between 80,000 and 200 thousand kuna fines. Since you didn't want to prosecute banks, the debtors went after banks on their own. There have already been hundreds of wrongful verdicts brought in infringing courts where banks are punished by fines of 80,000 kuna. At the request of the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court rejected the request for an assessment of the constitutionality of the infringement provisions and decided that the provisions of the Constitutional Constitution had been violated only changed the date of the infringement from 1 January 2014 on 1 April 2014. One exclusive. I have just learned today that the European Court of Justice has also answered the previous issue of the Bjelovar Criminal Court, which requested that the European Court of Justice confirm whether it is allowed to punish banks in concrete proceedings, is this contrary to EU law. The EU court also confirmed that this is not contrary to EU law. Therefore, the Constitutional Court has also confirmed that the infringement provisions are in the office and the EU court has confirmed that this is not contrary to EU law. I no longer see any obstacles to the punishment of banks and this punishment can be brought into the budget of the Republic of Croatia from nine to 25 billion kuna. This House will have to take into account that it finally determines how to determine the initial fixed, initial fixed interest rate part in all credits in which it is not agreed.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3450	Thank you very much. With that, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3451	I think since I'm not, it's a legal question, because I'm not a legal professional, but only economically, there's a colleague who's a legal expert, so he'll say something.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3452	Thank you very much, Mr. Alexic. It's one thesis that's been very famous and you've been very eloquently representing it for a long time. I would like, before answering this question, to actually point out that I would say one illogical thing that I would like to remove from similar discussions, which is the debate on the jurisdiction of individual state bodies, right? The CNB has a number of its responsibilities, and competences are laid down by the regulations governing its work. The responsibilities of the CNB shall not include the responsibilities of regular courts, specialised courts, arbitration, state attorney, etc. So we need to know what's in the jurisdiction of the CNB? In the jurisdiction of the CNB, monitoring, or supervision of credit institutions, regarding the application of the Consumer Credit Act. The CNB also regularly monitored all forms and all issues arising from the law, including the question of bargaining, how to negotiate variable interest rates. You know that two amendments to the Consumer Credit Act were adopted in 2012 and 2013. The 2013 issue is particularly relevant. It was often referred to by you, and it was indeed there that I would say a termological discrepancy in the law where on the one hand there was this dispositive norm that regulated the way banks should, I said, that banks must define the parameters, yes, fixed margins and periods of change, and on the other hand, a violation provision that you often referred to or determined, prescribed that banks should contract with creditors. I, too, am very glad that the Constitutional Court, by its decision of 3rd or 3rd May of 3rd of this year, took one position that the banks should have, i.e. the Constitutional Court, set a minimum standard for the banks to meet that obligation and explicitly said. That's what it says, the Constitutional Court says additionally that means that each single debtor should fill in at least a notification of the change in interest rates in accordance with that legal obligation. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much.]] Following the Constitutional Court's decision, the Croatian National Bank again exercised supervision and found that the banks had fulfilled their obligations in that part. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3453	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And I will see you again Wednesday at 9.30 p.m. when the first item of the Annual Financial Report of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development for 2015. Have a nice weekend.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-04-0.u3454	The next item is the half-yearly information on the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy. The applicant is CNB. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: "It takes note of the half-yearly information on the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy". Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. With 109 votes to, 3 abstentions, 11 against, I find that most of the votes have come to the conclusion that it was proposed by the parent council. Honorable MPs and MPs continue to work. Representative Hajdash Doncic.
