ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u18009	Good morning, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We're continuing the session. Here's your colleague, Zmajlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u18010	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the SDP club, I am looking for a break because of the situation with the withdrawal of European funds and the endangerment of the complete operational Cohesion Competitiveness Programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u18011	Thank you. Dear colleague Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u18012	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And the HDZ Club is looking for a break to make a waste management plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u18013	I thank my esteemed colleague Bacic. Do we have any more? We don't. I'm setting a break for 20 minutes, so at 9.50, we're back to work. Thank you. Then 10 minutes at 9.40 we continue to work. Thank you. It's 9:00.35.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u18014	On behalf of the SDP representative's club, a distinguished colleague, Michael Zmajlovic, asked for a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u18015	Dear Vice President, fellow MPs and fellow MPs. The SDP club sought a break for jeopardising 6.8 billion euros in the Operational Programme of Cohesion and Competitiveness, meeting ex-ante conditions to be met by 31.12.2016. We are at the end of the year that at least as far as environmental protection and energy efficiency are concerned, citizens will not remember anything. It's been a year and it doesn't even exist. All the projects we've launched have been stopped, I don't see any eco-acceptable devices co-financed, no electric car, I don't see any residential buildings or family houses that have been renovated. And the system is hundreds of millions of kunas in minus. We've been presented with two waste management plans. With both are dissatisfied from profession to local leaders and businessmen. In this year alone, projects to build a waste management centre worth more than 2 billion kuna have been stopped. It's almost twice as much as the Peljega Bridge, which is announced as a rescue for the fallen construction industry. That's just as much tax reform as I take to local self-government. So you take billions of kunas out of the city budget and you take billions of them through stopping projects that are being built across the country. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation is extremely serious. Here we are no longer just talking about the penalty that we will pay at the beginning of 2018 because we obviously accepted them as a done deal. We're no longer talking about waste disposals for citizens who are almost certainly on the move. It's just that our environmental protection system has fallen into an unimaginable financial hole. The fund is down to 750 million kuna in just a year. Where does that lead? Now it's like a skeleton in a closet, and it's the result of an absolute failure to find one man. The same man who accepted all the financial plans, precisely those financial plans for 2016 and in front of the cameras, said he had taken over a financially stable and regulated system. We're talking about environmental protection. Ladies and gentlemen, Croatia can no longer be the hostage of finding one man. I told Minister Dobrović that I am always available to him for advice. And now I'm offering it. Because the situation has taken dramatic proportions. My colleagues and colleagues, what does Dobrović's coalition partner HDZ do? Run away from responsibility and drill the minister from his government through the media. Mr. Plenkovic, Mrs. Grief, I invite you to stop plotting. Take responsibility. This isn't about one man's problem or one resistor. This is about the problem of the entire government, the problem of the whole of Croatia, which the European Commission once again warns us about. I have to admit it's terrible to watch from the Parliament what's going on in the government. We've got a whole corridor coming down in front of us and we're gonna do everything in our power to stop it. We asked for a break on behalf of the club to seek Mr. Prime Minister's testimony. If he knows what's going on in his government, if his ministers communicate and if he has the courage to change them. If he can't do it, the SDP will. This way, I announce if Mr Plenkovic does not react soon, the SDP will launch the impeachment of Minister Dobrović in the Croatian Parliament. Government colleagues may have time, but Croatia does not, and therefore we must react immediately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u18016	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Dragonovich. Next on behalf of the HDZ Club for a break, distinguished counterpart Branko Bačić appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u18017	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club has a clear position on the waste management plan and on the withdrawal of funds from the Operational Programme of Competitiveness and Cohesion, whose total value is almost 7 billion euros. We have communicated this attitude many times. I'm gonna do it here and now I'm gonna do it again. For years, Croatia has been building a waste management system and this system has relied on the Waste Management Strategy and the Waste Management Plan, which was agreed with the completed pre-accession negotiations for Croatia's entry into full membership in the European Union, resulting also in the signing and closing of Chapter 21 – Environment. In these negotiations and in this contract, we have made certain commitments, among other things, that we will close all open dumps with waste and build waste management centres by the end of 2018. Later, the SDP government found that 13 such centres needed to be built and that was the final project I would say before this government took responsibility for Croatia's leadership. Meanwhile, the Russian Commission has particularly highlighted among its policies a circular economy policy that involves turning waste on raw materials and reducing waste through sorting, recycling and other facilities that would contribute to the reduction of waste in waste management centres. In this regard, Minister Dobrovic and the Ministry of Environmental Protection made a waste management plan which we also had some objections at the HDZ Club, and we made observations about the development of the plan itself, which resulted in the ministry following such remarks and also following an observation that came from the European Commission amending the waste management plan, and this waste management plan has just concluded a public debate. And I expect that the Ministry of Environment and Nature and Energy will, in that sense, complete this plan. Namely, what the European Commission has said is that it does not oppose the plan but in its letter it claims that it is necessary to specify, to make a thorough analysis of the existing waste management system and to give a more comprehensive framework for moving to a new system that implies building more recycling yards, recycling centres and which is not contrary to the strategy that we have adopted today that is justified and that is the construction of 13 centres. Therefore, what we hold at the HDZ Club is that we expect the government to continue to build a waste management centre especially for those who are already at a very high stage of realisation, why some documentation has already been carried out and for the other centres to consider their capacity, their pre-reliance that, in this sense, through the management plan and the waste, the government clearly complies with these views that we have already expressed throughout the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23771	I thank my esteemed colleague, Branko Bačić. We move to the continuation of the session, to the agenda point: - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Framework Agreement between the Swiss Federal Council and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the implementation of the Swiss-Croatian cooperation programme to reduce economic and social inequalities within the enlarged European Union, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 52; Proposer of the Act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to you in boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate under Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and by the Committee on Regional Development and European Union Funds. You also received reports at the session. Does the applicant's representative want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. I call on the state secretary of state of the Ministry of Regional Development and the European Union's funds to give the reasons for the law to Ms. Smemonko Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23772	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, appreciation for MPs and MPs. As announced in your materials, there is a proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Framework Agreement between the Swiss Federal Council and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the implementation of the Swiss-Croatian Cooperation Programme with a view to reducing economic and social inequalities within the enlarged European Union. And as you've heard, this is the final proposal sent to the emergency procedure. The Swiss Parliament approved a non-refundable contribution to the purpose of reducing economic and social inequalities within the enlarged EU, amounting to 45 million Swiss francs in the period of allocation of funds running from 11 December 2014. On 7 May 2015, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a decision to initiate the procedure for the conclusion of the Framework Agreement between the Swiss Federal Council of the Republic of Croatia on the implementation of this cooperation programme signed in Zagreb on 30 June 2015. The Framework Agreement shall therefore be applied provisionally from the date of its signature until ratification, which means that it is also necessary to adopt this law in an urgent manner in order to allow the financing of the programmes and projects involved in this Framework Agreement. The total value of the Swiss financial mechanism for the period from the date of signature of the project agreement until 31 May 2017 is 369 million and 88 thousand kuna. The value of the Swiss contribution to the Republic of Croatia provided for in this Agreement is 313 million and 725 thousand kuna, while the rest of the amount will be provided by the authorities of the state administration in their budgets. The value provided for co-financing from the state budget under this agreement is 55 million HRK 363,000. An important part of the financial resources of this Swiss-Croatian agreement or cooperation programme will be spent in areas with low economic and social indicators. You have seen in your materials under the cooperation programme programmes are agreed with the aim of promoting economic development, social security, environmental protection, strengthening civil society, and within 4 established thematic areas. Thematic areas involved include security, stability and support for reforms, environment and infrastructure, human and social development and the Croatian-Switzerland Research Programme. In addition to the latest thematic area relating to horizontal issues or technical assistance programmes. For more details on this, the projects involved in these thematic areas may be important to note that one of the most important projects in the thematic area of security, stability and support for reforms, a demining project and social economic integration that will be carried out by its greatest work or work in the area of Sisak-Moslavina County, i.e. to demining the area of Kotar Forest, as well as education and strengthening the capacity of residents to qualify for sustainable development and life in this mine suspected area. Thematic area, environment and infrastructure include a preliminary list of 7 infrastructure projects of a total value of 203,763 million kuna, which will be financed by a list of priorities which includes projects for the City of Delnice and the municipality of Fužina, water supply and waste water. Next by list of priorities are the Municipality of Brod Moravica, then the municipalities of Mrkoljaj, Lokva, Skrad and Ravna Gora. All these areas, i.e. local self-government units in the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County area. The thematic area of human and social development is mainly covered by research projects whether it is investments in higher education programmes in Croatia, then research projects to be implemented jointly by the Swiss and Croatian research institutions. One part of the funding will be invested to support the strengthening of Croatian SMEs and their participation in the Eurostars programme, as well as the modernisation of the programme of vocational education and training of the Ministry of Science and Education for the implementation of such projects. Thematic area called the Special Distribution includes part of the funds to be allocated for as a gift to NGOs. These funds will be provided by the Government's Association Office and, in addition, there is an instrument for the preparation of projects that have already begun implementation, carried out by Croatian Waters and includes the preparation of project documentation for infrastructure projects that are included in the thematic area 2. The Technical Assistance Fund of course includes part of the financial assistance to be spent by the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds defined in this Agreement as a national coordination unit. This was briefly about this agreement. Given that the adoption of the law is announced by an emergency procedure, it is necessary for the purpose of making its provisions part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia, and to ensure that all the projects listed in this Framework Agreement are implemented. In view of the nature of the procedures for the confirmation of international contracts which the State is then formally expressing its willingness to be bound by a signed international contract and the fact that amendments or additions to the text of this Agreement cannot be carried out at this stage of the procedure, it is not possible to amend the aliocated amounts for the implementation of acceptable activities that are proposed to adopt this law by an urgent procedure which then unites both first and second readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23773	I would like to thank the guest secretary of state, Ms. Smonymki Đuric, for this opening statement. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. For the first debate on behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, distinguished counterpart Josko Klisovic appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23774	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I also welcome Madam Secretary of State Đuric. The SDP club will support this ratification of this agreement because it is useful for Croatia. That's quite clear. We get the donated 45 million Swiss francs and it would be crazy to say no to that. However, the proposed law, or framework agreement to be ratified, aims to reduce economic, social equality within the enlarged EU. Someone might ask why that is? By the rate of each new country in EU membership, the EU's common market is expanding to the country's market. Countries such as Switzerland, but also Norway, Iceland, Lechtenstein have the right to access the EU common market under special conditions, I would say. In return, through a specific mechanism, these countries participate in the financing of certain agreed projects in the new EU Member State to reduce economic and social inequalities within the enlarged EU. The mechanism is based on the Memorandum of Understanding concluded between the European Community and Switzerland in this case and on the accompanying Swiss law and we call it actually the Swiss mechanism. By concluding the 2014 Memorandum of Understanding, Switzerland increased its contribution to reducing economic and social disadvantages within the enlarged EU by an additional contribution to the Republic of Croatia in the amount of 45 million Swiss francs. Projects that will be realised or financed by this money must be approved by Switzerland by 31 May 2017 and payments will run until 2024. On the basis of the above, a framework agreement is therefore concluded in order to determine the conditions for the delivery of Swiss aid and the conditions under which it will be managed. Croatia's framework agreement found that the Swiss mechanism financed projects to promote economic development and improve working conditions, improve social security, protect the environment, improve public security and strengthen civil society. Now, these areas are written in the bill, listening to your opening statement you mentioned some other areas or am I perhaps not well connected or have you changed specific areas within these areas? In any case, these are areas that are defined and I think they are very well defined and that is something where Croatia has a need to finance, it needs to develop programmes. What is very important is that these programs are made in time, in the way they should be done. Because the Swiss, as we know, are very precise and will not tolerate any mistakes. Here again, since we believe this agreement is useful for Croatia, we believe that the Ministry of Regional Development will coordinate the development of programmes in these areas. We welcome him and we vote for him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23775	I thank my esteemed colleague Klisovic for this debate. The following came to the debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected counterpart, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23776	Good morning, everyone! Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, we have heard so far, so this financial mechanism of the Swiss contribution is actually a contribution to the EU enlargement process, and the instrument is the allocation of grants to new EU Member States based on the 2006 Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and the Swiss Federal Council. The mechanism is an expression of Switzerland's solidarity with Europe in taking over part of the burden in order to reduce economic and social inequalities in the EU area and in this respect supports the objectives of EU economic, social and territorial cohesion, that is to say, the EU's policy to ensure its comprehensive, coherent and balanced development by reducing structural inequality among European regions. We have also heard a non-refundable contribution from the Swiss financial mechanism of 40 million Swiss francs. It will be paid under the Swiss Croatian Co-operation Programme to reduce economic social inequalities within the enlarged EU. The mechanism is project-oriented, i.e. the funds are withdrawn and are irrevocably used for the implementation of projects that Croatia determines and supports, and Switzerland approves. The project funds are allocated by the end of May 2017 and are paid by mid-December 2024. Projects should focus on one or more of the following objectives. First promotion of economic development and improvement of working conditions. Second, improving social security. Third environmental protection. Fourth, improving public security and the fifth strengthening of civil society. The purpose of the projects as well as the entire Swiss Croatian cooperation programme is to contribute to reducing the economic and social differences between Croatia and the more developed EU member states as well as to reducing economic social differences within Croatia. Croatia will co-finance projects from the Swiss-Croatian Circular Cooperation Programme 15% of the total project value for which we need to provide a total of 55 million kuna in the state budget by 2024. The projects will be geographically focused on Croatia's low economic and social indicators based on principles of transparency, social inclusion, equal opportunities and rights regardless of age and gender. Then environmental protection, commitment of all involved participants, and subsidiarity and decentralisation. Each project is determined by an executive agency and a project partner of which is one from Switzerland and the other from the Croatian side. And finally let me count the concrete projects that are expected to be covered by this cooperation programme so far. The demining of protected forests and forest land and the social economic integration of mine victims, the programme of excellence in higher education, the modernisation of vocational education and training programmes, the promotion of the contribution of civil society to economic and social cohesion and, ultimately, I am glad to see that I come from the seventh electoral unit to the improvement of waste water disposal and purification, and water infrastructure throughout a series of municipalities of Gorski Kotar, I will count them: Delnice, Fužine, Mrkolj, Brod Moravica, Lokva, Skrad and Ravna Gora. The HDZ Club will, of course, support this agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23777	I thank my esteemed colleague, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, for this debate. The following came to light for the debate on behalf of the Living Wall Representatives Club, dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23778	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to say that this agreement with Switzerland is its intention to reduce economic inequalities in less developed countries with the aim of reducing the number of immigrants, i.e. people leaving these enlarged EU member states in Switzerland. However, the basic reason why Croatia and Switzerland have even this inequality is the banking system in Croatia that exists on very high interest rates. I must stress here that the Swiss National Bank lends business banks money with retail zero percent interest or 0.2% interest. Our Central Bank offers business banks money, unless I'm wrong about three and a half percent interest, and on the foreign market, that money is even cheaper than that, and that's why our domestic business banks are in debt to the CNB, and that's why we all have loans with the currency clause, unreal exchange rate, etc. This program doesn't deal with the cause of the problem. You have a situation that annually Croatia has millions of kunas of money, say Donir Vukovar, that the city of Vukovar spends them. However, all these money payments from the Vukovar people are fleeing, Vukovar is failing, which means we don't have a problem with donating a certain amount here. So as Croatia helps Vukovar as a state, so Switzerland will help us. However, all these donations, i.e. aid programmes, are paliative measures, they do not deal with the cause, and the cause is as I said a failed and missed monetary policy. By creating an illusion that Switzerland is helping us with this programme and that through this programme, we will reduce and some social differences are clouded by people's eyes, because social differences are growing every day of this policy. As a country, as a society, we fall from day to day. Our population is shrinking, and our total debt is growing. Even if the debt didn't grow hypothetically at all, as a result of the decline of the population he would go up. So this is one demographic spiral of death and instead of watching us solve our own problems, we are doing some kind of agreement with Switzerland, and we all know that this agreement will not solve or reduce the inequalities between Croatia and Switzerland, that we will continue to be in trouble, that we will continue to be in this difficult crisis. I'm interested in why our government, if it wants to help our citizens, doesn't look at the way Switzerland is arranged. Why doesn't he do it? Why doesn't he look at the policy of the Swiss National Bank? The only thing we've got from Switzerland all this time is Swiss francs, Swiss franc credit. Instead of becoming a small Swiss, we became the land of debtors in Swiss francs. And imagine a paradox, imagine if someone could lend swear to the Swiss, so everyone would tell him, man, you're not normal, and we let that happen. We let the Swiss franc serve us that and the banks made billions of kuna win at that robbery called the Swiss franc. And now as a Swiss government, she's going to help us with some program of God's help. What kind of help are you people talking about? Until Croatia becomes a sovereign state, until the exclusive currency of credit in Croatia is kuna, until the econt rate of the CNB falls to at least the European Central Bank, although I should be followed by the Swiss National Bank if we want to be like Switzerland, there is no growth and development, there is no ladies and gentlemen. And the damage we suffer from the Swiss franc from the missing CNB policy goes a thousand times the benefits we have of this agreement. But what's the problem? The problem is that we are discussing this agreement. So this agreement, which provides for some kind of aid to a few million euros to Croatia, we are discussing it today, and there is no debate on the billions of damage done to our society, ladies and gentlemen, about the monetary policy of the CNB 22 years of missing monetary policy. Is it normal that foreign currency loans are not discussed in a country where wages are in kunas? And what do I as an agent have a chance to do? I've only got a chance to point out that problem, which is literally crying out for a solution. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem of credit over-indebted citizens in Croatia is crying out for resolution. This is my chance, this law, this debate. What will happen is that my time will pass, 15 minutes, and all the problems we have as a society will remain unsolved. And look at the Swiss budget, look at our budget, look at this. Look at the way the Swiss are doing the budget, how they plan revenues and expenditures, and how they are planned by Minister Maric. These are important things, ladies and gentlemen. Croatia has a 35 billion kuna hole in the budget, so short of the state to serve its obligations, and we are told that the deficit is six billion. How will this law, how will this assistance from Switzerland solve this problem for us? It's literally palitative measures that, in their nature, this law won't solve anything. And what's going on? I'm talking about the problem that the hole in the budget is 35 billion, and that through double accounting it's covering up, that the expenditure on the basis of the loan is not shown as expenditure at all, but rather lead through some financing account. Is it normal, ladies and gentlemen, that on Saturday, just before midnight, we put such a budget on the agenda? Look again, ladies and gentlemen, ask yourselves, is it normal for Minister Maric to raise billions of loans without the consent of us sitting here in the assembly? The law, which was put on the agenda Saturday before midnight, says that Minister Maric, with the government's consent, could be in charge of up to 36 billion kuna without the parliament's consent. Do you guys know how many 36 billion? And why would I ask you that? Mr. Milosevic, who's going to pay that money back? How? From where? The Croatian state doesn't have any current expenditures, so for cold drive we don't have, and there's 27 billion on the charge, and we're going to settle it by taking new loans. And who's going to pay back when those loans? The new finance minister with new loans. But new loans and new creditors will demand certain conditions and concessions, blackmail, demand sell this, sell that. We do not need help from Croatia, we do not need help from Switzerland, we are enough not to destroy our own country. It would be enough for 400 or 500m euros to mean half a billion euros, instead of paying in the budget in Brussels to spend in our own country. That would be a measure that would help us. Are you aware, ladies and gentlemen, that Croatia gives more to the European Union than the European Union returns to us. Has anyone thought about that? What is our benefit from this policy? And now we're in this story with Switzerland and now as Switzerland helps us. So how does the European Union help us, how does America help us? So they give us, they spend old helicopters, and then we have to pay to serve them. How did Ukraine help us? Our government constantly stands by Ukraine and the European Union itself, the European Commission says Ukraine is the most corrupt country in Europe. The most corrupt country. The planes were flying, they were flying in one part of Ukraine, and how did they get back? And why is that? Because our politics and our government are systematically turning to serving and serving others, everyone but our own citizens. All other people's interests except for our own interests. Is that a policy that makes sense? Is that politics, ladies and gentlemen, that makes sense? And where that policy will take us. Young people who look up are aware that the banks have drawn billions of euros from our country. Only next year, 27 billion kuna will be paid to them. And what do we get back? We'll get, ladies and gentlemen, the misery and future of these people sitting upstairs is none and many of them will be sentenced to leaving this country. I used to speak to you in the Parliament, but eventually I realized that it doesn't make sense because my words don't fall on fertile soil. These young people who sit upstairs have more open hearts and understand my words than you who sit here and have heard me so many times. If you see that this policy that is being implemented in our country leads us to ruin, then why do you support its continuation? What for, ladies and gentlemen? Is that a guarantee of the future for these young people? Ladies and gentlemen, if we don't help ourselves, no one else will help us. And this agreement with Switzerland won't help us either. He won't change anything. Don't kid yourself. It will neither reduce social inequality nor stop people from getting out of the country. Ask these young people. Go upstairs, take a walk, talk to them. People at the gallery and ask them, "Do you believe that these measures that we in the House bring will change your life?" And they will all say unto you, They will not. And I'm telling you the same thing. I know it bothers you that I'm telling you. But I have to tell you this. And I'll tell you until something changes. When I was in eastern Sarajevo, To the Republic of Serbia, then a young man told me a story about the Orthodox pope who had the same sermon every Sunday and told the same things to the believers every Sunday. One day they came to him and said, "Well, Pope, why do you keep saying the same thing to us? Why do you say the same thing to us? And he said unto them, Have ye applied in your life that which I have spoken unto you in worship? And they said, "We didn't." - That's why I'm telling you again. For the same reason I will, like your voice of conscience, repeat the truth until the moment your hearts change and turn away from this suicidal policy for our society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23779	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ivan Pernar, for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Marin Škibola. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23780	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Thank you, Agent Pernar. I won't be as critical as Pernar. In principle, I will uphold this law. I believe that there is much to learn from Switzerland, but in one part I understand the criticism of Ivan Pernar. I think this law should include the experience of Switzerland's direct democracy. So we know that in Switzerland every three months there are approximately referendums, and with us when a referendum is organised, when 500 thousand signatures are collected, 700 thousand signatures, then there are problems. Elita does not allow the people's will to be heard and these are the essential problems Croatia has.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23781	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Marina Squiboli, for the replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23782	Yes, Mr. Scibola. Switzerland has a liberal referendum law. In Switzerland, unlike Croatia, the will of citizens means something. In Switzerland, issues that cause dilemmas in society are made for citizens to decide. Not in Croatia. In Switzerland, people can grow hemp for their own purposes. Imagine, Mr. Škibola, when Croatia would legalise this high-profit culture, when it would change the policy of the Croatian National Bank, so should we need the help of Switzerland? Do we need the help of Switzerland that people can decide their own fate instead of a small group of people, a few, as my colleague Bunjac said the other day, pushing 15 percent of the votes of 100 percent of the people into ruin. You wouldn't be able to get us to go to waste if we were to learn from Switzerland. But unfortunately, this law deals only with some direct financial injection that will be spent tomorrow and which will not be tomorrow. And it's all going to end up out there again because we're importing everything. The building materials are all imported. With us tourism generates imports and food and materials for building hotels or whatever. And that's one failed model. And I talk about it as much as I can, I'm trying to point that out, but nobody here listens to me except these people sitting upstairs at the gallery, my colleagues from the club. And that's why I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23783	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for his reply. The next one came from a respected counterpart, Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23784	Thank you very much. Your preparation for this law was probably 2, 3 minutes, you heard or read the title of Switzerland, some donation, an agreement, and that is enough for 15 minutes to give a lecture on Switzerland, about how to live there, etc. But if it's something good, it's a good agreement, it's one donation, 45 million francs, it's about 300 million kuna in 10 years to which Croatia needs to add its 15% to invest in an area that is underdeveloped and has some problems in its development where people have problems in their lives. Let's just say that Mrs. Secretary listed what areas these are. Well, let's say there's Gorski Kotar with all its municipalities, Delnice, Fužine, Ravna Gora, I don't know, Vrbovska, Ship Moravica and you're against it. It's legitimate but I don't understand why if it's about grants, that's why. Donations, someone wants to help us, I can't understand that Live Wall is against it, that you're against it and you're very much in favour of some people who don't have, who are poor, who are digging through containers as you say it often, etc. What is the point of such an attitude when we see that it is something that is very acceptable for this country, acceptable and there are not too many conditions or too many problems in which this could be arranged. in which way we can help these very environments. Why is it just to be against something important or to make an impression in the House that here it is, to talk 15 minutes about a whole other topic, completely missed. As you were saying now that we in the House are not talking about borrowing. So the first page of the budget has that part of funding, income and expenditure and B, that second part of the B account of financing. It's the first page when you turn the state budget. And when we adopt the state budget, we also adopted that document that was here at the beginning. It means we're discussing it. So don't lie to Croatian citizens. There's only that much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23785	I thank my esteemed colleague, Boric, for the replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23786	Mr. Boric, I'm not against us taking 45 million francs, more or less, I'll vote for it. So there's no one in my heart to say spite that I'd go against myself. But what I have a problem with is that this help will not solve those 45 million francs of our internal problem. You can't run a development policy from donations. The problem with our policy is that at the annual level, the banks get billions out of our country. Only PLIVA annual billion kuna draws profits, T-com billion draws profits, PBZ probably 800 million or how much already Zagrebačka banka plus all credits that go out, i.e. The money that goes to pay off the 27 billion loan. You add up on one side of the capital outflow, not a capital outflow, which I don't know someone sends to their cousin outside, but what big companies get out of the country and you add up the money that goes to the loans. And you will see that this is about the amount of at least 40 billion kuna a year. And instead of the state stopping that robbery, to stop this institutionalized and legalized crime that leads the whole country to a standstill instead of discussing it, this law is being shown to us as something that will solve problems. You mentioned in areas of special state concern. Ladies and gentlemen should tell the Croatian people, this government and this Parliament have written you off no matter where you live and you are doomed to disappear from these areas, it should be told them with or without Swiss help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23787	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for his reply. The next call came from a respected counterpart, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23788	Dear colleague Pernar, I've listened very carefully, so I'd like to tell you a few things. First correction, credits are not expenses, so only what you use for when you get credit will generate expenditure. Secondly, I'm kind of sorry to hear when you're this negative, so you're too young to be so negative and we hear it from you quite often. And third, you compared today and this time Croatia and Switzerland, in the past 100 years, the history of one and the other country has taken a significantly different direction, but I agree that we should not be able to get away with it. So I agree with you when you say it, which is that we need to solve our own problems. So no one else is going to solve our problems, we ourselves have to solve our problems and it's definitely moving right out of this assembly. However, in this solution to the problem, we do not need to get carried away so that we can impose game rules. Rules of the game exist. So here I was once, I thought it was once a year and a half ago that I was talking about our handball players or our basketball players or someone who's so successful in the world, not basketball players playing with their feet, not handball players playing with their feet, playing with their hands, so they follow the rules of the game. There are rules in every game in the world. Croatia is not China so that it can determine its own rules in part either when we talk about monetary or other policies. However, I am sure that no matter what, we can be very successful. I think we have potential for this, I think there is a desire in all Croatian society. And what we need at least for all of us, especially for these young people up there who are listening right now, and that's kind of negative, imperceptible, spreading a negative attitude that can't be done, can be done. Here we are to solve problems all together.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23789	I thank my esteemed colleague, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, for the replica. The answer to the line, dear colleague Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23790	Well, Mr. Milosevic, you were the minister, but I can see you didn't understand me. You said loans are not expenses, only when something is spent is expenditure. I'm not saying here that the cost is that the cost when the credit is taken is when the credit is returned. So when parents of these kids sitting upstairs have a loan war to pay, they have to count on their monthly expenses. So the company has to include it in expenditures, but in our country, our country in our budget is being spent on credit, so the loans we pay back don't count in expenditure. And that way, the 27 billion kuna that we have to repay is not the government's expenditure, and then we say the deficit is 8 or 6 billion. Is that normal for you, Mr. Milosevic? Is it normal for you that it is clear from the plane that the state will need at least 35 billion kuna to service its obligations, means deficit plus due loans and that you are saying that the deficit in the budget is 6 or 8 billion. What kind of math is that? What kind of bookkeeping, what kind of budget law is this, and ultimately what kind of budget is this? You know what kind of Mr. Milosevic? That's the budget you've been working on for all these years, that's an account without a waiter. This is Mr. Milosevic's account with no innkeepers that will eventually lead to the sale of the entire country and the disappearance of our people from these areas. And you will argue that this budget is good and that this policy is good. Okay, there are people who trust you, good job.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23791	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for his reply. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed State Secretary, Smonymka Đuric, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23792	Dear Vice President, esteemed MPs and MPs, it seems to me that I owe you only one brief clarification. Some of the speakers in front of me asked me if I was talking about other goals than what was originally proposed. So, what is proposed by the Framework Agreement are programmes aimed at promoting economic development, social security, environmental protection and strengthening civil society within which thematic areas are defined and which include security, stability and support for reforms, the environment and infrastructure, human and social development and specific distribution within which thematic areas are defined again by individual projects that I have numbered in one piece, and you have then detailed them in detail after me. So here's just so much from me. So the goals and thematic areas of the same thought were. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23793	I thank the Đuric State Secretary for this explanation as an additional one. A respectable colleague, Josko Klisovic, applied for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23794	I thank... Secretary of State Đuric and now it's all actually clear, now they've actually completely coincided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23795	Thank you. Since there are no more reports, I'm closing the hearing. We'll vote on this agenda point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23796	The following is the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Framework Agreement between the Swiss Federal Council and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the implementation of the Swiss-Croatian Cooperation Programme to reduce economic and social inequalities within the enlarged European Union, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 52. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Framework Agreement between the Swiss Federal Council and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the implementation of the Swiss-Croatian Cooperation Programme to reduce economic and social inequalities within the enlarged European Union. Please engage, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that we are unanimously with 108 votes in favour, that the Law on Confirmation of the Framework Agreement between the Swiss Federal Council and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the implementation of the Swiss-Croatian Co-operation Programme to reduce economic and social inequalities within the enlarged European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23797	We move to the following item of the agenda: - Final proposal of the Confirmation Act with the Convention on the Agreement on International Transport of Goods by the CMR Road, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.63. The proposed act shall be submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to you in boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall bring together the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Maritime Transport and Infrastructure. You also received reports from the resolution committees at the session. Is it possible that the proposaler's representative would like to give an additional explanation? Dear Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Mr Tomislav Mihotić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23798	... The proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of Protocols under the Convention on the Agreement on the International Transport of Goods by Road with the draft final proposal for the Law of the Republic of Croatia adopted conventions on the international transport of goods by road. [[Specially enabled.]] Here because of the problem with the calculation made in francs, which meant a gold franc due to a high price and a steady increase in the price of gold and the inability and inaccessibility of establishing the market value of gold at all times. In order to find a more acceptable accounting unit for carriers, as amended by the Protocol, which is proposed by this law, the subject convention is amended and supplemented. The adoption of the law in question, or the confirmation of the protocol, of the calculation of the amount of liability limits for potential damages, will be significantly more favourable for Croatian entrepreneurs, i.e. Transporters carrying out international freight transport rather than boredom, as they will no longer be accounted for in gold or gold francs, but in the value of SDR, that is, the Special Drewing Rights, in particular, the right to draw. In order for the Protocol to amend and supplement the Convention, and in particular the article which regulates that issue as more favourable to Croatian entrepreneurs, to be applied as soon as possible, and given the nature of the procedure for confirming international contracts by which the provisions of such contracts after they have been confirmed become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. It is proposed that this law be passed by emergency procedure. Otherwise, this coordination was done by all EU members so far except Croatia and Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23799	I would like to thank Mr. Mihotic, the Honorable Secretary of State for this explanation. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate right now on this agenda point. For the first debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Pero Ćosic, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23800	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the ministry. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol with the Convention on the International Transport of Goods by Road. Regulations governing freight transport in international road transport also contain the Convention on the Treaty on International Transport of Goods by road in Geneva back in 1956. This Convention is known as the CMR Convention, and signed by most European countries. The Republic of Croatia has also been party to the convention on the basis of notification of a surplus since 8 October 1991. And Article 23 of the Convention provides for compensation for total or partial loss and damage to goods resulting from the liability of the carrier, for that compensation to be charged according to the value of the goods and the place of takeover. So all those costs incurred by both customs and train and all other things, and the calculation of the liability limits of road carriers is calculated per kilogram of gross mass of damaged and lost goods, and the unit of reckoning for this is a gold franc of 0,323 grams of 24 carat gold, and the damage compensation shall not exceed 25 gold francs per kilogram of missing gross weight of goods. This Convention has been amended and supplemented by the Protocol with the Convention on the Agreement on International Transport of Goods by the CMR Road, drawn up in Geneva on 3 July 1978. So far, the protocol has been ratified, as most EU members have heard except Croatia and Bulgaria, and that protocol has been amended from 25 gold francs to 8.3 SDR per kilogram of the special right to draw a gross weight of damaged or lost goods. What kind of change is this? Let me explain for a moment. If we look at the 1956 Convention and if the price of one gram of gold on yesterday amounted to 263.50 kuna, the liability of the carrier per kilogram of the gross weight of the missing goods is not more than 2127.76 kuna. On the other hand, according to the SDR, the compensation for damages must not exceed SDR 8,33 of the special right of towing per kilogram of the missing gross weight of one SDR per CNB exchange rate on yesterday was 9.58 kuna, meaning that the liability of road carriers per kilogram of the missing gross weight according to the accounting unit is 79.80 kuna. So we have two criteria for the maximum amount of damage per kilogram of the missing gross weight of the goods. One is a gold franc. And if we take the usual contracts in transport, in the European transport of 24 tonnes and multiply it by the price of one kilogram of lost and damaged goods, we have the responsibility of the carrier in that variant of 51 million kuna, while in this second we have significantly less than two million kunas, a million and 915000 kuna. Therefore, we can conclude that the amount of the liability limits of road carriers under the SDR protocol is much more favourable for carriers because of the significantly lower price of gold compared to the value of the SDR. It is also more favourable for other reasons to significantly increase gold prices in recent years, as well as the inaccessibility and inability to determine the market value of gold at a certain point, and, unlike the SDR accounting unit whose value is daily determined by the International Monetary Fund and published on the national bank exchange lists. So gold is a stock market and there can also be an increase, there can be a variety of speculation, while SDR is the accounting currency established by the IMF on the map of 5 of the world's strongest economies and strongest currencies. Since the SDR CMER Protocol has not been ratified in Croatia so far, our carriers have been exposed to disproportionately higher amounts of liability limits than those of almost the entire scope of the SMR and this directly affected their competitiveness on the single market in Europe, as well as on the world market that are the signatories of this Protocol. And through means shelves, and in case of major damage sometimes it would happen to smaller entrepreneurs and to bankruptcy. By ratifying this protocol, the domestic road transport industry would have obtained an instrument that would allow it a secure legal framework to move to a new level of business, thus increasing the competitiveness of our road carriers and it is almost amazing that we have waited so far. So 38 years have passed since that ratification. 13 years before the succession and here are 35 years after the succession in Croatia, and 3 years ago, the Employers' Association sent an official letter to the Ministry of Transport, Maritime Affairs and Infrastructure and Minister Sinisha Hajdaš Doncic to urgently launch the ratification of this CMR SDR protocol. The ratification itself, as you can see, does not require any financial resources. In fact, it's a simple legal change here, which unfortunately has not entered the procedure until today and has not been changed. This slowness of the system is embarrassing, because here we are five years ago, we signed the Treaty of Accession with the EU, three and a half years ago in the EU, and every day we witness that we are harmonising our regulations with EU legislation, although we see that this is a purely sometimes technical change. And here is what you could read yesterday from the media that the EU has initiated 177 procedures for the Republic of Croatia because of the delay in harmonising these legal provisions. The adoption of this law will finally confirm a protocol which changes the amount of the liability limits of the carrier from the gold francs to the SDR in particular the right to draw. This is a small step in ensuring the safe conditions of business of carriers to create a healthy business and investment climate and I fully welcome this mode of work. This is what we must do daily, step by step, do everything in our power to help the recovery of the Croatian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23801	I thank my esteemed colleague, Peri Cosic, for this debate. Would the motionary's representative like to take another word? No, I don't. Thank you. I would like to thank the representatives of the proposings Mr Tomislav Mihotic and the Anti-Nvescan Head of the sector from the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23802	The following is the Final Proposal for the Law on the Confirmation of the Protocol with the Convention on the Agreement on International Transport of Goods by Road (CMR), an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 63. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal of the Act on the Confirmation of the Protocol with the Convention on the Agreement on International Transport of Goods by Road (CMR) Please take part, let us vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes were 106 votes for, 2 abstentions and no votes against the adopted Protocol Act under the Convention on the International Transport of Goods by Road (CMR).
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23803	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Final bill on amending the Police Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No 56 Proposers of the Act shall be the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The materials were delivered to you in boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, based on Article 197. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You also received reports at the session. Is it possible that the proposaler's representative would like to give an additional explanation? Here you go. Ms. Lidija Pelivan Stipetic, the state secretary of state, is respected. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23804	...President, ladies and gentlemen. Proposal for a Law amending the Police Act as provided for in Article 21(3) The law on police is prescribed for a police officer who, in accordance with a special regulation, ceases the state service for the purpose of obtaining early retirement rights, shall be entitled to a net amount of severance in respect of the average monthly net salary paid by an employee in legal persons in the Republic of Croatia established by the DZS and for the period of January-collateral period of the previous year increased six times. The provisions of Article 128 of the same law provide for that provision to enter into force on 1 January 2013. The Law amending the Police Act has delayed the application of that provision until 1 January 2015 and the Law amending and supplementing the Police Act until 1 January 2017. The proposed amendments to the Police Act, i.e. this Article, would delay the application of that provision until 1 January 2019. The MIP does not have the financial means to pay forward those severance payments following which an amendment to this article of the Police Act is proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23805	I thank the esteemed secretary of state, Lidija Pelivan Stipetic. On behalf of the SDP's representative for the debate, distinguished counterpart Ranko Ostjic appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23806	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, dear State Secretary. The 2011 Police Act provided for a rather surprising vaccination period of almost two years for entry into force on 1 January 2013. These provisions regulate the issue of redundancies to police officers who stop the state service in order to acquire the right to a disability pension, due to injury to work, occupational illness and I must say that the question of obtaining the right to an age pension and obtaining the right to early retirement, and the delay of application is explained by the difficult economic situation in which the Republic of Croatia was then in place. Also at the time when I was a minister, we delayed the fact that this provision was applied, given that the rationalisation of the costs in the state budget was not provided with the means to apply those provisions. However, I must stress that one of the main things that is presented and in the light of the current request for a delay is the fact that seven thousand to eight thousand police officers meet the conditions under special laws that they can retire and that this would lead to the devastion of the system or almost one third of the police officers could meet the conditions and in some way be stimulated by such a severance amounting to 32 000 and 500 kuna net and that would be the reason why they would leave the police system and retire. What is true, and this is that the present situation in which just over nine thousand kunas are the severance of police officers is really modest and small and I believe that then the urgency to prescribe much more severance was also to respect the reason why it is primarily about Croatian defenders, however, constantly delayed those provisions or the application of these provisions are now the third time in some way leading to the question of whether it is actually pointless and whether it is necessary to change the law. The fact is that going to retire and possibly jeopardizing regular police work in this situation depends primarily on whether or not the minister will give consent or not to retire, and I think it is the most important thing that I want to point out, or I think it is still necessary to comply with these laws, that the question at this point cca 20 million kuna is how much of the figure it would take for a regular natural discharge because I am convinced that the police officer is not going to retire because he would receive a stimulating severance of 32 thousand and 500 kuna, but it is that they should not know or wait and be in a situation where they are not discredited and that this severance is finally applied. We also believe that the Police Union, which presented a compromise solution, believes that it is this limitation of the number that then refers not to thousands of police officers, but to the ranking of the number of people who make up the natural outflow within the police force, which is the maximum of up to 500 police officers, that it should be taken as a basis for not finding the funds, but to ensure that a law that has long lost its purpose if it is not applied. I would also like to say that given that the arguments presented, especially unions that are more representative in the police, indicate that the circumstances have changed. The circumstances have changed so much that we still have GDP growth. It stands out for certain other areas of much more money and therefore we consider it appropriate that, just by refusing that continued delay with cca 20 million kuna, it could cover those needs that would be at an annual level for going to police officers with an appropriate pension in, I will now say the deserved portion, that they get a severance fee that really does not exceed some huge figure or could be compared to some of the funds that are enormous. I believe that, in this sense, just finding that solution, means either we should stick to this law in some way now the circumstances have changed in a positive sense, and I think it would be necessary to come up with the union's proposals. Equally use this restriction that the minister has and the final stories to be, that people no longer have to expect to delay from two years ago. In this regard, we have also submitted an amendment to the budget that we believe can then find a compromise solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23807	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Ranko Stojić, for this debate. Next to discuss on behalf of the MOST Club, a respected counterpart, Miroslav Simic, appeared.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23808	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. As we were able to hear, the Law on the Police is laid down in Articles 21, 2 and 3 of the Law of the Police Officer to cease the civil service for the purpose of obtaining the right to a disability pension because of an injury to work or a professional disease, to a police officer who, in accordance with the special regulation, terminates the state service for the purpose of obtaining an early retirement pension, the right to a net amount of compensation in the amount of the average monthly net salary paid by the legal staff in the Republic of Croatia established by the State Department of Statistics. This law came into force in 2011, and the envisaged entry into force of these articles was on 1 January 2013. Since then, application has already been delayed twice for financial reasons as we have just heard from fellow MPs, and in our opinion they have not changed more significantly, which could lead to these articles and in fact lead to a certain risk of functioning of the system through financial commitments, and on the other hand, by the number of persons who would be interested in retirement in this way. We think that this delay, with us agreeing with individual colleagues that we could have heard in the debates so far, public debates that were held earlier today, will go on for one year, not for two years, because perhaps the financial situation in 2017 can help us not to extend these provisions of the law further but to start to implement them. What we think within our club is that the Ministry of the Interior should first and foremost take care of the salaries of the employees who are working today, that there should be an emergency that already exists with the Secretary-General, that the salaries of these officials are raised, of course within these amounts provided for in the budget and in the context of a certain rationalisation of business. It was interesting to hear recently from the minister that on only one contract with one IT company recently, a contract worth 28 million kuna that amount after certain meetings, it was an annual contract, dropped to 8 million kuna. We think that such behaviour can provide funds to increase the salaries of officers working on the ground, and unfortunately, the clear implementation of these provisions of the law that we once again propose to postpone, we think it will have to wait for some happier times. We hope it will be since 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23809	I thank my esteemed colleague, Miroslav Simic, for the debate. The violation of the Rules of Procedure is a respected colleague, Ranko Ostojić. Here you go. An apology. We've got a few reported replicas. The first one was answered by a respected counterpart, Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23810	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Simic, since you are now in power and your police minister, do you know how our police are living, what is the state of the police, what are the salaries in the police, what are the severances in the police? Do you know that 7,000 pensioners actually need to get severances that they didn't get, that the state avoids paying. According to my knowledge, they should have a state, or law that we are now making, between 300 and 500, so they could agree with the unions to retire and to pay off their severances, when everyone in this Croatian state could get severances, not to say recently in the Woods, Railways, Electrics and all other state-owned companies, all of them received substantial severances from certain people. But I'd like to ask you the same question, do you know that there are 600 police officers from Slavonia in Dubrovnik County? But you know how these people live? With four thousand kunas. They signed a contract that should be respected anyway. They entered the police with the honour of defending and protecting the Croatian state. These same people can't find apartments in Dubrovnik and the surrounding area, sleep in Metkovic, sleep in cars, don't have adequate uniforms. Even here from my Slavonia I heard yesterday that my father paid off, paid off his son's contract and pulled him out of the police because the boy couldn't live downstairs. They even sleep in cars. Is that familiar to you, Mr. Ostojić, and you were the same minister? How are we going to raise Croatia's talent if the police are sleeping in our cars? How to protect young people, how to elevate police when we can throw money everywhere and these same people, and I know in Slavonia that I don't tell the borders and the rest of how to guard yourself in the mud for 12 hours, there aren't even enough cops in the Croatian state and we have a lot of unemployed. So again, the question goes down to people from Dalmatia, young people from Dalmatia won't be in the police because they don't have any salaries and we're moving out and we're sending them down to guard the Croatian borders, and that's the same thing in Istria, so I'm not saying down. So can we take care of those young people we moved out of Slavonia, even moved her down and I can't marry or borrow or make my future? So give me a little bit of lead on that bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23811	Dear counterpart Misic, you have transferred a minute from the deadline and just to tell you that there is no police minister, but there is a minister of the interior. Reply to the replica, distinguished counterpart Miroslav Simic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23812	Dear fellow Music, as well as you, I know the state in which they live and how Croatian police officers live, especially those who are far from home. On the other hand, of course, the current minister and the former minister are far more familiar with it. This is one condition Croatia has been struggling with for a long time, it is that there are certain needs of a system for a certain number of people, unfortunately in some parts fewer people appear in the police. To some, here is our Slavonia more and there is a redistribution, and I think it is the task of the system to look at as short a time as possible to get these people back to their homes, or as close as possible to their homes. As for the conditions in which police officers live and receive them, I think you as a parliamentary representative are already aware that Minister Orepic was raising salaries to the lowest officials in the past year. The truth in the first case was that the salaries were raised at the expense of their colleagues with higher professional supplies, but what we have announced is that the salaries will rise next year but not so that someone within the system will have to be reduced but through the reserves and moves that I mentioned among other things and just a little earlier as just one of the cases, looking for funds that will ultimately be focused on increasing the new, increasing coefficient of police officers.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23813	I thank my esteemed colleague for his reply to the replica. The next one came to a replica, a respected counterpart, Ranko Ostojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23814	Here's an esteemed colleague I agree with the first part of your exposure that was related to police officers' status, severances and in this second part concrete measures. This means from Schengen to secure funds for orderly stationers in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, move people from one stationary located in Gruda and thus provide for a better life for the officers who signed the contract, want to be border guards and unfortunately one that at high prices etc., with relatively low wages are not able to meet all their needs. I have a lot of understanding but I say such concrete moves can best help them. It is true that there is no interest in so much, meaning in Dalmatia or Istria for police officers 325 enters them into the system annually, mostly in the border police to meet their obligations to Schengen. As for the rest that this replica related to the previous one, and that is, here you see fellow Simic you have just these 28 million kunas and a fall to 8, that is the exact difference of 20 million kunas a good move if that is correct, you can provide complete severance for police officers. As for the promise to the police that they will have a higher salary then it is very important to stress that it is said to be 0.85% at this point but it is an important addition. Equalization with customs officers alone is not enough, it is important to resolve it at the level of the entire state, and that means very simply, if we even it out to coefficient 1 to all, then it will be very easy to agree on who the highest supplement belongs and I believe that the ministry will also defend that attitude that cops are the most vulnerable and thus provide the greatest supplement for them. As far as the changed circumstances are concerned, we still can't agree to the end of this, I believe that a one-year delay alone is not enough, that it is still necessary to respect the circumstances that now at this point in time when the increase is serious. Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23815	Thank you. Reply to the replica, representative Šimić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23816	Regarding the replication and mentioning of these 20 million kunas that I cited as a case, what I was about to say is that the Ministry and Minister's intensity is primarily to seek internal reserves to increase the salary of police officers and in which it will all be true that it is going towards this 0,85 coefficient that you mentioned. Of course, we'd all love it just as much as you did when you were a minister and in your office that our police officers could have a significantly higher salary. However, to increase these salaries will take a lot more contracts and a lot more cuts, not just this one that stood out as I said 28 million kuna. However, the move shows that in the Ministry of Interior, people who run it behave rationally, I hope they've acted that way before. And specifically here's the deal we can talk about later. I don't know why he was 28 until now. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23817	Thank you, Representative Simic. A representative of the proposal, Lidija Pelivan Stipetic, came forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23818	Thank you. I'd just like to clarify a few things further, and that's primarily Mr. Ostojić's representative. So it's not 21 million, it's 210 million kuna. Which is one significant difference after all. And on the assumption that police officers don't get severances, that's not true. For the time being, they're getting severances only because these severances go in accordance with a collective contract for civil servants and subsistences. I would also like to point out that it is not that police officers want to be deprived of their allowance, which is not possible, because they have not yet acquired that right, given that the article has not yet entered into force, but only its application is delayed. And the application is delayed in view of the lack of funds. So that's what matters. And as far as your allegations of hard-lived cops are concerned, that's right, that's unfortunately true. It is precisely because they have a hard time living the interior minister, as counterpart Simic has already stated, that he is trying to equalise their wages. One part has already been implemented so far, so the coefficient has been raised from 0.776 to 0.8, and in the future it strives to raise and pay not as much as this time pays other employees but from other funds, or from the budget of the Ministry of the Interior. Thus, improving material and legal status is certainly the goal of the interior minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23819	Replica was reported by MP Ranko Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23820	Dear Secretary of State, I appreciate that, but I just don't know if we get along okay? I'm talking about if the restriction meant 310 million kuna would be true if all 7 to 8 thousand police officers went into retirement. However, as the minister has the right to give or not the consent of the union that proposed that restriction, then with 20 million kuna, we would cover the natural outflow here if we only understood what I'm talking about. That would be a variant that would then be acceptable. If you respect this circumstance that the situation of 20 million kuna would be some measure in which this increased severance may actually be paid otherwise loses purpose. The very fact that prolonging this agony forever means eternal delay will actually lead to the fact that the situation will never change. And there's no need to correct me. And I said that police officers at this point have an severance payment of 3 average salaries means somewhere around $9.5 thousand is a variant in which it is calculated on this scale. That's true, but it should be 10 as planned and if it were respected it could then be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23821	The reply to the replica shall be the representative of the applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23822	Thank you. So this part of you that you said could be done in that natural outflow, we can't know that. The fact is that one-third of the police officers meet those conditions. It may happen that all of them have just applied for retirement, and then how will you decide on the basis of all these demands to whom to give this right or not? On what criteria will he assess? Well, that's a little too unserious to argue with, won't it, who will, and how? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23823	Thank you. Representative Ivica Misic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23824	Dear colleagues would just like to ask you, you'll probably answer that they don't, why don't the police who came from Slavonia ask that again? There's nothing for a separate life. Why didn't you provide them with some apartments? You know, Dubrovnik is a tourist resort, and in the season, there's an enormous amount of flats rising, and who's profiting here? Profits Metkovic, here's Božo you've got somewhere about 400 of them sleeping in Metkovic, as far as I've heard. So they travel from border to Metkovic, it's cheaper to sleep than in Dubrovnik and actually in Dubrovnik and around they can't find a place and normal and it's logical that they will come to Metkovic. But it's a shame that even some people sleep in the car. Then the other thing has very bad uniforms, so I'm asking a question when did you last invest to make that police at least represent us at the border and around with a decent uniform? Because these young people came to the Croatian police because it was an honor to them, hoping that at least as long as they could continue their lives normal and eventually get married. But here's how much we care about young people, and that's not gonna work. And here's the parents paying off and bringing them back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23825	The reply to the applicant's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23826	Regarding the apartments and uniforms you mention I agree with you it is indeed a problem but it is not a problem that appeared yesterday or 10 months ago. It's a problem that's been systematically there for a while now, right? So why hasn't it been solved before I really don't know, but the fact is that one of the objectives of this government is to improve the material and legal status of police officers and in this direction it will move as soon as conditions are established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23827	Thank you to the proposer's representative. Since I can't replicate from this place, all I can say is that everyone in the local community is always using all our potentials. The HNS Representatives' Club and, on their behalf, Milorad Batinic reported to participate in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23828	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues and the question arises whether these amendments are worth discussing at all? However, I had little debates with my colleagues. The topic is police, and then when we talk about the topic being police, then it's quite complex and requires our attention. What is not good, says this bill amending Article 128 of the Law, will contribute to the rationalisation of costs and necessary financial savings. Well, I think in the Croatian state there's too much savings in the police. And that's what asked me most to discuss it. I also understand the state budget, I understand the government, the finance minister that needs to seek savings. And I also understand why these, the 2011 article of the law, have been expanded to 2013. In 2013, Croatia's entry into the EU until 2015, then the 17th, etc. Schengen can do that. Let's understand that these are some objective circumstances. It wasn't known how many people were supposed to be in the police. One large number of active police officers today remember them from the 1990s, the 1990s and the 1990s and the other I had the honour of being a member of the reserve assembly of the MUP. Many remained, many did not return from the battlefield. So a little bit of that together, I'll feel free to say it irritates me. First, when you get to the border of a country you see? You see the uniform, the police officer. I believe you will agree with me that the uniforms of our police officers are not adequate, they are not appropriate. I believe we all remember, and I don't know if they're still wearing, I think they're, uh, those bright blue short-sleeve T-shirts. To me as a liberal uniform was never something I let's say I had. There was an opportunity, I even had some tendencies. But what's certainly not good and it's not a good first sign, so I think that our police need to pay more attention to this problem than those perhaps extracurricular things, so it seems not only to the police that he's dressed up and then to the order. Why is the police saving their lives? Do we know what the average salary of a police officer is in the Traffic Police Department, not to mention those police officers we don't see in the conduct of their duties acting in their duty in civilians, etc. etc. That's what I'm saying, it's a little bit of a distraction -- rationalization, saving. Here it is said, fellow Ostojić talks about 20 million kunas, a state secretary of 210 or 300, so let's see a little bit we had a budget, we had budget rebalance so we had a budget for next year, so I believe it was a goodwill primarily from the minister as an initiator whose responsibility it was to solve this problem or to suspect a solution in the long term. Because it's not good to put under the carpet problems that will be activated, open when then. He's had a full year of office and now it's the same, and now it's being expanded in two years from the seventeenth on the nineteenth. I'm asking the question, I'd like to hear from you State Secretary, whether the 19th problem will be solved, not only that problem, but a series of these problems where I've been trying to point out many of the colleagues who have been discussing here. If you're going to work this way and with this approach, I'm afraid it won't be anything, that we'll still have officers, police officers in inadequate uniforms, in inadequate clothes. No one's setting up now when these minuses were even down to a minus 7, 8 degrees. I saw them outside on the road. Is it winter? Purely based on the functionality of the work protection uniform. Are they protected in that part? Did their shoes leak in the slop, in the snow, in the rain, especially the border guards, there was talk about them. And that I also come from part of Croatia where the border police are, and I know very well, and as a forester we've been watching together, I know very well what they have to do and what conditions they have to perform. Gentlemen, the cops have too low wages, they've been paid definitely and this is certainly personal to me, I'm saying my uniform was never in the focus of the special. However, this certainly isn't good. This certainly isn't good. That's underestimation. There's still the same ones in '90, '91. the first to stand on the bumper of the Homeland of the Republic of Croatia, first. That's when the National Guard choirs started to form, and so on. So my appeal, okay. You have a majority in Parliament, it will pass. But give me something, make a concrete move so that the law should be changed not only in this way but fully sublegal acts, pay a little more attention to the police officers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23829	Thank you, Agent Batinić. Representative Ivan Lovrinović reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23830	Dear Mr. President, Agent Batinic. I've listened very carefully to your statements, and I really agree with you that the state of police is not well. A police officer especially borderline he is a picture of a country for everyone who enters that country and I see that you haven't exactly experienced that he, well dressed, is that it's not to say proud and clearly on his face that there are problems from low incomes to his equipment. And here I fully agree with you. And in the end, I'm going to ask you a question. One key question is why the situation is the way it is and why this budget does not make it more significant to raise the amount for the Ministry of the Interior. I proposed last time the budget debate here, soon it will be debated and concretely presented the source of ten billion kuna funds, and in my amendment I proposed to the police, the MUP, to increase revenue by half a billion kuna. That solves one part of the problem. It is particularly important here to highlight if we know that the amount of interest paid by Croatia on public debt, only interest, is 2.2 times higher than the budget of the MUP. So, gentlemen, are we clear here about what this is all about? Furthermore, when we talk about it, we see that there are no cops, only in Zagreb reportedly about a thousand people are of course not motivated to enter the police and see how they live, what are the problems. My particular question, why do you think this situation is, why doesn't the budget increase especially because of the threat from migrants, and we see that our limit is hollow as Swiss cheese? About it. The debate must be opened in the Assembly. [[Intruder Petrov: Thank you.]] What do you think about that?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23831	Reply to the replica, MP Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23832	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Lovrinović, I'm glad we agree. However, the answer to that question does not feel sufficiently informed, competent to say, but I can assume that, by one inaction, especially in the last two years of the term of office. In 2011, the law was required by law to enter into 2013, 2015 I can understand the Schengen beyond what this, which, I suppose, would be one of the reasons, would be acceptable to me as the main reasons. But I don't understand why last year, why has it not been more serious to solve this problem during this year? I certainly think it's necessary, but I find it difficult to see these fellow citizens specifically and ask why no one wants to join the police. So I'm saying I don't have too much experience in it and what little I have to say I was in reserve, it's bread with seven crusts. I believe the people who did this job, who do it, that they can speak far more about and I don't know any concrete and bad experience. But what I am certainly particularly concerned about is that our current minister cares more about the Constitutional Court, the judges of the Constitutional Court, is more politicised, he deals with politics than he cares about what he should worry about. That's already a problem for me, maybe, but what he's not doing as a minister is taking care of his own people.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23833	The next representative to report for the replica is Miroslav Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23834	Dear fellow Batinić, listening to your debate and assessment of the situation in Croatia to the police, or the conditions in which these people work, the salaries they have, the equipment they use to say that I agree with all of them. So I believe that the representatives of the ministry agree and that they would be happy if they had too much resources to advance such a condition. I'm surprised, however, by listening to your debates, one little thing, and the fact is that until a year and a half ago, you were part of the government that ran that ministry. So now as participants of this government, I don't know how much time we're raising our salaries to the lowest police officers and it's going to rise again next year. And now that you're saying that two years didn't do anything for those people, it's just not true. So on the one hand, I'm surprised that you're disgusted by this situation, and you've been involved in the last government, and on the other hand you say that nothing has happened, and we have a fact that the coefficient of the lowest officials has increased, and we have an announcement from the minister that even next year the coefficients will increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23835	Reply to the replica, MP Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23836	Thank you, Mr. President. A fellow Simic, so that resistor did not hold the HNS and to be honest if you listened carefully to the hearing of the uniform is not something we focus on as HNS. But I see members of the police officers as citizens of the Republic of Croatia as public officials in my business. Why didn't anything happen before? This will probably give you a colleague Ostojić a better explanation of why it is. But what bothers me anyway, all I care about is the explanation or the quote with the amount of money. We all know you and I know that old fairy tale, who wants to do something will find a way, who doesn't want a reason can invent a thousand, but I'm afraid in this case we're more involved in some other peripheral things, which isn't our activity, not us, but the current minister, rather than in this business. The job is not simple, the number of people, how, where, you see, you yourself said that police officers were always at the end and sometimes, people from some parts of the country were dealing with some other business weren't for the police. At that time, however, the police concerned and resolved the housing issue, hiring family members, and so on. I don't think it would be misunderstood, but that's the principle in Europe everywhere in all countries. Why isn't that the way to think about it? But still, wages are too low, wages are too low, and then we listen to some kind of underpaid cops, so like this, like that, left, right. I mean you can't know I understand, we can't work things out overnight, but let's start solving them. Let's start solving them not with 90, with 80 kuna, but still some better-quality solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23837	Thank you. Representative Davor Vlaovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23838	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. A fellow Batinic. In your debate you said that our officers do not have adequate equipment and that it is not nice to see at the border when entering the Republic of Croatia that it is a bad message for Croatia and for all tourists who should feel safe and have a favor from such a policeman. However, in order for a policeman to provide a quality service other than equipment, he must be motivated. So now I'm asking you, can our officers with these kind of salaries be motivated? Could they be motivated by those who had acquired the conditions to retire to receive severance as his colleague when he left before 2011, and were together on the first line of defense? Unfortunately, he can't and can't be motivated, and I agree with you that something has to be done, resolved and found for the police. There was a chance from tax reform that those who earn the most are taxed more so that they could be given to the police. No, it went the other way, it was given to them so they could go to Austria for skiing. You know, in Slavonia, it's rare for our young man to decide to go to the police because he could live on agriculture, on his craft or on entrepreneurship. Unfortunately, he can't do that. They went to the police and hoped I could live on it. We now see that those who have gone to Dubrovnik and some other tourist resorts cannot live on that salary and are pressured by the contract to stay down, to pay off their parents and get them out of the police instead. Or they're looking for connections and paying to return them to Slavonia in the same service. So here's a suggestion, if there's a way for doctors not to pay the full amount of specialization costs, let's give these cops a chance to live, or here we can abolish the Constitutional Court as Mr. Minister suggests, so let's give that 40, 50 million to the police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23839	Thank you. Reply to the replica, MP Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23840	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, colleague Vlaovic, I believe we will all agree here in the assembly with certain parts of all our discussions here. But it's about time and I'm glad to hear about it, but I'm afraid tomorrow and in a year, I'll see those same uniforms again, to apologize for being washed, washed away. When you come to the firehouse, when you come to the hunting assembly of a hunting society, any, the surprised beautiful people look. Straight, clean. Unfortunately, that can't be said for our police officers. Customs seem far more quality, more correct. So I think what's the problem? Let's at least go outside and fix the picture. Not so much for strangers coming, but for us, for our citizens. Let's talk about it. Is there not in the Republic of Croatia, of course, certain things can go unrefundable. I don't know where uniforms come from, who sews them. Well, the textile industry in Croatia used to be a feather. Unfortunately, conversion and privatisation have moved away, but if they're not good quality, so we do, I believe you'd find quality companies to do so. And if it's necessary, if it's expensive, it's not expensive. I don't have enough money to buy cheap stuff. Those words should be kept and I'm afraid, too, I believe that these amendments to the Public Procurement Act may improve things in a better direction, as well, as far as police equipment is concerned. But I repeat, if fire uniforms, I don't know where they're sewing, they look nice, customs, so what's the problem with the police? What's the problem with the police?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23841	Representative Tomislav Klaric reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23842	A colleague Batinić, listening to your discussion and the part relating to the salaries of police officers, is the fact that they are as small as the rest and the salaries of other officials and even of those employees in the Assembly. And we in Croatia are probably virtuosoes when something goes well so that it can either stop or don't worry about it. We remember Oltar's homeland that was supposed to be a symbol and one place to mark our homeland, so let's remember the cut-offs to the honor guard and the shift of the guard that she needed in some way and give the symbolism to this country, and then we come to what you've indicated and what's definitely a huge problem. When we look at these officers of the police, especially during the summer of the tourist season, in those blues as you yourself said to the washed shirts, tense, stretching and trousers that are more like a shipbuilding worker than a police officer, then the entrance of a stranger to our country and in a policeman's uniform, it's obvious that there are certain things to be changed. So, when I mention the Altar Homeland, when I mention the Honorary Guard, when I mention a police officer and all the other officials who in some way represent the symbolism of our country, they have to find the means to enable these people, if anything, at least that presentation in front of the public and in front of foreign citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23843	Reply to the replica Milorad Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23844	Thank you. I'll use my late grandfather's saying when he said that when you came to a man's yard, you'd go to a grant like you would tell me then you see what he looks like and you see what he's like as a boss. Then you get it all figured out. Unfortunately, I think we still need to pay a little more attention to some things in our country. And that's exactly what this is. I'm saying, I'm not into sneezing, I don't know some ceremonial things. If that's not necessary, we can wait for a better time, but this is daily. We're not talking about the formal uniforms of the police. I'm talking about the office, the day-to-day, the operating, the work. Guys, that's really sad. And then I say especially annoying when it comes to savings, how much is the budget, I say we had a debate, I don't believe there's any money to be found for it. That's just what money had to be found for. Secondly, I don't know how much the minister has an impact on that. I personally think it depends on him, but he unfortunately deals with other things that are not in his jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23845	Thanks for the answer. Representative Ranko Ostojic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23846	Thank you, Mr. President. counterpart Batinic, I believe that mentioning the word police are in some way causing room for discussion. However, today's topic is about pensions, so I hope that we will have a report on police affairs carried out by the Minister under the Police Act as an obligation very nearly on the agenda. I don't know why it's not in the agenda, so it'll probably be an opportunity to talk about everything else. I'd say, first of all, that the standard is determined by the police themselves. That's important. And secondly, I think it's important that everyone in this country, and I'm glad that you've run like all your colleagues stayed and you're responsible for us in the assembly as well as when you're in power, I believe that no one cares that they're not better equipped. Therefore, I would ask that we talk in this direction but while 74% of the funds are spent on wages, in a situation where modernization does not bring down the number of police officers, until we use reserve police as a possible and much cheaper option of use means resources then we will not be able to talk about a better state of police equipment. But I believe that this topic will certainly come into order, and I'm glad that in some way we support both current and former and all of those ministers that I'm sure you don't think they're interested in the fact that police officers have better conditions. And I say the restriction is every time it comes down to that there's a lot of them and that the share of possible equipment is such that you just don't have the means. That's what the problem is. And the other thing, and I just have to mention Borovo and Galeb, these are the answers for those who are currently equipping the Croatian police.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23847	Thank you. The Live Wall representative's club, the SNAGA, has applied for participation in the debate. Their representative Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23848	Thank you very much, very much, very much, very much. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, The position of police officers in the Republic of Croatia is not good. They do a very risky job, a very stressful job for very low wages and often we see that the conditions of their work are further worsening. Should we just remember last year's appeals, during the refugee crisis when police officers were taken overnight from their place of residence and were forced to work until 6:00 a day when they did not receive a single meal or even water even though it was hot? Whether we should recall or know that their rights have been reduced, even in this year, even though there has been some kind of increase and it was actually a redistribution. So she's raised her salary to police officers, and at the same time she's downsized those with high professional training and higher professional training. There has also been an end to the benefits of an internship and that is precisely for those services carrying the greatest burden such as PNUSKOK or the Drug Crime Prevention Department. The salary of beginners in the police today is as you probably all know well about 3650 kuna, and it is as far as civil servants are concerned among the lowest. This law that was to come into effect, the Law on the Police provided that compensations for police officers would increase to approximately 32,000 kuna from the current nine thousand kunas. The law was to apply from 1 January 2013 and is now 4 years old as it does not apply, so it is constantly delayed and now, following these amendments to the law on should not apply for another two years, it means a total of 6 years. With the possibility that, of course, there will be an analysis of the practice so far that this law will be postponed in 2019. We have no reason to doubt that this is already as far as we can see the third delay. Why is this law being delayed? We have reason to believe that in Croatia right now, about 7,000 police officers have conditions for retirement and that their retirement would cause too much pressure on the budget. Such an argument is partly in the domain of speculation because no one knows whether exactly all 7 thousand will go into effect as soon as the law goes into effect and, in particular, it is important to respect the police union's argument that 300 to 400 police officers are going to retire annually and that they are willing to restrict in agreement with their members, limit the number of people who would retire. So they are actually willing to co-operate to avoid mass retirement, however, according to their claims not only that their proposals are not respected but they are not invited to a meeting at all, which means there is no negotiations between the police union and the government on this issue. Among other things, the Police Union has offered some other transitional solutions to finally resolve this issue and it is also important to warn that among those people who have acquired the conditions for pensions there are a lot of Croatian defenders, there are a lot of people who have been at the most important battlefields during the Homeland War and now, in essence with this delay of the law, maybe part of the law is cut off and one good part of them, actually one major part of them in their rights. Another of the arguments why this law should enter into force is the government's regulation that for every two fired officers, a new employee is currently employed, which then would mean that in practice some large cost per state budget should not be, and all the total projections of some burdens are actually reduced to around 20 million kuna. So is this really the 20 million kuna problem, and we see that this year the items in the budget are increasing both who needs and who doesn't need it. So people have to wait six years for those rights guaranteed by law to come true. So if this law is delayed for two more years for a total of six years, then the question is, why is it that the law is passed in the first place? Then why do any contracts that the government doesn't know sign with the unions, here's the latest case yesterday was re-broken the pay raise contract for civil servants, after 10 years there's still no solution. Are we, then, if we ourselves do not respect our own laws and signatures, can we consider ourselves a rule of law? Here we had a guest premiere in Germany yesterday, and what did he say there? He said there we will strengthen the institutions of the state, trust in the states and among other things you would not believe in in order to stop the protesting parties. He probably meant the Living Wall and some others. Well, now he's got a chance, and now he's got a very good chance of building trust in the institutions. Let him pass a law that has been in force for four years. We think that indeed the government must be first, setting an example for certain obligations and laws to be implemented. If she won't do what we do in our country, what are we making? Chaos. And do you feel as do most citizens that the police are just one of the pillars of organized society? And what my colleague Batinić says about cops having washed uniforms, they look like they're looking at them worse than some kind of hunter's unit, so we should be kind of encouraged to think about what kind of picture we're sending to the public, what kind of picture are we sending to the world? Therefore, if the law is signed, if it has been delayed for 4 years, for 4 years too long, let's say it's honest, 4 embarrassing years, and now it's two more years, and then I don't think any MP should support such a further delay, but we think that this law should finally start to apply. So as far as the Living Wall is concerned, we will support the implementation of the Law on Police to restore or strengthen trust in institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23849	Thank you, counsel Bunjc. Replication was first reported by a representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23850	Your Honor, my colleague Bunjac, we all agree here that the conditions in which our officers work are not good. We all agree that the uniforms they have are not adequate. We all agree that the salaries that our officers have are small and that no one is slow and I think that the man who is the most constantly to change something because the minister of this portfolio is Minister Vlaho Orepic. That's why it's like you said and made this one so that those lowest police officers get higher odds and higher wages because there's like he says too many bosses, it's too big a head and thin are legs. He wants to send police officers to the field, give them bigger wages, better equip them. But the budget is what it is. And the truth is this law hasn't been going on for a long time because it just doesn't have enough money. I am convinced that Minister Orepic would be happy if Minister Maric and the prime minister had given him more money for his portfolio. It's simply the situation it is, but the fact is that things are moving forward, that they're trying to change that the minister is also announcing a major police reform, that he's trying to raise salaries to cops, better equip them, and I'm sure that's what's going to happen next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23851	Thank you. The answer to the replica is the representative of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23852	Thank you, comrade Grmoy. Of course you want, you have wishes, everyone has wishes of course but here we are talking about the problem of the rule of law. So we're talking about the law being passed, they have some other laws that have been passed as well, and they're constantly delaying their execution. Would it not then be fairer if we simply abolished that law and restored the state to what was before the law and the matter was resolved? So what kind of message do we send to the citizens? Now can a citizen I don't know have to pay for electricity or the water doesn't have to say it, you know, now I don't have to come in six months, so I'm gonna pay you for it? It can't, so there are obligations, there are signatures, there's no negotiations about it you know about yourself. And therefore, here I repeat, the cops waited four years, they were really patient. We haven't seen that they've been doing some problems to society or really and responsibly doing their job, and you probably know a lot of cops like me, and you know that they're really self-sacrifice. And on that side, I don't see any reason why we as a state wouldn't finally change their relationship to them in general, so to the rule of law, and you've announced it among other things that you're going to change things. Here's your chance. Here's Prime Minister Plenkovic said yesterday that we will strengthen trust in institutions. Here's his test, let him pass it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23853	Thank you, counsel Bunjc. Representative Ranko Ostojic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23854	Comrade Bunjac, I would only like to cite this part of the migrant crisis before. You've got the wrong information. Of course it's not true that the cops were without a hot meal, etc. I will thank them and thank them for their enthusiasm that they showed in the part where you couldn't help but invite them to help, and then the police officers showed through the five months maximum. But I claim that the ministry has made the most of it and ensured that according to the collective agreement and to everything that can be done, it is precisely for those who were working most at that moment. As far as other matters are concerned, I think it's important not to give a flat rate. It's not true that the benefits of an internship have been lifted. He's partially shut down. It means to those who can't belong, they're people in the office, and to leave it to all those who are the most difficult jobs. Two for one is also incorrect, because this does not apply to police officers in terms of employment, but in the second part of the jobs that are at the Ministry of the Interior, and the police receive the basis of a public tender of 325 approximately, it can be changed by people who go to their schooling at the police academy, then sign a contract and stay in the police department most often for the completion of the two is for one. I also have to say I will repeat this solution, and that is, as long as it is 74% for wages, the rest for all other expenses of the ministry will not be lucky for any minister was Vlaho Orepic, Ostojic, Karamarko or anyone else. This topic should be an absolute topic here, but I am convinced that applying exactly the model in which 7400 people we can hire in the reserve police would be a solution to at least one part of the resources that could help us. Their salary is only 90% of the average salary, they can be hired for 3 months, they work in the field they're from. They're receiving 10% while they're waiting for that job. This could therefore bridge this part of the possible lack of police officers during the summer season or in a situation to help at the border. That's something to think about, because in my opinion, the moment there's more resources, then there'll be much more favourable conditions for the police themselves. And I'd like you to do it in a way. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23855	Representative Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23856	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, so you say it wasn't abolished, it was partially abolished. All right, here's my apology. It's partially off. There's two months of unfettered work hours left. Now it's probably going to be abolished in some future period. You also claim that police officers don't have enough. However, the figures differ. Croatia has about 26,000 police officers and a half of the number of police officers compared to the population in percentage Croatia is the fifth in Europe. So we're the fifth in Europe. Which we should now increase even further to be the first in Europe. It is true that the Croatian border is too long and that the need for more police officers is present. But forgive some Norway that has the same very long border, the same population as Croatia has 7,000 police officers. And I'd almost bet they're as effective if they're not as efficient as ours. And why is that? Because they have good wages, good training and all the logistics. That's what this is about. And I understand that you now want a time when you were the minister to show in good light, but it wasn't the problem for the officers who were expecting refugees to be the only problem at the time of your term, there were all kinds of problems, so now I don't mention mobbing over cops. There were police officers who pointed out some irregularities, so they were locked up in psychiatric facilities, and they were pecking pills and injections. There were police suicides while you were at a ball in Vienna and some things weren't as pink as you want to show them. It's unequivocal, and we need to talk about it, but some other time, I hope.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23857	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23858	Mr. President, the violation of Rule 232 of the Rules of Procedure is that the subject must be held by a speaking agent. And in that sense, I'd just like an explanation, which means that it's unnecessary to provide incorrect data, specifically 8000.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23859	Agent Pernar, I'd like you to refrain. 'Cause if someone's going to interpret the Rules of Procedure, then it's going to be interpreted by the one who presides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23860	So the incorrect data supply, specifically 8400 police officers, is in Norway. And as for the information that I said there was a shortage of police officers in Croatia, that's not true. I didn't say anything like that at any point.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23861	Thank you. Agent Pernar, you've picked up a plate with a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23862	Well, I just wanted to say articles 236 said that someone who broke the Rules of Procedure should be interrupted. Mr. Ranko Ostojić raised a plate for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and then he began to replicate. So please just hold on. He's a hypocrite. He's accusing his colleague, Bunjec, of hurting the Rules of Procedure, and he's doing it himself. Thank you. [[Thank you very much. You explained.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23863	Mr. Pernar, you've explained to Agent Ostojić, I've allowed him to express himself, although perhaps he shouldn't be replicating through the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I personally allowed for the reason that Mr. Bunjac did not stick to the subject and I went to let go and the possibility of more freedom of speech inside to say and of course that, in accordance with that freedom, he would give freedom to another representative. But I am glad that Agent Ostojić warned, and we will now very strictly stick to the topic that is being explained and discussed in the Parliament. I believe since here you are now in line, I am sorry that you failed to agree within the club, so obviously you need to replicate while your representative is exhibiting. Here's Agent Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23864	Thank you, sir. But my replica is not a sign of not getting along, but of getting along with my colleague Branimir Bunjc's exposure. He rightly concluded that the government's policy does not lead to stronger trust in this case of police officers in institutions. In fact, the law has been passed long ago, and its application is continuously delayed by violating the rights of police officers or because these officers have their rights on paper alone. That's what I was saying about us here in the Parliament being filled with paper and paper is all great and everything is great, but in practice when certain provisions of the law go to harm the citizens then their application is delayed. That is, when they go to harm citizens, then their application is current, and when it goes to the benefit of citizens as in the case of this provision for these pensions or severances, then its application is delayed. And that's what my colleague Bunjac rightly concluded. We citizens, our obligations can't be delayed, we can't tell the IRS, look, I've got bad business results now, so please wait two years when I'm gonna have money, and then I'll meet my obligations. So if citizens can't do something, then why does the state do the same thing, and it's strict with the citizens, and it expects them to be like the Swiss clock, and it can delay what happens in two years. And what happens to people in those two years, God knows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23865	The answer to the replica is the representative of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23866	Thank you, Chairman. Comrade Pernar, therefore you are talking about this particular problem that we should build trust in the institutions according to the Prime Minister's message, but we see that there is no solution in the institutions. And we saw that too here they were protesting, I don't know the pyrotechnics, they were protesting people about education last year, they were protesting students about scholarships, now they're probably going to protest teachers after this collapse, after ten years, please ten years of not applying the signed contract, and what are we going to have in the end now? Are we going to have a police protest? So what kind of message does the state send to the world and the government into a world that's being protested by cops? Well, I think that kind of scene exists only in Colombia and I don't know any Latin American dictatorships that cops are actually looking for protection for their rights on the street. I think we're playing dangerously with some things we shouldn't. And on the other hand, in this budget, we're increasing our funds by six billion kunas by hand and hat, I'm repeating who needs it and who doesn't need it. I don't think simply for these 20 million kunas should risk finding these funds in the budget, making amendments, and I think there's room and thus at least give a little bit of a hand to police officers who have too little pay, who don't have good working conditions to show at least some gesture of goodwill. But I repeat, first of all, that it is finally beginning to establish a legal state in its full scope. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23867	Thank you, counsel Bunjc. Ivica Misic reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23868	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Comrade Bunjac, you just said there are seven thousand officers in Norway and they're all here. I ask the question, how many officers do we have in the police force? Does three people sit down and one of them works? I don't know. How many operatives do we have in the field? Probably much less than what it should be because we live in the Balkans is a whole other system. But there's always talk of no money. Gentlemen, there is money in the Croatian state with money. Here's my colleague Lovrinovic's amendment and we've made public procurement to up to 200 thousand kunas ten billion can be saved, in fact from ten billion to 200 thousand, and two billion can be saved, of course they didn't accept it. That could separate and give to the police. We can give the banks that have been interesting us for 25 years on large interest rates, and today it's going to go to that part of the world, and it's being watched as being done to the banks. When the police are set up here, my mayor of Vinkovci, in our Vinkovci, I don't know if these ministers were in the police department where the traffic police are operating in Vinkovci, it's a stable and something worse. This should be seen in what conditions these officers of ours in Vinkovci do, and we have state buildings of five thousand squares standing in the middle of the Vinkovci center, no one can remember to fence and make these people conditions for a normal life. The fact that in Vinkovci, here is the mayor, I don't know who determines whether the ministry, whether the city, but embarrassing for the state of Croatia to have a stranger come to that police administration it's a building maybe 400 years old where you have to bend, wooden chairs, miserable, sad when you get inside, you think my God is this in Croatia, whether this is in Nicaragua or somewhere else where the biggest poverty is. Money's just supposed to be distributed fairly in this country and... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23869	Thank you. Representative Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23870	Thank you very much. My colleague Misic, so you're absolutely right. So Croatia also has real money according to the proposals made by Professor Lovrinović and according to the proposals made by Professor Aleksic and according to the proposal made by counterpart Lackovic on the mining rent. There's also the possibility of, say, introducing a vignette. I don't understand how Slovenians have a billion kunas more than we earn on highways, and half a mile less highways. I'm sure, for example. That the DORH would only bring one tax evasion officer to justice, only one, and I didn't hear that he ever brought one in, that would be enough money. Not just for severances, but enough money to raise the salary of cops.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23871	Mr. Bunjac, I'd like you to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23872	Well, I stick to the subject, I talk about the means, I respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23873	Don't stick to Branimir Bunjac theme! I warn you if you continue, I'll just share the warning. Since I said so, your colleague warned me to focus on the subject, so please focus.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23874	He spoke about funds for police representative Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23875	Branimir Bunjac, that's right. Stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23876	I'm talking about the funds being made. And among other things, who could do that, it could just do special departments of police, to track down off-shore accounts. Here and recently last year, secret accounts of Croatian citizens were discovered in Panama. Until today, we haven't found out what they're called and what they're about. And what we're dealing with, we're saving up at the police station. We're saving on teachers. We're saving on catering and right where we don't need to save all the time, and where we don't need to save. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23877	Thank you. Representative Ana-Marie Petin reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23878	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. So, dear colleague Bunjac, I agree with you when you say that the rule of law has to work and that what is signed should be respected as well as that the salaries of police officers are very low, that their responsibility is very large and that they are increasingly less motivated to do their job in quality because their lives are daily at risk, and for this they are not adequately paid. But what I did to you is that while you were speaking from the pay phone, in the meantime the amendment to the HDZ Club of Representatives and the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, where they now suggest that, therefore, delay this payment of the compensation of our officers until 1 January 2018, so I wanted to tell you, or ask you, how do you comment on this, given that after 45 minutes of debate, suddenly the funds were found to still be respected for a year what was signed to our police officers, and we know that the first proposal of the government in which the Minister of Interior who comes from the ranks of MOST was to postpone this proposal, this kind of payment is delayed until 1 January 2019. So, here's what happens if we discuss maybe another 45 minutes, maybe they'll find more early funding, and this starts from January 1, 2017.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23879	Thank you, Agent Petin. Representative Bunjac responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23880	Thank you, colleague Petin. Well, here's what I don't understand. We have a agenda yesterday. He changes the same thing every half hour, so point two, so I don't really know anymore. They said the work of the Parliament would be improved, I really don't know what the agenda is anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23881	I'm asking you to stick to the subject. I'm telling you at this point A warning, just keep going. [[I'm replicating what she was saying.]] You have heard the replica, answer the replica if you want to respond, if you do not ask for a reply to the replica and talk about something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23882	So, you two make your own arrangements. Whether this law applies from 1.1.2019 or from 1.1.2018 or not. You bring legal proposals here, and then you're ashamed of yourself. Be ashamed of your own legal proposals. You two make a deal in the ruling coalition, whatever you want. Well, you share all the warnings you want, but that's your means because you have no argument. You pass one law and then you change it during the debate six times. What a way! I don't know because you have some professional services, because you have some I don't know contacts with unions, with associations? The easiest thing to say is, Mr. Bunjac, stick to the agenda, the warning, I take your word for it. There. This is going to be almost like North Korea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23883	Mr. Bunjac, for this I take away your word for the reason that you have insulted the institution so that by the end of this point you have no right to speak further and you have no right to reply to the replica. Representative Miroslav Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23884	Dear counterpart Bunjac, you, like all exhibitors, have actually expressed some concern about the situation in the Croatian police or under the conditions in which she works, and we all agree that we would like these Croatian police officers to work in better conditions. However, what I find interesting in your debate. You're reading some information that has nothing to do with the truth, it's not true at all, and then when you do, you're making all these data and you're making all kinds of wrong conclusions again. Like what? When you were talking about an underprivileged job internship here you were corrected you weren't right. When you were talking about model two for one corrected you weren't right. When you talk about the cost of 21 million kuna, you didn't listen to the secretary of state here who said it was a cost of 210 million kuna. When you talk about the number of cops you're talking about 25, 26 grand, you have no idea there are 12 grand. So it would be good if you prepared yourself especially when you're speaking here on behalf of the club to provide accurate information. The fact is that Croatian police officers have been neglected for many years. Here we all agree on this, but it is also the fact that Minister Vlaho Orepic is the first minister after I think for almost 10 years who has raised salaries to police officers with medium professional training. It is the minister who announced next year an increase in coefficients for other police officers, and that change will not be done so that colleagues with senior staff can feel it on their salary. When it comes to cop uniforms in these moments and at this time, police boots are being purchased, police jackets. These are all the things this minister and this ministry do. You don't know that, and it's okay that you don't know, and it's okay for me to tell you. But then don't use those things that you don't know that I was talking about at the beginning of this exposure as arguments for some of your views that don't stand at all. And that's not your first time.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23885	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed Ivan Sincic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23886	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here is counterpart Bunjac, in your discussion you spoke about the work of the institutions and the statement by the prime minister from Germany that he would strengthen confidence in the institutions in order to curb the protest parties. Here's a little bit of an idea over that statement and it's actually at least scandalous. Imagine that, now because he is called, because the party or community is threatened now needs to strengthen institutions because of some resistance, protest, apparitions, not because it is normal in itself, by the very nature of the development of democracy. Well, I'm going to look back at one of the institutions, which is the State's Attorney's Office, for the last 15 years, the sovereign government of Bajic and Cvitan, although there's no significant difference there, each other's deputy, a colleague. It's like that in Russia, the Medvedev president, Putin's prime minister, then putin's prime minister, Medvedev's president again and again. He would say to our people "Sit down Kurt to ride Murt" or vice versa. Therefore, Mr Plenkovic should be careful what he says at the very least because if institutions start doing their job in the Republic of Croatia, if they start pulling out any criminal charges, whistles,... The group that I've counted in one of my previous discussions will be the most affected by him and his party, I'm afraid, we're witnessing it now that the attorney's office is what it is and what it would be if the institutions started to work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23887	Thank you very much. That's what we used up the replicas. And we're going to the next club and that's the HDZ club on behalf of which the esteemed Ivan Anusic will speak. Here you go. ... I would just announce that you know in advance that after the end of this point, when all are ordered of course that have applied continue to work and the next point will be the report on the work of the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War for 2015. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here's your colleague, Anusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23888	Thank you, esteemed chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The proposed Law amending the Police Act with a final proposal for a law is amended as an article, Article 128 relating to the postponement of entry into force from 1 January 2017 to 1 January 2019. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on police is laid down by the law of a police officer whose service ceases to be a public service for the purpose of obtaining the right to a disability pension due to injury to work or occupational illness. A police officer who, in accordance with a special regulation, is suspended by the State Service for the purpose of obtaining the right to retirement and a police officer who, in accordance with a special regulation, terminates the State Service for the purpose of obtaining the right to temporary retirement. Legal net severance amount of the average monthly net salary paid per legal employee in the Republic of Croatia established by the State Statistics Office. However, due to the difficult economic situation in which the Republic of Croatia is located and due to the fact that there is no guarantee in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, the provision mentioned above has been amended, with a postponement of the application from 2017 to 1 January 2019 for the purpose of rationalisation and financial savings because no financial resources have been provided. What is important is to highlight the proposal that came from the police union, which came to all clubs in the Croatian Parliament and the same proposal was sent to the cabinet of ministers where a transitional solution is proposed before the full application of Article 128. After talks with the trade unions and after the alignment today morning and yesterday we proposed and concluded a proposal and a certain conclusion. It is therefore possible, under 1, to establish the average number of retirement leaves in the last few years and to ensure that so many persons are severances under the conditions laid down in Article 21. The law on police and determine the period during which police officers would apply for retirement, with the possibility of exercising the right to severance under that article. It is known that 7.5 thousand at this time police officers can even exercise the right to retire. And for that reason, it was a problem if all 7.5 thousand or more of them were to happen, a smaller number of 7.5 thousand but a larger number had requested retirement, in this way the financial structure envisaged for that year and for their retirement and for their severances would be really burdened. And after that, the basis of which this proposal is analyzed would then be based on objective criteria, working years, years of retirement training, and others to determine which police officers would be entitled to pay in accordance with the disputed Article 21 at the time of their retirement. The law of the police. Other police officers may exercise the right to retire but without exercising the right to severance under Article 21. The law on the police is only based on a collective contract or they could decide and wait until the basis of objective criteria could give them the right to severance. Following the above mentioned HDZ Club and the MOST Club, respecting the reason and the police proposal as justified and justified, it is proposed to apply the application of the article for 2019 on 1 January 2018. Your amendment was divided into benches about half an hour ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23889	We have one replica of the esteemed mistress Maximchuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23890	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Anusic, here today we all agreed in the debate on what conditions our Croatian police officers are working on. These are very difficult conditions. So we are all aware, especially from Slavonia, that many of our young people are going to work in Dubrovnik or Dubrovnik County, and we are aware that their incomes cannot satisfy the meaning of those minimum needs. So they often reach out to some extra jobs or their parents have to send them the rest of the money so they can survive downstairs. We're also all aware here especially of the me coming from Brod-Posavina County that our officers have 175 kilometers of BIA border, have 112 kilometers on A3 highway or A5 13 kilometers, to do a very difficult and responsible job. I am also pleased with this amendment that has come here, I will not criticise it, I will commend it, and I will be happy to see that by restoring the economy or by increasing GDP, Croatian police officers will be the first to start using the benefits of it, or to start using everything that belongs to them by law because they are the first to defend our country. But I'm going to look around, we're all talking about uniforms, I'm going to look back at civilians who are also wearing our employees who work in civilians. They get some sort of fee and we encourage and I agree that we should encourage domestic production but when they come to that store where I'm not supposed to name it now, where they should take that civilian very often they're too expensive or there's no appropriate sizes and numbers, so they don't even take advantage of it, or ask the union to extend it until they get extra sizes to be able to take advantage of it. So here's some little things where we don't even need big financial resources to help us, here's just some kind of deal or something that you guys in the MUP can do, or whoever makes those contracts. And here I will be very happy to see the application of this as soon as possible because, as I said, Croatian police officers are the first to stand in the defense of the homeland and should be the first to use it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23891	Thank you. The honourable representative Ivan Anusic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23892	Dear fellow Members, of course, I agree with you and I would just like to point out that this is one of the problems that is affecting our police and is hampering all of Croatia, all of those services that care about our security. So I can say that in a similar situation, it is not only the police, but also professional fire departments, but also the Croatian army. What's more important to say is that when you bring in a system like this, this level as it's brought in, it's not brought in overnight and it's not brought in because someone's been running an executive hair in the Republic for 6 or 7 months, but it's a system that lasts maybe 10 or 15 years and maybe even more years. When, according to my own free judgment, and in my end and in my experience, I was also a member of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence since 2000, the full separation of rights has taken place in such a way that not only material rights but also all of those rights stemming from the employment relationship and members of the Croatian Army and members of the Ministry of Interior as well as members of the fire departments. So all these pillars of security of Croatia have been at risk for a long time and they need to be systematically taken care of in one proper way and here I hope that this is one of the first steps that will be so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23893	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Ranko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23894	Mr. Anusic, speaking on behalf of the club of representatives, you have actually made the same arguments as I have on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club. And that is to accept actually the Police Union's proposals as a compromise solution, which is to find a limit or a limit and discretionary option through the Minister of the Interior, his consent to who can retire and not. However, that is not an explanation for this amendment you have given. And I suggest we actually accept this variant that would be, and that is, if you truly support the union's views, then that means that there's no change in the law at all. And that would actually be the best solution. In the budget we provide a circus of 20 million kunas, until the depletion of the figure that would provide a natural drain of 300 to 500 circus police officers, it actually ends the situation with a decent severance of 39 500 kuna and that would be the end. But then there is no need to postpone it by one year, but by accepting the amendments to the budget already proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23895	Thank you. The honourable representative, Anusic, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23896	Dear colleague Ostojić, I agree in this part the first one you've said. I think that's the best solution at this point, but the law as such will be applied, of course, with dialogue and communication with the unions and with the police system, of course, to be there, to control the number of retirements and the way police officers are going to retire. Because because of this very delay for so many years probably a number of police officers have calculated he didn't want to retire because he was waiting to start applying this law. What is important to say is the dialogue that must exist between us, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Minister of Interior and the Police as police and trade unions in these years must be realized. And we are only at this moment, not only but at this moment we have reduced that deadline, so it is not delayed for 2 years but it is delayed for a year for the reason that the budget is very close, which is the budget practically before adoption and that the government has taken responsibility for the Republic of Croatia in 10 months this year. And there was very little time for projections, for providing these funds because at this point we thought that things that concern other priorities were more important so that we found, in a way common language both with unions and with the police union and with the police union and with the police, hopefully this is only a year's delay, but then it will go into retirement criteria as stated in this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23897	Thank you very much. We are now moving on to an individual debate and the first to appear is the distinguished representative Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23898	Respect to the Honorable Chairman. I'd like to say i.e. Just read the message of an officer he sent me in the first place. He says, "I'm a Slav from a place near Vinkovac. I got a job in Dubrovnik-Neretva County as well as many of my colleagues. The state hires us here and expects us to be happy to have a job, and they don't wonder how we have to pay what, direct and all that personal need. No stationer has offered us, although we have 150 Slavons in Metkovic himself, and the move home can, of course, only be given to those who say "sons of ministers", or people who have connections." What I would like to say is the following proposal of the law, or the amendment of the Police Act, I would support it if he increased the rights of police officers, if he said, for example, the state is obliged to provide accommodation. In my opinion, there should be a building in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, a home, a stationary, whatever, a military building where these people would have the right to accommodation. Because this is how they from their little pay actually end up with almost nothing left. As for the very changes to this law, you see, these amendments to the law whether cops will live better or worse. The obvious thing is that the goal is to take material rights and it's on the trail of what the unions are saying. I'll read you the thought of a union boy from the MUP. He says, "We have to admit that your government is very efficient and effective in making rules that need to be taken." So we don't really give these amendments to the law to cops anything, and it's the cops who carry the greatest rage, or the greatest burden of crisis. And why is that? Because the consequence of a missed economic policy is necessary, meaning the country's collapse in every sense within, the emergence of various forms of social pathology. So you have a situation of disintegrated families fighting over money and cops having to intervene under such conditions, expose their lives and health. You've got occupancy. I know that in deja tions, we nine of my colleagues are doing everything we can to make it harder for cops to do their job. One of the consequences of our resistance is that they can get spinal injuries, or spine injuries. And one of them who's trying to say that I'm in disillusioned because of the passive resistance I'm giving can cause a spinal injury. He can be disabled tomorrow. And he served this country. And when he was ordered to take them all he listened to, he did everything he needed to do. And in the end when that man gets sick, when he needs to retire disabled you'll tell him you have no right to severance, wait another two years. And in two years who lives, who dies, which will say that even though I'm in real life let's just say that I fought the police because I felt that what they're doing is wrong, that they're throwing out people who can't repay loans, and even the state itself can't bring them back as many of them to lose their jobs would find themselves in the same situation. In other words, I think the police are politicized to actually put themselves in the service of that policy. However, I still view them all as people who have their own life problems, who only try to survive and come home to their families in the evening. And for that reason, I find it unfair to postpone law enforcement for another two years, because the law was passed and there was no money at that time. You say two years from now. So who says it'll be two years from now? Maybe in two years we'll be in the same situation as we are now, and by all accounts, continuing this policy, and in two years it will be the same as it is now. Only the debt will be even bigger and the crisis will be deeper and less people will be in this country. Please, colleagues from HDZ and the Most, you represent yourself in public as patriotic parties. HDZ has a password that's credible. You've got paroles of honesty. Okay. Correct, all five. But then show what Minister Plenkovic said on this example show confidence in the institution. Because the cops trusted you, they trusted the legislator, they believed in his honesty, they believed that they would not be deceived. And the legislator is doing these amendments to the law? He actually cheated on them. He deceived them, and they believed him. Their trust has been betrayed. It's not a credible policy of the HDZ gentlemen. And I think you should find the means to enforce the law. So the law cannot be passed, so say no means, so we delay its application. I explained that earlier. Because when a police officer has to pay his dues, his war credit or whatever, so can he tell Hanžekovic I don't have it now, so I'd postpone by a year or two that commitment. It can't be done that way! Ultimately, although Prime Minister Plenkovic says the backbone of his strategy in the fight against protest parties will be to strengthen his confidence in the institutions. We also see that individuals who fight against this nadal policy in this case are being reduced by the rights of police officers, i.e. delaying those rights. We can see that the D.O.R.H.'s procedures are being conducted for graphing. So some cop, two cops arrested me in 2015 in the Council, and today I'm fighting for these cops, for their rights here, and their corrupt bosses can't get arrested. Neither can the legislator who makes laws against them, nor can politicians who have ruined the whole country. But I got arrested. And these cops will come to court one day and speak against me, testify. And in whose interest? In the interest of these people, who take their rights away from them. Ask your fellow officers who you fight for when you fight against us and will the future of you and your countries be better if you continue with this fight? I don't think so. And I invite you to this opportunity to move from evil to good that this policy that deprives you of your material rights condemn her in the elections. Say okay. You delay the application of our material rights, I will no longer vote for you. Don't let those who promise you a better life before the election, after the elections they tell you not to live better, you'll live up there we'll take your rights, and then again in the fifth month when local elections tell you that fellow cops like you now have to vote for, I don't know about HDZ. Don't do this, don't hold a ladder against those who work against you. And ask yourself gentlemen cops where the real problem is, and the real problem is not in this country, the real problem is corruption at the highest level in the CNB, in the CNB ladies and gentlemen. This superhuman law on the CNB has turned our country into a slave debtor and therefore the fate of you as citizens of that country is the fate of the future of slaves. And your children today or the question of whether you will be able to have them in these conditions, and at the end of the day, which will be their future in this country. Don't support those who work on your head and fight against the system that's playing you and making fools of you. Go to the election. Punish those who wish to take your rights, punish them. There are no other fellow officers if you want to protect your rights because as long as you do not punish them, they will remove your rights because the reason HVO defenders have the funds for their pensions in this budget is because you from the HVO in Herzegovina vote 90% for HDZ, and you officers do not see the electoral body in you. Then let me know if you wrote us off if you don't count on our votes we won't give them to you anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23899	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He's the first to be respected representative of Nikola Grumoja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23900	Your Honor, Vice President. Comrade Pernar, you warned one part of your speech was a pre-election speech, but at first you warned of a very important problem that I personally witness from day to day, people send me messages, warn me of a difficult situation, so it's about police officers from Slavonia who live and work in Metkovic and have very small salaries and then still have to pay rent. To their families, they can hardly send anything in essence, living in almost impossible conditions. The fact is, it's not exactly like you said that if someone has something to do with the minister to transfer him, these others remain, but are waiting to be transferred to those who have been stationed in Mekovic for a long time. You have also offered some sort of solution, perhaps to make some sort of accommodation for these people, which may be a logical solution, but definitely that problem should be solved because simply people with such salaries if they pay rent in Metkovic, a thousand kunas have nothing to live on down in Metkovic, and they have nothing to send to their families. And it's definitely something to think about, and this government should think about it in the MUP as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23901	Thank you very much. The Honorable Agent Pernar will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23902	Mr. Grumoja, thank you very much for your replica and for seeing what these people see, but the legislator doesn't see it because we sitting here in the Parliament are not in the skin of those cops and we're not aware of how the system breaks down on them. And if we go to protect these people, let's give them accommodation, for example. as in the Metkovic case, I would raise my hand behind me first and my colleagues for that proposal. Well, we wouldn't go to obstruct it just to obstruct or because that proposal comes from the ruling one. On the contrary. As in the case of a reduction in officials' salaries, we will support the MOST's proposal to change the coefficients so that they don't grow to us, we're not some people who just want to take it up with us, so that we can take it easy, God forbid. But this bill of law that enorms police rights and reduces, we will not support them for principled reasons, not for political, principled reasons. It's easy to take people, it's easy to derrogate, and it's an obligation to impose, and that's why we are opposed to this government's policy. When that government changes its policy, we'll be the first to raise a hand for it, there we go. I say, suggest different amendments to the law, changes that would go with the goal of improving the standards of police officers, we will support them. I was shocked by a cop the other day. We were at lunch together. We were talking. I couldn't believe a police officer had that kind of pay and risked his life for that salary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23903	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23904	Comrade Pernar, you explained this nicely, and then I heard from Grumoja, says we'll think about it. Yes, I agree with Grmoya in this country for 25 years but we haven't thought about anything, we haven't done anything, we haven't done anything right, so here's to the police. It's clear to me that my Slavons are down in Metkovic, that those little salaries are spent in Metkovic and down in Dubrovnik because nobody's going to work down there, and they're going to complain all the time. At least Slavons how much they go to work and want to make some money. However, do you know that the Croatian police are taking cars to the Leasings. I even heard from certain cops that they have to get in the car, they can't drive because they're coming out for miles. What's the cost of leatins? How many hundred cars is that? Is it better to take cars in a different way or in the way that Milanovic was prime minister and took a thousand cars, so the journalists asked him: How many, how did you take that? So he says, I don't know, they took it, I didn't even know it. Well, that's what it was like, actually. If a farmer so thought or a farmer and let time pass, certainly everyone would fall apart and nothing from this country would happen, as our politicians and our ministers and our government have thought in all the years we've had so far. I just wanted to say, you have to figure out how much the Leassins cost, and what it would cost a normal car that cops would drive for five, six and seven years, maybe even more if they kept it. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23905	Thank you. The Honorable Agent Pernar will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23906	Thank you, Mr. Misic. Yes, you said sad things. Sad for our society and sad for the very role that police officers play in our society. And not to keep everything in words, ladies and gentlemen, from HDZ because you often say that Pernar is dispersing demagogy, that it's all in words. I wrote the amendment. The amendment shall read as follows: Article 1 is deleted. An article delaying the payment of severance fees to police officers, etc. is deleted. This Decision shall enter into force on 1 January 2017. So while we were discussing here, I called the lawyer in our service at the club representative, said, "girl, give us an amendment to undo this proposal." And I hope that the SDP colleagues will support him, and I hope that among you there will be people in power who will have consciences and morals, who will show credibility and who will actually protect the dignity of the police officers, the same officers who have not shown mercy to me, the same officers who have not shown their conscience when I have called them to show their conscience. The same cops I told not to do it, not to throw their families out on the street. I'm fighting for the same cops now so they don't meet first. I hope those cops realize that their enemy is not me or that poor family, but a system that destroys us one by one, and eventually ends with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23907	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Ranko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23908	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, first around the stationery just before I said that there's a model when you want to try to create conditions, then specifically in the Coopers there's a stationary being built, it's probably going to be almost final, for the border police, just for the officers who have the most difficult conditions. The second clarification to you in Slavonia is really a lot of young people want to join the police, and I appreciate it, and among the 10,000 police officers who, or those who run for police, are very difficult to actually get into the circle of those 325 who are elected. And they need to take their hat off for it, do their job, then sign a contract saying they're willing to be cops anywhere, and among other things, in those areas where there's no interest in being other cops, and for that reason I mentioned backup police as a model of a solution that would temporarily ensure that local cops or people can do so. What's important is that I would invite you as a legislator today, no longer as a person fighting the police, to participate in amendments to the law, in amending the budget. What you wrote in the amendment, it's not really the right thing to do. You actually supported SDP's proposal, which is to pay off, means 20 million kuna, tomorrow's amendment that will be, because this is actually an annulment of the bill. So this is like saying we're gonna vote against it. I would also tell you the following, and that is that the issue of concern for police officers must be shown as legislator first of all in respecting the law. They are not the ones who make the decision of the court and when they provide assistance, etc. in cases where you say you fought against them, because you think that a cop goes there with joy, that he enjoys what someone needs, spends his time, gets out of the house, and stuff like that. Therefore, for this reason, please, I call you, let us change these laws. Let's say, there will be no execution, there will be no such thing as a situation in which we will allow police assistance, and not call on them now: "Do not respect it, in fact, something called Fatal Authority and Judgment Decisions and in which police officers are doing their job today professionally.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23909	The Honorable Agent Pernar will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23910	Thank you. Well, Mr. Ostojic, I agree with you. It's not good to delay the use of their severances. It's good to make a stationary in Vukovar, and basically I have nothing against these people, nor do I blame them for the policy the government is conducting. You said people aren't glad to have to do that, that deja tion. I know that. They told me often times: Ivan, I'm just doing my job. And you see, these people, by ruling the moment when they will vote as one for the derivation of their rights, to take away their severances, or to deny them, when the officers will ask them, "Lord, why have you done this to us?" You know what they will say. They'll say, "We were just doing our job. We were just doing our job. I invite everyone present in this House to start doing what's right and right, not just to get away with the parole and not just to get away with the parole, I was just doing my job. And in the end, I want to tell the cops that if they don't want to depose people anymore, if they don't want to watch the kids pay on the evictions, they're wondering who they're giving their voice to and what kind of politics they're supporting. Because as long as HDZ is in power and we've seen in the time of the SDP, we've witnessed unkind events, horrors. And I have to tell them that Prime Minister Plenkovic cheated on them, he told them HDZ would advocate a ban on enforcement of the only real estate. And some might have voted for him to stop those unfortunate actions and as soon as the elections went through, he said none of it, the raids went on. Don't vote for unworthy people, support us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23911	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mate Frankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23912	Dear colleague Pernar, I see you've obviously had a lot of work to do with the police that you've developed a love for the police and the police, and that's nice. And I'm glad you're standing up for their rights. However, by discussing the amendments to this law today, we are aware that the only police administration to be mentioned here today is the Dubrovnik-Neretvanska and Metkovic and Dubrovnik. But I believe you know that, but I'm interested in your opinion. In his statement, Minister Orepic pointed out not once more than once that it is unnecessary to have 20 police administrations so that we from the south of Croatia would have police headquarters in Split. I have repeatedly referred to this fact in my political performances that it is essentially working against the city of Dubrovnik, a city that is the champion of tourism, the abolition of the Dubrovnik-Neretva police administration and from the security aspect is problematic since we are separated from the country's queen. Most political parties in the city of Dubrovnik have said they are against the abolition of police administration. The living wall never came out, so I'd like to ask your opinion on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23913	The honourable representative, Ivan Pernar, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23914	Dear colleague. Who in this House does most? You HDZ gentlemen are part of the majority. Well, when they are proposed, if you are not satisfied with the work of Minister Orepic or his reorganisation, then why did you raise your hand for him. You could have said and you could say today, Mr. Orepic, we disagree with your reorganisation policy, we will no longer give you our support as Minister. But what are you doing? You are hypocritically calling me who did not support Minister Orepic and that policy he was conducting, what you said to abolish police administrations. At the same time, by suggesting that you are the one who is fighting for the remaining 20 police administrations, and you are the one who supports Minister Orepic, dear Mr. In Parliament with his voice and hence his decisions. Let's not lie, let's not make a sucker out of these kids sitting upstairs because they know that too. That's what every dear sir sees. And on the other hand, you speak, you mention Dubrovnik-Neretvanska. Let me mention, but I also mention the macro situation and the macro situation is that you take their severances. What a man here now, a man has injured his spine in debacle, so he won't wait two years to retire, he'll now go into disability pension. He is waiting for him, as it is called, to be approved by the commission, according to a general medical doctor's proposal. So what now? He's supposed to stay in the air, sneaking around sick for another two years until this delay of yours passes? It's crazy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23915	Thank you. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23916	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. With most of what's said about the state, about the material state of police, police officers, equipment, the conditions in which they work, I agree. Where there are differences it is in approach and in emphasis. The main reason why this prolongation was sought for two years, i.e. why we are now looking for for a year is the main reason for these two years was the financial reason, the financial problems that there is not enough money. However, it seems to me that it is a wrong approach to address these material conditions from wages to other circumstances. In my opinion, it should start with how large systems are managed, and there is something where big differences have arisen and there are differences in how to solve these problems. We had the opportunity to hear today from the secretary of state we cannot know how many people are going to retire and on the basis of which criteria we then establish a balance between what the unions claim to be going to about 300 people or what the proposing or ministry claims to be able to go to 7 or 7.5 thousand people. Note that this is simply with such conflicting attitudes, i.e. with the lack of knowledge of the facts or the need and requirements of the real ones simply cannot be managed by that system. Therefore, the basis for it to come out should have been an agreement with the unions, a police union to determine these gauges in view of the requirements both on the one hand and on the other. The clear point when we talk about managing the system is that it is also worth the starting point Mr. Ostojić pointed out that if 74% of the police's income only goes to pay that the maneuvering space is then in such a system for the development of such a system is reduced and that we cannot expect much improvement there. In this sense, we need not only this time to take advantage of the precise answer that people can know when they will go, when they will be able to achieve these severances that they have with this law that has not yet come into force, when it will be able to realise on the one hand and on the other hand that the ministry can plan both education and example and the inflow of new personnel in the next period of time. It seems to me that the key to this approach is the key to the problem and if we are going to have this one approach to managing large systems then we will be able to find and answer whether, whether we need it or better, cheaper, or what are the conditions for going to Leasing when it comes to rolling stock or shopping, this way by heart everyone can have an opinion but it will not have a firm argument and a basis. On the other hand, the same thing that with another approach could answer the opinions that we heard during this debate was actually a wrong system and then called on both police officers and others to disobey the law, which is simply unacceptable and particularly unacceptable to speak here in the Croatian Parliament where laws should be proposed and new laws should be passed, or to improve existing laws. So in my opinion, it is necessary to agree with the trade unions as soon as possible so that everything is prepared to begin to realize this severance so that as soon as the law comes into force it can be realised that everyone is clear about the rules of conduct of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23917	Thank you. We have a few replicas. He is the first to be respected representative of Ivan Lovrinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23918	Dear Professor Tudjman, you're a man who's been dealing with national security for a long time I'd like to ask you what this budget says in the context of geopolitical readings? We are indeed witnessing a worsening relationship with the realisation of Turkey-EU and is really threatening the serious danger of the return of the river of migrants or refugees to the west and so on to Croatia. In such an environment where national security is threatened, the interior minister says it is a greater threat to national security than the Constitutional Court rather than to borders, means possible migrants. If such a situation is and we see that the budget is miserablely increased as you are an expert in interpreting such a single situation does not mean a message through the budget that the Croatian government and the Ministry of the Interior are assessing that there is no such risk and if there is and there is no increased allocation in the budget we know that we cannot expect the basic police and office officials to rush to the border tomorrow if refugees come from Turkey. The border police are something special, they're specially trained people, it takes a lot of time to invest in them. What I've learned, and I'm looking for the denials that only a few dozen border police officers are crossing the border of a thousand and a half miles away, so I just said that our border is hollow, we gentlemen have a serious problem. We can't keep that quiet. The thermals can't work when they're corn, there's not enough people, I say border police are special. Do you agree, or are you in favour of opening a plenary session immediately after the new year, on this security situation, given the borders and the state of police, especially its demotiveness for the job? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23919	Thank you. The honourable representative Miroslav Tudjman will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23920	Thank you, Mr. President. As far as the national security system is concerned, I wrote my remarks just two, three years ago and sent them back and to the president of the then Republic and the Prime Minister who are all the failures of that system and I believe that this is objectively indicated. As for what you just said, I think it is already, that steps have been taken because it has been announced that within 6 months, but two months have passed, it is necessary to adopt a National Security Strategy and a comprehensive National Security Act since 2000, because these laws have been passed here but in part so that this system doesn't actually work. And given that, then, we should find complete measures that will unite protection along the way, it's not just a matter of physical surveillance of the border of individuals because today we have on one side 4 radar systems that are not networked, so the sea border, they don't control the surface as it should be. On the other hand, a good part of the countries in the Union has already introduced drones so that these systems can be used. So it's a far more complex system that needs to be redesigned or built up to a good start. Obviously, no country has enough money to equip this system as it wishes, but at the very least we need to be aware of the means available that we can say to mitigate or eliminate risks and where we remain vulnerable. And that already enables us to be successful during a certain period of time. On the other hand, today's time is such that these threats are not only from the image of these tsunamis, but also from cyber crime and I don't know what and information warfare, so we don't have the answers to that and we need to agree on how to react. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23921	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mladen Madero.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23922	Your Honor, Vice President, you spoke of national security. It is clear that it is necessary and that it depends on how much funds it has in the budget at all that it can finance. But I'd go back to being a cop. We know they were officers among the first to stand up for Homeland defense. And I have to point out one particular case from my county where a police officer was among the first active officer to step into defense. And unfortunately, he's got a disease, waiting for a kidney transplant. And unfortunately, for two years, he's been going through all the tests, he's doing dialysis regularly, his mental state is getting worse and worse. But he simply doesn't call anyone and he hasn't come in as he says, because he probably doesn't have any connection or anything to do with one kidney transplant. And I think we should have it here, and here I am asking you as an honourable representative to help the cops. And clearly it may just be about, I know about a specific case but there may be a lot of such cases in Croatia, and I think we should have a lot more attention and care about those who were among the first and stood at the altar in the defense of the Homeland.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23923	Thank you. The honourable representative Miroslav Tudjman will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23924	This formulation among the first I think should be corrected was the only one, because the Croatian army did not have, and only from the sixth month after we could have had these units. As far as this is concerned, I'd like something more for those of us who remember a little longer somewhere in '67, the eighth when the first protests were here, then the main question is whether the cops will go against the people who demonstrate. Because that relationship between the police and the people was such that it couldn't be separated. As for what you said, look at big systems like both the military and the police have no elaborate plan and care for their people not only when they're in health problems, but they're people who have an unfettered internship, so they're early retirement. And it's normal for me to find a job somewhere to still work, to keep their working days going. Therefore, we do not have such programs where these people would have priority and where they would primarily be counted. On the other hand, in Europe and in those systems where we, as Croatia, are now participating less and less police to protect and other jobs, are increasingly moving to the private sector. And it would be normal for these people who are going to retire tomorrow to be there, having key priorities and taking the lead because the security system is then far greater and more developed. And without further ado, when it comes to these cases of health threats or treatment that there must be a ministry's obligation to do so... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23925	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed representative, Ranko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23926	Professor Tudjman, I know that the National Security Strategy as a strategic document is necessary and necessary to determine the directions to which we will naturally relate to the financial resources. However, it is in my view an insufficient argument that we are now postponing this thing with this correction that it says is if there is a restriction, that is, a limit that suggests a union to establish according to the criteria how many police officers would exercise the right to severance. And I totally support that. In the national security system, both modern aircraft and vessels and long-range cameras and everything else that exists at the moment will certainly be able to be an integral part of all those parts that make our border impermeable. Centres for illegal migrants, built police stations all of the funds of the Schengen Facilitity Fund 120m euros. So one story is completely separate from the migrant wave as some other situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23927	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed representative of Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23928	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Ostojić, I answered the question, the question I was asked not to delay what this debate is, that is, resolving this issue of severance. And frankly, I said that the main problem with managing the system is because no matter who the minister is, you can't tell me I don't know if it's going to go 7 or 7 and a half thousand or 300 or 400 people in retirement because he assumes not only education and replacement for those people but also taking care of them, what I said earlier and care about not only put them in retirement and forget about them. It needs to be far greater, this relationship should be far different from what we said earlier. So, in my opinion, this social dialogue with the trade unions is crucial, and it seems to me that the rational proposals that the union made are, and I don't see any reason why these things don't work out as soon as possible. The law can be a framework and this can go long before it's fixed.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23929	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Angel Strick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23930	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. First I give you greetings from Varazdin, currently the capital of the Republic of Croatia. Here after 340 years these days, i.e. This week, the president of the Republic of Croatia decided to move his office to Varazdinska and Međimurska County, and we will be the capital for a week. My colleagues and colleagues, these changes to the Police Act, to whom do they apply? They refer to officers who go into retirement, early retirement, or who have the possibility of going to a disability pension because of a professional illness. And who are these people inside the police system? These are the bravest, most determined and most capable police officers, those who entered the system in the '90s. and '91. who didn't save themselves during the Homeland War, who first stood on the defender of the homeland, and among other examples, I'll try to tell you how many victims they've submitted. On September 11, 1991, 185 police officers from the Varazdin Police Department left for shift in Vukovar. Of them 185 died 21, today five of them are missing, 119 ended up in a concentration camp, wounded 66 or 9 November Special Unit of the Rode Police, the Varazdinski Police Administration is going into a breakthrough through Karadzic for Vukovar precisely with the intention of trying to extract their fellow Varazdins and others in Vukovar who were surrounded by outsiders. Of them 124 are killed, one is reported missing today and 28 are wounded. All those cops who left in the '90s. and '91. It is the backbone or core of the MUP. However, after the arrival of each SDP government, first the police are hit, so Racanov and Milanovic are abolishing police schools. The SDP does not need a trained police officer, trained, educated, need suitable and obedient, as if the price of our citizens were not important, the price of our citizens' safety. I believe that the security of our citizens has no price and that police school is needed again. Let's just imagine that in our country we have two terrorist attacks, I don't know what, no victims, what's the impact on the economy and on tourism? That for SDP governments, police are always both personnel and material and financial equipment can be cited in a series of examples and cases, and among other things, negative staff selections are always taking place. So we have, say, a gold robbery at the Zagreb Police Administration, we have a weapons disappearance at the Varazdinska Police Administration, all of the leading personnel came to their duties and positions during the SDP government. I have an article here since 17 March 2015, entitled “Two officers tried to take a life. One survived," within the same police station in the article, it says that 20 asked for psychosocial help. I would be interested in, say, how the then-museum MUP and the minister reacted to the case. Imagine you every other cop inside the same police station asking for psychosocial help. And we think the security system is good. Not to be too long, there are plenty of examples. I believe that the intensity of this law is precisely that those of the finest, bravest, most capable of the '90s. and '91. remain that year, two more in the system because they are needed because of all the security situation in the environment. I will therefore support this HDZ amendment and I believe it is going towards a good solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23931	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He is the first to be respected representative of Ranko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23932	Dear fellow Uncle. I didn't realize you were in power or not. You've had enough time to change the situation if you thought it was better schooling for two years in high school then two years in high school or in the variant that there is a four-year police school, a 9-month-old school plus 3 months of mentoring and a year after that at the police station practice is something that is obviously a model that is still being applied today. It seems to me that you've forgotten since you could change it all again. As for the management staff, they would have to know when they were employed, none of them could have come to the post of management unless he had ten years of command duties, so figure it out yourself. What's important, and this is an opportunity to give people who are just defenders who were the first as you said that after 25 years of these times, if they want and deserve a pension they get a decent severance. And I would expect it from you, not to come up with a variant that you're saying they need in the system and let's not let them go, they and now they can only go with much less severance. It's a subject of this law, not a story about the rest of it that you're citing about psychosocial aid. I'm not going to be answering your newspaper article from two days ago, when there wasn't another case, but there was suicide and what it was about. Therefore, I think it would be very correct and better to talk about the situation, and that is to give these people a chance in particular that all together is not so much serious money that they should make a problem out of it. The simplest step down from the bill at all, and the minister will give consent to a specific number of people, and that is that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23933	Thank you. The Honorable Agent Striker will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23934	My colleague Ostojić, after every lead of your police system, this system is so devastated that the two next governments regardless of whose they were and not enough to fix it. Among other things, your response as of 7 April 2015 regarding the disappearance of a larger amount of weapons and other means of murder, we are free to tell you that police officers in cooperation with the competent State Attorney's Office are carrying out criminal research into criminal offences, illicit possession, manufacture and purchase of weapons and explosive substances. Since criminal research is still under way, we are currently unable to provide further clarifications. So, the same minister for two years since it's been known that the Varazdin Police Department has been missing over 100 pieces of firearms, the investigation is still ongoing. You here as a minister claim that the competent state attorney's office is aware of this. Last week, he served as a state lawyer in parliament to mark the Anti-Corruption Day. He doesn't know shit about it. Who's lying here? How is it possible that one of these same design police units is investigating itself?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23935	My fellow Uncle, this really has nothing to do with this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23936	So I answer, I mean, to the replica. It means she was going the wrong way from a fellow replica. Or when the gold went missing to the Zagreb Police Department, a week didn't know anything while they were investigating themselves. When the team came to the side, it was discovered who was most likely the perpetrator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23937	Dear Representative Ranko Ostojic has a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23938	Here is the injured Rules of Procedure 232 to be precise: The speaker can only talk about the subject under the established agenda. If the speaker moves away from the agenda theme, the chairman will warn him to stick to the agenda, which you have already done. But what's important really has nothing to do with the subject, not even time. I'm glad you're still speaking to me from the minister. I'm not a minister anymore, and I can tell you that two governments have changed in this, if you didn't know. What is true to you and this last case you state and the answer you receive from the Ministry, the Department of Public Relations, refers to a police administration that can only share information with the consent of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, which, under the Law on Police Affairs and Powers and the Law on Criminal Procedure, is the body that manages the police, not the Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23939	That's what we solved. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23940	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleagues and fellow MPs, my colleague Strick. We all agreed today that our officers are doing a hard and responsible job, and the problems that haven't been there since yesterday. They've been piling up for years, and we all know the time has come to really come to solve them. Here I am once again returning to one difficult and responsible task of our officers who had in my county, it was a winter transit center through which 344 refugees went through. They have indeed done a very responsible and difficult job, and there have been perhaps two, three small incidents that they have been reacting to and solved in time. Here's why it means we should all work together on better conditions for our officers. We know that every boy and girl's dream when they were little or mine, but most of my friends and friends were being a Croatian cop. Let's not ruin this dream of our future generations, but let's all work together on better conditions, and as I said, these aren't the problems yesterday, because they were piling up, but now here's how to fix that economic picture I hope the time has come to mean, Croatian cops finally get all of their deserved benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23941	Thank you. The Honorable Agent Striker will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23942	Thank you, colleague. I agree with you that they deserve benefits because they really deserve it. I agree that they need both personnel, both materially and financially, as best they can and certainly give them aport. Also when we talk about migrants, I think the police did a very good job more or less, except when they were ordered to train migrants to Hungary, so the Hungarian police captured both the police and the migrants and the train. This is what I consider to be related to the police's treatment of migrants, that they have done indeed one very good, complex and demanding job and very good quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23943	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23944	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm glad you mentioned that the police officers were the first to go to the Vukovar defense, and our officers from Brod and Nova Gradiška were among the first to be with Vukovar, and they were also on Plitvice when the first director was killed and some of them retired before the time because such a system was then that some had to go against their will to retire and today live on 2,900 kuna pension. They're hard to live for, and they didn't get any severances. And it's not good that we've already delayed this law twice, and that's where I agree with you. Of course, we all advocate that there is no delay now but to start from 1.1 next year to make up for the people who have been wronged to retire, to make up a schedule, but to define clear criteria. Because what I hear from the field is that people are afraid of who will define those criteria, who will have the right to retire first, whether it's a year of internship, a war trip, I think it should all be taken into account and that people expect it to be transparent, not that it determines itself a minister or some commission that the minister will define. And I think you all agree and we agree on the debate as already said. In order for the system to function, it must be a police officer and equipped and motivated. And in order to be motivated, they must be raised and paid and provided with material conditions. And I think that in that direction, we need to lead future discussions to make these people work in adequate conditions with adequate salaries and not to benefit from it now we see Metkovic because he drinks 400 coffees and eats 400 sandwiches. I'd like them to eat in both Novi Gradiška and Slavonski Brod, not to remove the station there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23945	Thank you. The Honorable Agent Striker will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23946	Thanks a lot, buddy. So here's how crucial the police were in the Homeland War. 7 generals of the Croatian Army came out of it. They all earned their rank on the battlefield and these are more or less all of them from the 1990s and 91s exactly so this law applies to their colleagues. I agree with you that we must take care of security, that the safety of our citizens is crucial, that... there is no price and the intensity of this law as I am experiencing it is one of the best quality when it remains in the MUP system for another year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23947	Thank you. And the last replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23948	Thank you, Chairman. I listened to the words of Mr. HDZ, saying that it's hard for cops, that it's not easy for them, that it's hard for them, that it's not good that their rights are derrogated and so good. And it reminded me of so-called. Crocodile tears. I mean, when I was younger, I thought that crocodile tears when someone tears those tears, that he's very sad. However, what the expression of crocodile tears does not apply to the size of someone’s wages, or to someone’s grief over something but to crocodiles when devouring their prey, their eyes feel little tears. It means when they devour their victim. Thus, a HDZ counterpart sheds crocodile tears over the fate of police officers and when he comes to vote this bill that reduces their rights, he will first raise his hand to their rights. And what he's doing right now is I'd call him the highlight of cynicism and actually a farce, a farce that will continue on Thursday and at the moment he's going to vote for my immunity because of the charming of two graphites. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23949	Thank you. Now we're gonna hear if the Honorable Uncle eats cops or not? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23950	Blessed are the poor by spirit, their kingdom is the heavens.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23951	Thank you very much. With this, we will conclude the debate and we will vote when the conditions are met. We will now have a break of up to 3 hours after which will be the point Report on the work of the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War for 2015. Thank you. It's 1:00. 20 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23952	The following is the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Police Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 56. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club and MOST Representatives' Club of Independent Mosts, the Live Wall Representatives' Club and the SNAGA. I ask the motionary's representative to be shown about the amendment submitted, Stjepan Loncarica, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior. The first amendment was submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club and the Most Independent List Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23953	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The amendment of the HDZ and MOST Representatives Club is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23954	Thank you. That's when this amendment becomes, it's included in the final bill. The next amendment came from the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23955	This amendment is not accepted. The reason is that the State budget for 2017 does not provide the means necessary for the application of the provision of Article 21. The law of the police.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23956	Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23957	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Well, here's what the gentleman said through his teeth that he wouldn't support the amendment. And the gentleman doesn't even listen, he whispers, he doesn't care about the applicant's explanation, he probably doesn't care. Here's a thank you, sir, for having so much consideration for us who've been elected to the election unlike you. I would like to say that my proposal went towards giving the police their rights, that what has already been passed with the delay not to postpone that severance for 2019 because many of them planned to retire this year or next. And I think this is the unfair solution that you've offered them, or you haven't even asked them anything, this is one non-democracy measure, and you're actually doing it on your own, because these people, these cops, they're the ones who protect this system, they're the ones that, when they're other workers are protesting, they're the ones who're gonna stop the riots and now they actually realize that they're being played themselves. And I appeal to them on this occasion not to support the election of those political options that vote to take their rights, to delay their rights. Because you're saying, the state budget is bad this year, so it was three or four years ago when that delay law was passed and the same weather was going to get worse in two years, and then what, you're going to put it off forever? Then why did you give people those rights in the first place? You could've told them not to give it to you and O.K., people would know we wouldn't, and not like this, give them some rights, and then delay their application until the day of judgment. Please vote on my amendment. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23958	I'd like respected MPs and MPs to approach the vote. The vote is over. I find that the above-mentioned amendment has not received the required majority. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law amending the Police Act. Please engage in the vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes are 83 votes in favour, one abstention and 25 against the passed Law amending the Police Act together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23959	Here is our esteemed colleague and colleague's break, and we will now continue as announced by: - Report on the work of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War for 2015. Reporter is the Croatian-Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War based on Article 9. Law on the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War. Due to the scope of the report is located on the Assembly website. The debate was conducted by the Committee on War Veterans and the Committee on Education, Science and Culture whose reports you received at the session. The government has delivered its opinion. Does the applicant want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. The Honorable Director of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War, Dr. Ante Nazor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23960	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Here is as already said a more extensive and shortened version of this report of our 2015 Centre you have on the website, you were sent a short version, so I would not repeat all this data that we have listed in the report, they are accurate but I would just like to warn you of something that is not listed and it is current, related to the list of the deaths and deaths of the people of the Republic of Croatia in the Homeland War. I was already saying here that this list was taken over by our center three years ago and that we worked intensively on its update these years, that we were through the main lists and database that was delivered to us from the Ministry of Defense that we also passed the original material of the Medical Faculty related to the victims and civilians and defenders, and that we also went through 140 books of sacrificials to check that we have all that information in the books in our list and vice versa that there is something missing in those books. What I can say right now is that in the database of our center, there are deaths and deaths in the Homeland War, we have 8 thousand 262 defenders, but I would warn that there are 1231 people on that list who are mentioned in some documents as a civilian. We're taking her under the defense base right now. But just so you know, there are 7031 defenders and 1231 people who are still being seduced somewhere else as a civilian. We have 6650 civilians on the base, but what I'm warning you about last year, and what I warned us about last year, we can't publicly announce that base until we know all the data related to the whereabouts of those persons and the circumstances of the victims. So if we're going to look at it right now with what our center has, these are the names, 14 thousand 912 people who died in the Homeland War, but note that for about 3,000 of them, we need to further check the circumstances and the deaths to be able to say them out loud and clear, these are the final numbers. It is likely that most of them will be confirmed but simply the name list cannot, of course, go public until all the information on them is known. I didn't include missing persons here, it's a special book that was published in May 2015 and there are also very clear data. Of course, since May 2015, there were 2138 unsolved cases, 1716 missing, and 422 were persons known to have died but not known where their remains were. Today's situation is that it's about 1993 missing persons and 1571 missing, 422 still seeking remains, and it's known that they died. And of these 1571 missing is 920, referring to the year '91. and '92. and 651 to 1995. That's what I meant to point out today in light of yesterday's news and the data provided by NGOs. And yet stressing that the state is working on it, not only on the dead and mortally injured in the free part of the territory of the Republic of Croatia, but also on the list of killed and killed and in the occupied region of the Republic of Croatia during the war, they are mostly members of the Serb peoples. This number is 6239, of which 3574 has fighter status, 1632 has civilian status and for 1033 persons it is not possible to establish status on the basis of documents. Here I just wanted to not take any further precious time to warn that it's working on that the indicative numbers are familiar but that before a thorough update we can't go with it, we can't display them as the final numbers. Well, here's to your knowledge, and I'd be very happy to give you a few more questions after I've been on behalf of the clubs and alert the individual if I have to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23961	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And on behalf of the HDZ Club, the first one will speak to the distinguished representative Marijana Balic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23962	esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Director of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War Dr. Nazor. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, I would like to explain my support for the 2015 report on the work of the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War. We commend the work of the centre that has been working hard, persistent and thorough since the year of its draft to date to reveal the truth about the Homeland War. We support the activities carried out during that period, and we believe that it is necessary to continue to encourage independent and objective work of the centre to continue uninterrupted with its action. The Croatian Memorial documentation centre of the Homeland War is one of the most important scientific research institutions, which, by its work, retains the memory of a fair and legitimate Liberation Homeland War. It is worth reminding that the document adopted by this very House in October 2000, which is about the Declaration of the Homeland War as the fundamental value of the Homeland War, cited the establishment and defence of the state sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia which created assumptions for the rule of law and the rule of law, and the legal functioning of state bodies as the best way to further affirm the dignity of the Homeland War. We can all agree that the centre has a remarkable contribution to the lighting of the truth about the Homeland War, which is the undisputed foundation of the modern Croatian state, and that it has also made a significant contribution to the fight to free and prove the innocence of our generals in The Hague. We therefore believe that in the coming period we must further emancipate the strategic importance of the Centre for the Republic of Croatia. We believe it is necessary to strengthen and support the Mostar Documentation Centre, a scientific institution that was founded just over 3 years ago to research and publish materials from the Homeland War in BiH. The additional argument for this is the recent events in Orashje, more specifically the arrest of ten former members of the Croatian Defence Council from the Bosnian Posavina area. This way, we welcome the decision of the court of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which abolished detention for the arrested Croatian citizens from Orasj. However, numerous indictments with the qualification of a joint criminal enterprise against members of the Croatian and Croatian HVO are not acceptable and testify to the need to intensify systematic scientific collection and processing of data and documents related not only to the war in Croatia but also to Bosnia and Herzegovina. The complete truth about the Homeland War and events in neighbouring BiH is the basis for ensuring legal certainty and a stable life of unburdened past for our BiH defenders and compatriots. Unfortunately, after the end of the war, the public was busy with various distorted thesiss such as the thesis of the agreed, including the civil war. They tried to balance our guilt, even thesis on a common criminal enterprise. The work of the centre also helped to eliminate such insinuations and attempts to end history and contributed to clearer lighting of facts and truth. He showed all the importance of collecting, analysing and presenting historical facts to counter various manipulations. The report in question shows that the centre continuously through three departments and four departments makes a maximum effort to raise awareness of the meaning of the values of the Homeland War, i.e. to fulfil its main task, which is why it is founded, which is to collect, arrange, preserve and professional and scientific research and... from the Homeland War. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is thus visible that the centre in 2015 received at least 123 requests from natural and legal persons, which gives insight into the active and availability of the centre and the interest that the centre itself causes in both natural and legal persons and justifies its existence. I also welcome the information that the library of the centre has increased the number of books and titles in both printed and digital form. It also praised the fact that the centre published 8 books last year and has one in preparation. We also welcome the continued work on updating data on dead defenders and civilians in the Homeland War, i.e. work on the project direct demographic losses of the Republic of Croatia in the Homeland War. The identity and discovery of missing persons during the Homeland War are still an unresolved and painful issue especially for their families. We stress the importance of a faster and more continuous solution to this painful issue and the relations of Croatia and Serbia, and we also call on the Memorial centre and all other stakeholders in society who are systematically working to reveal the truth about the Homeland War that we are all working together to make an additional effort and make a real move in finding missing people in the war. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, as the director of Nazor recently said, history should be known to be known, not to be forgotten and not to be repeated. Archive publishing activity The Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War makes a significant contribution, and it certainly helps to strengthen our consensus and unity in society about the Homeland War which we had opportunities to see on this year's anniversary of the fall of the heroic city of Vukovar. The Homeland War needs to be taught, written, told and collected so that it never forgets or repeats itself. Books, records, photographs, exhibitions remain younger generations as a lasting truth about the Homeland War, which defends the independent and sovereign Republic of Croatia. The following Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the programme's 2015 report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23963	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives of the Living Wall in the name of which the distinguished representative Branimir Bunjac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23964	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, dear principal. The report on the work of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War for 2015 is one of the few reports we received, which deserves a passing assessment. The very insight into this report as well as comparison with some other reports, especially with institutions in culture and science, makes it quite clear that the Croatian Memorial-documentation centre is fulfilling its task according to the given possibilities. It is important to note that only 18 employees work at the Documentation Centre, that they are all professionally perfected, that there are now 7 doctors of science and more employees in the doctoral study, that they publish books. In 2015 they were authors or authors of nine books, published 24 scientific or professional works, significantly increased the scope of the archival building, which is their primary activity, so videos, photographs, memoirs, digitalized buildings. In part, they expanded the collection in the library, all with very modest funds that amount to about three million kunas insufficient, but the institution shares the fate of the Croatian budget and economy as a whole, of course and the state of science itself. When we talk about this comparison with some similar institutions or foundations, let's say what the Science Foundation is, it will soon be on the agenda, the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre has also achieved its own incomes of around 15% and it is very commendable that they depended not only on the funds from the budget but have found ways and to achieve some means by their own work. What might improve is, say, collecting audio memoirs while people are still alive, while people are still relatively freshly remembering some events from the past, some things are not recorded on written material, so these memories may need to be recorded more to a greater extent, which, of course, implies a much larger volume of work. Perhaps by increasing the workers and that part of the building collected will be enriched. Of course, someone will notice that this report has recorded too few building users. In fact, only 123, which is really small, but unfortunately it points to the general state of Croatian science, too few people are employed in places of scientific recruits in research centres and this number reflects this poor state. What Director Nazor said and what should definitely be pointed out, but also commended is the fact that it has been approached to create a list of victims and it is very important to note, a complete list of victims. So far in the past, not so long ago, there have been lists of victims on only one side of the war picture. So there were lists of victims either for members of the winning army or for members of the defeated army, and there was no complete picture of actual demographic losses on the territory of a country here in this case Croatia. Since it was not possible to obtain a complete picture, it finally happened that the number of victims began to be manipulated, and then the worst of all began to bid on the number of victims in the sense of who had more deaths, the larger victim, which is completely inappropriate in this problem. For this reason, he praised that the Croatian Memorial-documentation centre had begun to list all victims in the occupied areas, i.e. areas of so-called The Republic of the Serbian province. Some questions can be asked, let's say, when a list of victims is being made against the strict aggressor army, whether the number of victims who died in the territory of Croatia from other countries is also taken into account. So does the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre have any knowledge of how many people died in Croatia, and they may have been from the territory of BiH, Serbia, Montenegro, and here war participants. Of course, the question can also be asked whether there is any knowledge about Croatian citizens who died in other countries' territory, perhaps in BiH in that short war in Slovenia or elsewhere. The issue of making a complete and credible list of victims is very complicated, especially in this case the victims of the Homeland War, because there are very strong administrative barriers, means there are restrictions that put the MUP, restrictions that exist in courts, restrictions that exist in the home offices and on this side should be improved or regulated in such a way that researchers of the Croatian Memorial and documentation centre are allowed to access those data for scientific purposes, so that they receive data on the addresses of the homes of the deceased and the records they have because they are often known to have the same name, last name. Let's just say that in Croatia only Ivan Horvat or maybe I don't know Stjepan Zadravec, there are thousands of people with the same name and only the name and last name do not fully identify the victim. The identification of victims, or the list of victims, can be done by many other criteria and should actually be made complete. It would be interesting to learn about the proportion of victims in Croatia by nationality, by religion, by status of profession, by marital status, by the number of descendants, but what is most important in fact to learn, would be the most important place to create one place where two important data could always be learned very precisely. The first, which is the method of the victim's death and the second, where the burial site is located. These are two very important data that, at this point in time, with such restrictions, cannot be made. As I said to the director of those for 3,000 victims, it's a huge number, I can't determine the exact way of death. And there could be a certain space for manipulation. These manipulations or, let's say, problems will best be seen at the time when historical books will be written and the memorial markings will be made. These are very serious things, and people will not be satisfied with the mentions on which someone's name and name will be misspelled, on which someone's name will be left out, and don't God forbid we have a memorial mark on which the people who didn't deserve it would be mentioned. With those mentions, there were a lot of problems in some areas. They spent themselves on a local scale of significant means, and in the end, these markings turned into some kind of mockery where no one seriously wants to take the victims out. So it's very important now, as long as we still have the possibility that witnesses are alive, those who have seen, who know some data, that we all engage together while there's political will, and I believe that there is now a political will for this issue, appropriate, to make that list of victims and to conclude once and for all, that in the future we no longer have such obstacles as we have, unfortunately, because of the victims of World War II, that this question is being raised in a very unpleasant way, and that the profession itself has no adequate answer to answer the public. And the money was spent hugely later. And you know that there was also a parliamentary commission in this, it was formed, that the parliamentary commission received 11 million kuna and that the results were very weak and that the whole thing was never completely rounded up and absorbed. Here's so much from me. The living wall will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23965	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. First, she's the esteemed representative of Steve Cule. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23966	The Honorable Chairman. I was absolutely surprised by my young colleague Bunjac, the way he said his exposure here. He mentioned: a witness of time, manipulation, ways of suffering, place of burial. These are all terms that can be used here in the Croatian Parliament in the most direct way, and to be linked to my efforts, and with the help of the Documentation-Memoral Centre and Ante Nazora and others who have presented the exhibition with historical, therefore the only one in 25 years in the Croatian Parliament, which spoke of the loss of Vukovar, the occupation of Vukovar from the Serbian side. And also the previous exhibition, which was staged for 25 years by the killings of Croatian directors, 12 of them in Borovo Selo, where we tried to synergy together to contribute to the truth about the Homeland War at least in one part of the heroic struggle that was for our country. In order for the truth to remain recorded, effort must be made and work on it and we must write that truth ourselves at least while the witnesses are alive. And I think that with the help of the Documentation Centre and Mr. Nazor, at least for our lives, it will come to this truth so that history is written in the way that it should be, not with the lies that will share us further in the future. Since it's too short for me to read, Rade Sherbedzija wrote an autobiographical record in 2004, in which he presented a series of lies specifically to his city of Vinkovce and to the death of 12 directors. I've just reached the fragments of that book of his, and I'll try to read and contribute to culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23967	Dear comrade Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23968	Thank you very much. Comrade Culey, the truth of course needs to be learned. It should be obtained by scientific workers. Of course, first of all historians, but also many others, demographers, sociologists. I believe the Homeland War will be explored for decades. The question of victims is only a fundamental question of this issue. It will be necessary to answer questions about how many people were wounded, how many people were in captivity, how many people had to move around during the Homeland War, what were the sociological and social consequences and the very interesting question they would have to answer to the economy: what economic damage Croatia suffered during the Homeland War, how much it affected the economy as a whole, and probably the new crisis we have experienced in recent years. These are therefore questions that require an answer, and I hope here that the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre and other related institutions will receive appropriate assistance from the state in the coming period which will therefore be increased so that science will isolate what is needed because by revealing the truth society will heal in general, little which can therefore heal society as it can be true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23969	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Predrag Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23970	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bunjac was very pleased to hear your exposure because I see that you are still very honest and you are not infected, infected with politics that can often be seen in this home. So it is good luck for Croatia that there is a Memorial-documentation centre that works exactly as his name says and unfortunately and they are sometimes a little infected with politics but I hope the director will. The attitude manages to resist this and historically show those facts that were in the Homeland War that only when they are true are they purest. Nothing should be added, nothing should be taken away for the whole story to be good. I just want to tell you in this section one missing person part. I'm telling you this firsthand because for years I've been working on this job and I can tell you that there is a memory-documentation centre that says that in Croatia we are currently looking for 1571 people of our citizens. Unfortunately, this year's storm celebration read that Croatia is still searching for 920 of its citizens, which would be very good after all these years if we had found so many people. But believe me, unless all of our missing citizens are wanted, we can't expect parole from the other side to tell us, to show us where the mass graves are if we're not going to look for those persons with equal intensity. The second part I'd say about this was when you saw dr. The point was that it was very delicate to explain it and say it, but here's how much more I get in this time alone. So if someone was badly wounded in the storm and was not killed at the moment but taken to the hospital, he could have died, a day, two, a month or three months, we remain in doubt whether he died or what happened to him. And then if we put him on the memorial of the fallen Storms and put a date 1.10 on it. '95. Then someone says, "Look," so he couldn't have died on the 1.10th when the Storm was at the 8th month, so it's just as delicate things to worry about at the memorial center. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23971	The respected Branimir Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23972	Dear fellow Matic, you have essentially detected this problem. Namely, what about those who died from the aftermath of the wound. I tried to answer this question myself in my own time, and I was amazed that every country, almost every country, has its own solution. Some will have the consequences of wounding, death is worth 30 days after wounding, and some countries have 3 and 5 years after being wounded if death follows, it is believed to be a war sacrifice. And it even happened that, say, the war was already over, I don't know, World War I or World War II and people were dying in peace but still they were a recognition for war victims. I do not know exactly how this right is regulated in Croatia, but I believe that people will be able to give some measure in this matter, although I am actually almost sure in advance that they will never be able to determine who the victim of war is or is not. And it can happen here today that someone dies of injury without actually coming, that they'll never get on the list of victims. This is a very sensitive issue and it is best to address it with a public debate and a legislative framework. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23973	Thank you very much. The next one will speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the esteemed Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23974	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Nazor, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning I would like to say that the SDP club will support the report on the work of the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War for 2015 because it is extremely content, quality and comprehensive. As we had the chance to hear and in previous debates on behalf of clubs will do the same to other clubs. It is not really a newspaper, the Croatian Memorial-documentation Centre of the Homeland War since the beginning of its existence has also received support from all the governments of the Republic of Croatia but also support in the reports of their work in this Croatian Assembly. The reason is clear, the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War has fully fulfilled its role as a public archival but also scientific research institution with the task of collecting, fixing, preserving, professional and scientific research and publishing materials from the Homeland War. In addition to this thesis are very precisely shown quantities among other collected, conventional materials, not conventional material, positive photos, digital photographs, digital maps and memory material. We also see that it continues to digitise documents that in 2015, as reported in the report itself, about 180 thousand and 500 pages of documents have been digitized. We consider it extremely important, so we can even say commendable to continue working on the project direct demographic losses of the Republic of Croatia in the Homeland War, and to update the list of dead defenders and civilians in the free area of the Republic of Croatia during the Homeland War, but also the fact that during 2015, the centre took over from the Ministry of Interior material so-called. Republika Srpska Krajina for the period 1991 to 1998 and partially digitised it while the rest of it was built in the digitisation process. We can also see that the library structure itself, or that it is in proportion to individuals and institutions, is in some way enriched by additional library buildings. We also think that the centre is still investing in scientific research to participate in the organisation and implementation of scientific and professional gatherings, lectures, exhibitions with the topic of the Homeland War. We also feel the same way that the scientific and professional works of the employees of the centre are published and that the employees of the centre are further professional and scientific training. It is also positive that, in financial terms, the centre of 2015 ended up with an excess of expenditure of 453 280 kuna, revenues and even original revenues are higher than those in 2014. What I must say from the aspect of a person who follows a considerable area of education and education policies is the preparation and participation of the centre in the preparation of a lecture on Homeland War for students in schools in the Republic of Croatia. That's okay, but we think that might not be enough. Mr. Nazor and I have had the honor of participating together in the work of the Governing Council for some 3 years seems to me to be a public institution, the Memorial center of the Homeland War, and in 3 years we have a beautiful example of a positive story project visit to 8 classes Vukovar. The aim of this project is to teach all students of 8th grade through two-day visits to Vukovar in a different way about the values of the Homeland War and the battles for Vukovar. The visit itself is not dry, it includes giving a lecture on the Homeland War according to the teaching program subject to history for 8 classes, a tour of all places of memories related to the Homeland War, transmission of message of peace, acceptance of diversity and compassion through the school of peace and workshops. Two years of implementation of the pilot project has shown the exceptional interest of our students in this kind of teaching, and I believe that the accommodation capacity will soon be ensured as soon as possible in order to turn this pilot project into a serious project. Why am I saying this? I am saying this because last year when we discussed the report of the Centre for 2014 we gave one initiative so that perhaps you should consider creating interactive materials that you as a center might be able to refresh the teaching of history in schools and the material of the Homeland War could be shown to students in a much more vivid, much more picturesque and understandable way to students. At the very end here is with a year of delay almost but I will use to congratulate you on the tenth anniversary of your work and existence that you celebrated at the end of 2015. I also use the opportunity to congratulate, on behalf of the club, your work so far and the contribution that you have given in a professional and scientific way not only to collect and preserve but also to identify and display true historical facts related to the homeland war. To explore, prove, protect, and spread the truth is sometimes more important and demanding than the mere emotional consciousness of an individual or a group about its existence. That's exactly what the center was doing. By collecting documents, he established and preserved the truth, kept and kept a memory of the Homeland War, he published it with various instruments, published it, and thus made it available throughout the professional but also to his interested and other public. To live and transmit the truth for generations, strong cooperation with the educational system is needed in order for students to understand the truth from one side in their harm, violence and suffering, and on the other hand in defence, victory, freedom, dignity and peace should be brought closer to the students in a way that they can be cut into their memory. And I think that in the next 10 years of your existence you can make a remarkable contribution precisely to the preservation of this truth and to the greater and stronger integration of your work with the educational institutions in the Republic of Croatia. Here on that trail again, we will support the report on the work of the center for 2015.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23975	Thank you. We move to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the distinguished representative Irena Petrijevcanin-Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23976	I forgot how it goes, I apologize to the esteemed vice president, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected director of the role and importance of the centre we've already heard and I can also only praise this report and, of course, your work and, of course, add that the report that I've been following so far has always received unanimous support from all the club representatives and has received unanimous support from all governments. But what's really important to me today is something that was up-to-date a month ago, so today's an opportunity to talk about it. We can also ask ourselves a question actually and the question is very important, how much are we as a society aware of the importance of guarding the historical building? Here we have heard from previous discussions, all stress the importance of guarding the historical building, the importance of truth, the importance of facts. 02A we see from the last events that, therefore, mentioning the role of the center how important it is. And when the Croatian state was created, we couldn't even imagine that, let's say a few years later, certain insinuations would appear and after some time there would be different interpretations without saying construction. That the facts will be distorted, that the facts will be ignored, that public and media will thus spread various insinuations. And we remember on November 12, 2012, so it was a liberating verdict, the Hague verdict to Croatian Generals Anti Gotovina and Mladen Markac. And that judgment, on the one hand, meant the end of, of course, their suffering and the suffering of their families. But on the other hand, it also meant final confirmation that Croatia, therefore, is not a criminal enterprise first, and secondly, that Croatia was not created on a crime that could have been read in certain documents. And we know that history is not written on the basis of judgments, but judgments would have to be based on truth and historical facts, and that is, of course, the role of the center. But we're witnesses here we see from day to day and back a few months that the facts are often distorted. And so we need to ask ourselves how important we are to safeguard the historical building. And I think we need to be very aware of the importance of the center, because when various interpretations occur, then it's time to take out the evidence on the table and then it's time to take out the documents on the table. Because we live in time can say, unfortunately, or fortunately, how to take. When one word of a politician has a greater echo in the public than sometimes I don't know hundreds of documents. But the truth finally strikes again the last thing they say in the people. I'd just go for these recent arrests because now's a chance for you to be here for this pay phone and the public is pretty interested in it and I've talked to some people to say some facts. So these recent arrests have raised various issues and various interpretations. And now that the theme here is the report of the center, of course it's not directly related, but it's very important because it also concerns the detour center. Why does it matter? Well, that's why it's important to say, because one part of the misunderstanding in the public, and especially in the media, it appeared precisely because of insufficiently I would say the underexplained powers of the centre regarding the entry of documents into the centre. What's clear, two things are clear. At first, it is clear that the documents of the centre were not given without let's say the approval of the competent authorities, that's a fact. And the second fact is that the BiH prosecutor's office, so the centre was based on some documents, so we either go tell the deal that existed. But there's a third thing that's not clear, but it's in public, so it's caused the biggest kind of confusion, let's just say so. I watched your visit on one television exactly a month ago and you said that after you received the tip you had prevented, you organised the first meeting with the minister then, and then you stopped further cooperation and distribution of these documents, further co-operation with the BiH prosecution. And now we can assume, you as the director of the Centre certainly don't say something lightly and your words have weight and it's logical to impose that question, so for the sake of our citizens it's important and I say it's important that we say it again here and let's put that thing on the ad act. The logical question is therefore how many of these documents at the centre, these HVO documents ended outside Croatia before the centre existed. That part of the question is none of your business, and it's not in your jurisdiction. But the other part of the question is how far did the center go, it's kind of in your jurisdiction and not just in some way. And I'm saying, even though this isn't a fundamental topic today, but I think these issues are very important and very important. It concerns the first part of the center, the facts and the truth, and the things that create various insinuations. And that's why I would kindly ask you that when you have the opportunity and answer, so the public will be clearer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23977	Thank you. We have one replica of the esteemed Vesna Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23978	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Director Dr. Nazor. I need to briefly just look back at the first part of my colleague's presentation. In order to demonstrate the truthfulness of the facts, therefore, and events in the Homeland War, and here I have the need to highlight another very important aspect of the action of the Homeland War Documentation Centre. In fact, with a rather modest, therefore an annual amount of money that at one level, at the last level was some 3 million 170 and some thousand kuna and with a fairly stable financial business with a growth trend, therefore its own income, which is not negligible and relatively small number of 18 employees in the 10 years of work, what I find extremely important in the work of the centre is exactly the establishment of this department of scientific research activity which here in the 10 years of work has now, if I have seen well 5 doctors of science who have gained the conditions of choice in the scientific calling of scientific associates which the centre does not only have the character of an archival institution specialised for this type of building already goes a step further. The centre is also a scientific research facility whose employees are not only working on collecting and archiving, meaning all of these materials that were involved, but are working on their interpretation. And I think of it as one of the most important things, so an interpretation based on scientific data, scientific facts, and which will then give an objective picture of the events of the Homeland War and all that followed without any tendencies of revisionism or such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23979	Thank you very much. The respected Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23980	Well esteemed colleagues are certainly important to the centre and we have listened to it in previous discussions, but I would say that the real importance of the centre will only be seen for decades later because the facts while the French may still be under certain emotions, structures, insinuations etc., but those rights when they disintegrate this deposit then become clearer and so that the truth about the Homeland War is already undeniable, but our future generations will have the opportunity to learn a lot from the center, the documents will be available, the list of dead and the missing will be complete and the real importance of the centre will be seen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23981	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the esteemed Željko Raguža. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23982	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Nazor. After these words of praise about the Croatian Memorial and documentation centre of the Homeland War, which clearly stand because it is due to the workers of the centre and Mr. Nazor, I will also remind in my debate some of the real facts of which we should not run away but should realistically consider them in order to more objectively value the legacy of the Homeland War, but also the consequences of the Homeland War in contemporary political life, both the Republic of BiH and BiH. It is important to point out that the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War in Zagreb was founded in 2005. The Croatian National War Documentary Centre in Mostar was founded in 2013, thanks to the support of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War of Zagreb and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia when Mr Matic was present here as minister of defence in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Why am I pointing this out? I point out that in the political life of the Republic of Croatia, unfortunately after 2000, the legacy of the Homeland War was an area where, unlike other peoples and states, the legacy of the Homeland War was not used in such a way that it was the subject of mutual accusation and disqualification of other parties and parties in the political life of the Republic of Croatia. After 2000, the legacy of the Homeland War was used by other parties in charges against HDZ for the departure of the Serb population to the Liberation Operation Storm or as claimed by members of other parties, the persecution of the Serb population in the Republic of Croatia or the legacy of the Homeland War was used to accuse the Republic of Croatia of aggression against BiH. These facts have been used and abused by other sides in BiH and neighbouring countries of the Republic of Croatia towards the Republic of Croatia, and in particular those facts have been abused when it comes to BiH Croats. Other peoples, therefore, have been established in Belgrade by the War Crimes Research Committee in 1992. Serbs in BiH are founded the Republic Centre for War Crimes Research also in 1992. Bosniaks founded the Institute for War Crimes Research in Sarajevo in 1992. The capacity of these institutions in Banja Luka and Sarajevo when it comes to the structure of the employed, scientific level and the number of employees and their opportunities surpasses the organisational resources of the Croatian Memorial and documentary centre of the Homeland War in Zagreb, as well as the possibilities of the Croatian Documentation Centre in Mostar. Why is that? We need to be realistic and say that the political structures of the Republic of Croatia have underestimated the value of the legacy of the Homeland War, with all these abuses I mentioned. What are the consequences of today's political life of the Republic of Croatia and BiH? Inconspicuous, negative and permanent. What is important when it comes to these negative consequences? There are four judicial rulings at the International Criminal Court in The Hague, in which the Republic of Croatia has been cited as the responsible party in the international conflict or conflict in BiH. Of the Bosniak political structures, this fact of these four judicial verdicts passed and in the first-degree verdict of The Hague Six, or Prlic and others as it is called, is used as a key argument for disqualification of the Republic of Croatia and today's contemporary... The Republic of Croatia is helping on BiH's European path. In public, the Republic of Croatia does not have one realistic view of the dangers of these consequences, and there is no understanding why there is resistance to a well-intentioned engagement and support of the Republic of Croatia to BiH's European efforts. It is precisely because the legacy of the Homeland War seeks to abuse the Republic of Croatia to disqualify itself and prevent it from seeking to help realise the equality of the Croatian people in BiH. It is therefore important to highlight the need to expand the capacities of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War in Zagreb. The Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia has therefore given the work of the Croatian Documentation Centre of the Homeland War in Mostar for the past three years, i.e. the support of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre from Zagreb to the documentary centre in Mostar. But what is crucial is to point out that in the political public of the Republic of Croatia, the legacy of the Homeland War must no longer be subject to abuse because the lasting consequences of these other negative processes from the previous period and because we are expected to be uncertain with the outcome of the second-degree verdict in the case of Prlic and others. It is also important to point out because of the lack of recognition of the legacy of the Homeland War in the public of the Republic of Croatia, the media isolation of this issue, that in the past ten years, the Republic of Croatia has made a strategic mistake and a strategic mistake in the matter of which, unfortunately, it has valued the political correctness of Bosnia and Herzegovina in its contemporary political life in Bosnia and Herzegovina. What's this about?- I'm sorry. Under the influence of the international community, the Republic of Croatia preferred the Bosniak side's views when they were founded and when there was abuse from the Bosniak side towards political life and other sides in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Republic of Croatia disqualified the Serbian side in Bosnia and Herzegovina when it came to the arguments and when it was not for the arguments. The Republic of Croatia has unfortunately distanced itself from the reality of Bosnia and Herzegovina since 2000 when the position of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina is at stake. These three facts are particularly abused by Bosniak structures in Bosnia and Herzegovina and will remain if the Republic of Croatia's relationship to the reality of Bosnia and Herzegovina does not change one permanent blockade as part of the Croatian people's efforts to achieve equality with Bosniaks and Serbs. It is known that the Serbian side in Bosnia and Herzegovina has committed a number of crimes, but it is not known and is trying to isolate it from the public in the Republic of Croatia, it is not known about the loss of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is not known about the extent of this loss or... of the suffering because today in political life the vital Bosniak interest of the Croatian people that Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina do not have their own radio television, so it cannot be talked about all this. It is not known that 529 thousand non-Bosnians have been expelled from the area under the supervision of the Bosniak army, the Bosnia and Herzegovina army in the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 586 thousand non-Serbs were also expelled from the area under the supervision of the Republika Srpska Army, under the supervision of the Croatian Defence Council, 52,000. It is not known, it is important to stress that Bosnia and Herzegovina's army has expelled the Croatian population seven times more than the Croatian Defence Council has expelled the Bosniak population. In particular, these facts of the Croatian people's suffering in the area of Posavina, in the area of the Banja Luka region, should remain a permanent obligation for the political public in Bosnia and Herzegovina to resuscitate the effects of the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina and to approach Bosnia and Herzegovina in a more realistic way.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23983	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He is the first to represent Predrag Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23984	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Raguž, thank you very much for bringing this up today. But here I am only going to thank all my colleagues and colleagues for what you said today, and I hope you won't have a problem, but you're a brave and honorable man and you're not and you won't be afraid of it. So, I'll just remind you historically, for me it was a joyous moment when Mr. Raguž and Šoljic came to the Ministry of Defence with the idea that finally Croatians in 2013, remember this: in 2013, institutions of an institution that could mate with institutions that Bosniak people and Serbian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina had meant 15 years, 20 years almost before Croatians. I was of course happy because given the function I was able to help you and I want your centre to work just as successfully as it does the Memorial-documentation centre here in Croatia, here in Zagreb, which runs Dr. Nazor and I am sure and again express my satisfaction and joy that in this case there is no politics that this set of the Ministry of Defence also recognized the importance of the role of the Memorial-documentation centre in Mostar and which continues to give him support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23985	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23986	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Ragug, in your presentation, I noticed a few things, so I'd like to comment on that a little bit. You say they were founded before memorial centers, I don't know what in Serbia, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, they may be, but everything I can write about war we write the truth, they write a lie. That's two different things. I thank Mr. Nazor for everything he's done so far, and I really believe it's done a lot, which is rarely what the institutions have done that she did and followed our war and our deaths, and I thank him very much. You mentioned the exiled Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina 526 thousand, if I understand correctly. We know, one thing we need to know is that the Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina, I will ask again the question of the Croats of Posavina, and all the Bosnian Herzegovina Croats, voted for Bosnia and Herzegovina when there was separation from Yugoslavia. These people were expelled and they advocated Bosnia and Herzegovina as opposed to Serbs who did not support Croatia as a state, so they were expelled because I also want those same people back in Croatia but these are two big differences. Do not wish for Croatia and to wish for BiH and be expelled from BiH, and you cannot go back to this day. Again, I ask the question of both politics and Croatia and BiH 140 thousand people cannot return for what they wanted, wanted to live in BiH. We know that Dayton made the Serbian Republic, we have to accept that fact as it is, but we don't have to accept that they don't have to bring people back to their hearth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23987	The next replica is appreciated. And you haven't heard from your colleague for an answer. All right, come on, I mean in Parliament, you should behave properly, if a man answers for an answer, then answer for the answer. But go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23988	I'm sorry, I was wrong. It is important to highlight the key, strategic mistake of the International Community under the influence of US policy that BiH is identified with the Bosniak side in BiH and three people live in BiH, alongside Bosniaks and Serbs and Croats. And all the consequences of BiH's conflict, which seek to manifest itself often manipulatively in a way that does not correspond to the actual facts, is the consequence of this ambition so that BiH's future can be identified with the political perspective of BiH as the Bosniaks imagine it. Not to any people, therefore, not to the Serbs, nor to the Bosniaks, nor to the Croats should either be attributed to a relationship to BiH that was sincere and that they wanted one another, but to other peoples in my opinion should simply in one correct way imply that they have their own interests, their views in more ethical countries that need to be coordinated in order to compromise and how to build the future in BiH. When I said that the Serb side in BiH was disqualified, I did not, of course, think that it should defend what was negatively manifested during the war in BiH, but I stressed that the disqualification of the Serbian side in BiH also limits the engagement of the Republic of Croatia when it comes to helping Croats in BiH in particular in the area of Posavina and the Banja Luka region. And when it comes to a correct attitude towards Serbs in Croatia or the Serb minority in Croatia. This contradiction in the relations I spoke of the Republic of Croatia when it prefers the Bosniak side has these negative consequences for both the Croatians in the area of the Banja Luka region and Posavina and in general BiH and the prospects of BiH in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23989	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed Steve Cule. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23990	Dear Vice President, as far as Bosnian Posavina is concerned, especially from Ostrtr Luka, Domaljevac, Orasja, where they are under the command of our Honorary General Đura Matuzovic and his friends, especially the special police force of Orasje, who have left their lives on the first lines of Obudovac, Pelagic, Vidovic and Grebnica. I can't help but mention my fellow fighters who were born from the Bosnian Posavina who had to resign in our units in order to go to do their sacred duty. Today, when we look from this perspective with a span of twenty-five years, we cannot help but notice the injustice that has been committed against our Posiovacs, our generals, our fellow Bosnian Posavina fighters who have been unjustly accused and selectively of their country in which they live in co-operation with other peoples, especially those who have defended themselves in Posavina against the same enemy from the Serbs, Obudovac, Pelagic and... The Krajina and the Muslims were. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I can tell you that I was a witness there when our... When the MiG went down, it submerged, when they brought our wounded and our dead from the first line of the sharp port. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today, if you went to the first line in Ostla Luka, which is no longer the first line, you would see a large cemetery that stands out and on it as if it were the choice for the youngest dead, all youngsters from 16 to more. So we owe it to our Posavina and the truth about the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23991	Thank you. They will respond to the esteemed colleague Ragug.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23992	When it comes to the legacy of the Homeland War, the media space of the Republic of Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina is covered by numerous stereotypes and myths that simply disqualify an objective view of the effects of the war in BiH. When Posavina is one of the myths created, which remained as a lasting weight in relations and within BiH between parts of the Croatian people, say Bosnia, Posavina, Herzegovina is a myth about the betrayal of Posavina. Documents, facts, diplomatic sources of international level show that since then, Bosniak leadership has been taking the initiative towards international structures to impose sanctions if a small part of the volunteers from the Republic of Croatia who were present at the time did not withdraw from Posavina and, unfortunately, with the technical and numerous power of the Serbian side in the Posavina area conditionaled on the fall of Posavina. It is therefore worth lighting all the dark pages through the activities of the Croatian Memorial-Documentation Centre in order to remain as few stereotypes and myths in political life as possible, both the Republic of Croatia and the BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23993	Thank you very much. The next debate will be her esteemed Zdravko Ronk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23994	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament of course, I would not repeat myself as my club has been subordinated to support the work of the Croatian Memorial-documentation centre in terms of preserving memory and raising awareness of the values of the Homeland War. I also support a greater presence and a constant presence and topics in school institutions as well as greater cooperation and interaction between the centre and local self-government units, as well as in terms of the financial link. The Croatian Memorial-documentation centre has done very much to collect, arrange and protect archive buildings from the Homeland War to serve various institutions of law enforcement teams, in publishing activities, organise lectures, professional and scientific gatherings, exhibitions, updates, lists of dead defenders and civilians in the Homeland War and presentation through public stands, assemblies, through daily newspapers, magazines, radio and television. They should be congratulated on that, but they should be thanked. They still have a lot of work to do, and it is my assessment that there is a need and a hasty to take as much of that away as possible from the flow of time itself. I also said this when considering the 2014 report when I was saddened by the information that was published that the Croatian Memorial Documentation Center made only 10 thousand donations that year, and therefore I invited those who have money and who so patrioticly donate political parties to show up and at least in the same proportion donate the Croatian Memorial centre. And here's this center in 2015 got as much as 26 150 kuna donations, which is a good result at first sight because it's compared to 2014. 150%. However, when these patriotic 26 thousand kuna donations are compared to 2.5 million patriot donations to HDZ, which is only 1%, then you're saddened again in some way, and when you see that these funds coming from the state budget through the Ministry of Culture are constantly at the border below 3 million and that the quality of the archive space solution is not yet in sight. If we have to hurry, we still have a lot of work to do, I think there's a lot more to be done in this field. So with congratulations and thanks and encouragement to those who can and have as well as those who decide on money incentives to support all these efforts of the Croatian Memorial and documentary centre in the field of memory storage and awareness raising about the values of the Homeland War. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23995	Thank you very much. The next individual application is that of the distinguished representative, God Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23996	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues after the report, therefore oral and even more so on the basis of the material presented by the Croatian Documentation Centre of the Homeland War and after these discussions, it is actually difficult to add something new. I can say, of course, that I support and support the report of the Croatian Documentation Centre of the Homeland War, although if it were asked of me, I would be talking about the defensive Homeland War because today here are 20 and a few years after the Homeland War we know who was the aggressor and who defended himself, however, for 50, 100 years, maybe someone will ask about it. But that's the least we should do at this point, which we should do. What I want to point out here is that it is necessary to give credit to the documentation centre for documenting the truth about the Homeland War. However, what we lack here and in Croatia, and of course in the BIH, is the disseminating of the truth about the Homeland War, and it is not only the role of the documentary centre but it is also the role of the media, publishing activities, film production, diplomacy, etc. Unfortunately, I have to find out that we are here to say the informative diplomatic game if you want both promiscuous and lost because others have gone much earlier and much more systematically in this direction and we have said naively we think we are defending ourselves, we represent the right thing, some things are only understandable in themselves and as we can see they are not, we do not see by the perception created and created for years and in the international community, unfortunately encouraged by the internal plan in the Republic of... Croatia in the war in the BIH in an aggressive sense, etc. etc. So, unfortunately this is not just about perception, it is actually about this perception having its own material and legal consequences, so we saw them here are colleagues Raguž said four valid verdicts in which Croatia was in one way or another declared involved in the war in the BIH. Those are the verdicts to remind General Blaskovic, Dari Kordić and others. And of course what is before us is therefore a second-degree verdict of six in The Hague known as “Prlić and the others” where Croatia is also mentioned in... President Tudjman, Minister Gok Šushko. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So these are the things that really need to be changed and it's not too late with these things changing. Of course, the consequences of all this we feel today and in Croatia because Croatia is being stegmatized, even by our neighbours in current political processes and in the region and beyond, but on the other hand, we feel even more strongly the consequences of Croatians in Bosnia and Herzegovina because it strives to model Bosnia and Herzegovina on the basis of these manipulations and Stigmatizations which are, therefore, the consequences of the distortion of the truth about the Homeland War. Unfortunately, there is insufficient recognition here in Croatia, and even here will often be heard about the Croatian community Herceg Bosnia, the Croatian Republic of Herceg Bosnia as a couple of states, and even as a criminal form. However, the truth is forgotten that the Croatian community of Herceg Bosnia was founded on 18 November 1991 and before the war broke out. But when? Once established in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the autonomous powers of Serbs and after the Bosniak authorities, the central government in Sarajevo did not find a way to respond to this. On the other hand, it is forgotten here that in Bosnia and Herzegovina almost a year before the establishment of the Croatian Defence Council, which took place on 8 April '92. A Bosniak Patriotic League, then transformed into an army, is perceived as a defence force in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is forgotten that after the attack on Sarajevo, the siege of Sarajevo was in April of '92. Bosnia and Herzegovina's presidency ruled that the HVO and territorial defence were then called, the BiH Army later defence forces Bosnia and Herzegovina. So these are all things that are forgotten, and then it's no wonder that we're exposed to these manipulations and Stigmatizations and that it has these consequences. On the other hand, the fact is forgotten that nearly 99% of Croats voted in a referendum on Bosnia and Herzegovina's independence for Bosnia and Herzegovina. The highest percentage that Serbian politics in Bosnia and Herzegovina at the time did not want any Bosnia and Herzegovina at all, i.e. within the framework of the Yugoslav cross. It is forgotten that the Croats then voted for Bosnia and Herzegovina, but asked to be federally formed as we are today looking for legitimate representatives of Croats gathered around the Croatian National Assembly. It is forgotten that the Croats first supported the plan of the International Community for the Design of Bosnia and Herzegovina known as the '92 Karington Kutier plan. He was also supported by all parties in Lisbon, and after returning to Bosnia and Herzegovina, Ali Izetbegovic gave up on that plan. Therefore, it is forgotten that the Croats first supported Owen Stoltenberg's plan and the Washington Agreement, and that, in accordance with the agreement of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Army or the authorities of the Republic and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the authorities of the Republic of Croatia, the Agreement on the Liberation of Parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been concluded which created the conditions for the conclusion and peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Dayton Peace Agreement. Furthermore, we are not working enough to disminimise the truth about the Homeland War and the fact that the Homeland War is one unique, that Croatia has defended itself in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as in Croatia. If HVO soldiers had defended Croatia, that these facts were known enough and perceived enough then we would not have heard yesterday here and the last days that, not yesterday but a few days ago when we talked about the budget that this is where we are concerned that in the new single Law on the defenders of the Republic of Croatia and members of the HVO, they will be statusally resolved and covered. So I'm convinced that people know the real truth so they don't act that way. There is much to know here in Croatia about the crimes of others in Bosnia and Herzegovina, about crimes where Croats are victims at least, there is some information about the Croatians' injuries on Republika Srpska's territory where they died along with Bosniaks. Unfortunately, very little is known in the areas of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina today and in the crimes in Croatia. So, who here in Croatia today, does anyone know of the site Uborak and Sutina where 114 Croats and Bosniaks at the beginning of the war were massacred and thrown at the dump at Mostar by a Serb-Montenegro aggressor who was then ordered by Momcilo Perisic who was not even tried for it. How much is known here about the Doljan crime where 38 civilians and soldiers were killed, soldiers unarmed during harvest work by the BiH Army units. As far as the Doljans know about the crime, where 38 civilians and soldiers were killed, soldiers unarmed during harvest work by the BiH Army units. How much is known here today about a September '93 crime in Uzdol. A year where 41 civilians and fewer soldiers were killed. Who knows here today about Križanec village, Buha's houses, Zablja, etc. So in central Bosnia where 74 people were killed. There's a lot of information here about Ahmics, so the crimes committed by members of the HVO, and it's okay to know. Unfortunately, however, there is no known about this, this fact, and then false perceptions are created. Based on false perceptions, it's the wrong conclusion. Of course, who today knows something about the crime of 21 captured members of the HVO in Bugojn, about the ritual decapitations of the heads that are now on television screens we see in the areas of Syria and Iraq occupied by ISIL. So these are all facts that we need to correct once the disminimation of the truth about the Homeland War, and fortunately now we have a quality Documentation Centre here and here in Zagreb and Mostar, which leads my colleague Zeljko Raguž. So, all we need to do is work on... these truths and of course these manipulations do not result in the long-term and permanent effects both for Croatia and for the Croatian people in BiH. The first thing to do now is defend the truth about the Homeland War on the charges of members of the HVO in BiH and the basis of this process in The Hague, six Croats from BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23997	Thank you very much. It's a replica of the esteemed Edge of Muscle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23998	... You said all this nicely, so you mentioned the courts and our people who are in prison, which I also think are probably unfairly condemned to others who have not yet been convicted. I know that the court is political and against Croatian generals is also a political court, so the truth has become known and seen and has been released unfortunately after the years they spent in prison. We are Croats in BiH, of course, always some windstorm where all wars strike us, all of us driving us out of that BiH that we are the first people in BiH, no one has ever been when the Croats lived and had in the end a complete BiH. Today you see what we have, and what we don't have, what others have, what they are and everything has been taken from us Croats, historically. The Croats were during the Austrian wars you're a historian, Nazor, so you know there's only 180 thousand left in BiH so before this war there were about 800 thousand, now somewhere between 400 and 500 thousand. We are a tough people, in the end it is our country and we want and we think we will survive there regardless of all these political games. Secondly, you mentioned the crimes of Muslims in BiH, which I believe and believe is true and we know it is true. But who's to blame for not condemning them? Well, I guess that's us. We were supposed to file these charges and condemn those same people who committed those crimes. Well, we didn't even condemn that in Croatia that happened around Vukovar, we know that well, and then we're talking about someone else. It's our fault. They're '92. what the memorial center founded, and we didn't. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] It's our fault.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u23999	Thank you very much. They will answer the distinguished Bozo Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u24000	I agree with you that we are to blame and, in fact, this debate here today is not to say this professional scientific exercise to analyse the report of the documentation centre, but to do exactly what we have failed to do today. So all these victims that I just listed who were killed either as soldiers or as civilians are Croatian citizens. So the Croatian state itself could launch processes against the perpetrators to sanction it. Not running. Well, because, in fact, in Croatia, very little is known about it. Unfortunately, in one period, there was very little interest. And that is why this arrest of ten of our countrymen from Posavina members of HVO commanders and soldiers who are welcome here in Croatia with great care can ultimately have positive consequences for Croatia to finally wake up and start dealing with these matters in one systematic way. And as for our remainder and survival in BiH, yes, we are massacred in parts of BiH, especially parts that are now occupied by an entity called Republika Srpska, but I believe that we still have enough first will and desire to preserve our right to BiH, that we now have a new consolidation of relations in both BiH and Croatia and the international community under the influence of certain to say the regional world movements that go hand in hand to the Croats in BiH, and Croatia has already set out its path as a member of the EU and NATO, and I am not afraid of Croatia at all at this time is the main strategic goal of maintaining the sustainability and national subjectivity of Croats in BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u24001	Thank you very much. The next replica of the esteemed mistress Maximchuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u24002	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Nazor. At first, I must look back at the fact that I come from the area of our country, which has been affected by the war in the Homeland War, whose problem this center is dealing with. So I must commend the work of this center of course. There will come a time when we who were actors or participants in all of this will not be able to share this story with our younger generations.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u24003	My colleagues, Maksimchuk, you are replicating my colleague Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u24004	Yes, of course. So they'll reach out to the work of this center. However, Mr Ljubic looked back and said he knew very little about the injuries of Croats in BiH, which I agree with. Of course, we are running the controversy here today about the Croatian Memorial and documentation centre and I must say and thank you for the great help provided to our centre in Mostar, but I must also point out that 150 thousand Croats have been expelled from the Bosnian Posavina that we are not talking about Croats in Central Bosnia and all those who cannot even return. And very little is known about the problems and their injuries, as well as the problems of those who have returned and the provocations that live today, and very few in the BiH area. I must also refer to the question of my colleague, Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, who mentioned the recent events and you yourself mentioned here in Orasje. Of course it's a matter that concerns and cares about our people in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u24005	Thank you very much. They will answer the distinguished Bozo Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u24006	In short, I can tell you that I agree with everything that my colleague Maximchuk said. However, what I want to underline here once again is what is the problem of research, suspects, and accusations in BiH, which is also very little to know about. So Bosnia and Herzegovina is now suspected and accused by two laws. One law that was passed during the former state, which did not contain crimes against humanity and which would be milder at the height of the punishment against the accused. A second law passed in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2003 that introduced new qualifications into its articles and which is much more stringent. Unfortunately, at this point, this is where you access it selectively. When it comes to members of the Croatian people and commanders and ordinary soldiers, they are accused, suspected and tried according to this stricter law of 2003, although the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg has ordered that there is no retroactive application of the legislation. On the other hand, when the question is, for example, Bosniaks, members of the Bosniak army, they are solely suspected and tried according to a mild law of the former state. Only a few commanders, so by this stricter law. So these are the things where we have in doing justice injustice. So selective justice is not justice. So these are all things that we need to know about here in Croatia to have a real relationship with these issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u24007	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed Steve Cule. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u24008	Your Honor, Vice President. Offered by Mr. Ljubic, I can't help but recall the houses of Buha you mentioned, I can't help but mention the book of our Bishop Komarica of Banja Luka, which we all had the opportunity to see, I don't know who read it, but what I read inside, those of our Croats, Croats, and others, it's for the twilight zone. I can't help but mention the work of our documentation center whether it's also gathering data from witnesses' testimony in our courts, and related to war crimes. I think there'd be a lot of material and construction here. Well, I can't also mention the testimony of US soldier Colton Perry who was captured along with Croatian soldier Zdravko Filipovic from Soljan in Pelagic and who passed Golgot, so from Pelgic's transfer of helicopters to Belgrade, torture and all that that they survived there, such testimony could come true if all of them came together in one place and all of these experiences were drawn from all these statements. And yet another piece of information that I can never forget in the very end of the war in Orash was trapped on the line of the 20th Borov Village Chetniks who, after the end of the Vukovar occupation, moved with their weapons and troops to our Bosnian Posavina and 20 of them came to Chetnik and continue their pir, so also in Bosnia Posavina, with the help of the former Yugoslav People's Army, which many in our Bosnia and Herzegovina as well as we expected as liberators. But they were occupiers along with these others. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u24009	Thank you. The Answer to the Honorable God of Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u24010	Dear counterpart Culej, the second question concerning the documentary centre, whether it documentes crimes against Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, will probably be said by counterpart Nazor, but I believe in the synergy of these two centres in Zagreb and Mostar so that it will be comprehensively processed. As far as the crimes in Bosnia and Herzegovina are concerned, in general and the character of the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, he is known to us, but since the courts of The Hague were shown, they did not join Bosnia and Herzegovina in the way they should have. So it seems that and it's clear that someone here said that these are political courts, especially in The Hague, it's clear as soon as it's established by the United Nations where there's no second degree, it's clearly a political court. In fact, it is indicative that the Hague rulings, in my opinion, sought absolutely to isolate the top of the former Yugoslavia, the top of the so-called Yugoslav People's Army, the top of Serbia since the wars in Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and even with regard to Vukovar, no one was responsible for the destruction of Vukovar, no one was responsible for destroying Mostar or for this crime on... So these are all things we need to know and to deal with, of course, documentation, politics, diplomacy there must be in synergy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u24011	Thank you. The final presentation on behalf of the HNS Club will be given to the distinguished Milorad Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u24012	Thank you, Vice President, Honorable Director Nazor, colleagues and colleagues. The report, even though it's said in the introduction, is shortened, I think it says more than enough. Of course, we will support the report on the work of the Governing Council of the Centre, but I think that given the circumstances and given the political environment, I am thinking of neighbouring countries, as well as of a certain leap outside the framework of certain politicians of neighbouring countries, it is obvious that certain claims that have been made in history have not ceased, and it is not certain that they will. I believe that, we are also informed about the opening of negotiations on the opening of certain chapters of the neighbouring country and I believe that in the coming periods, they will try to justify themselves by twisting the facts and, primarily, on the basis of the Homeland War. Therefore, we in the HNS believe that this work that you are doing should continue even more intensively, and I believe that they are now visible, and we remember from previous years, from the 2013 report when you formed and the scientific research part. I think this area needs to be intensified. And I'm also bringing that into context and with that part of the budget at your disposal which I don't think is enough. So here's an appeal to you, Director, I believe you've already considered it. In the coming years, we should certainly step up the budget. Let's be realistic and objective 3 million kunas, here somewhere that's three, let's say a week of Lux class BMW. So I ask you colleagues and colleagues, I believe we all ask ourselves together whether it's the price of the truth about the Homeland War because that truth isn't just truth, facts, facts, historical segment. Have we ever wondered whether this is part of the protection of national interests and how important and important it is. We're in the Balkans. We're looking at what's going on in the political sense, politically or as we like, so there aren't any too many policies to be offended by the neighbouring countries. We're looking at Serbia, watching what's going on in Bosnia. What's going to happen in the other components, the divisions of the former Yugoslavia, we still don't know that. So the Balkans have now settled down, so I think you should continue with your work even more intensively, bring together young experts, young people, I think the budget, that this is not a subject that should be at all controversial and questionable because truth has no price and the search for truth is what you know best and we who have had the opportunity to participate in certain works of such a type of truth when you start researching once you never stop. Homeland war, I don't think it's enough to talk about it protectively in terms of declaration, but that's what we need to do by example. And this is the first line of defence and sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, the protection of national interests through this. That's why I trust the Director that you'll be in demands, plans, far-reaching ambitions. In any case, I say, in 2013, assumptions were made for scientific research, for better publication, presentation because our future generations, future Croatian citizens who are still unborn, who will be born must know the whole truth about one segment of the history of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u24013	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the esteemed Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u24014	Mr. Vice President. I agree with what you said about the importance of exploring the truth and the Homeland War. However, I do not agree with the qualification that you said we were in the Balkans. Croatia has never been to the Balkans and is never the Balkans, it came to the Balkans in the 11th month of 2000, and precisely because of this policy that wanted to push us into the Balkans, we have had a stalemate in investigating the Homeland War and these indictments where we have all been together and as a nation and as a state lost time. And I don't think it's personal to you right now, but to one policy and one message that this term of the Balkans and the Western Balkans, which includes Croatia, should be expelled and simply said if we are already regionally positioning either Southeast Europe or the Central European country and the Mediterranean country.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u24015	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Milorad Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u24016	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Tudjman, we agree, so my qualification of the Balkans was in a political context. So not geographically, of course we know very well where Croatia is geographically, but our borders must, you know very well, I don't need to tell you because you have done a number of jobs that are related to both national security and research. So in a political context, it is not a problem for Croatia, it is not a problem for Croatian politics, but the problems are the policies and policies of certain politicians of neighbouring countries. There was a question of the Balkans in this context.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u24017	The final presentation will be held by the Honorable Director of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War, Dr. Ante Nazor.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u24018	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I thank all the speakers, all the clubs at the support and not only this time but also in these 10 years of work center and thank you for the suggestions for improvement. I recorded what you said so I could answer you, don't mind if I skip something, I don't have glasses, but I was trying to record what's most important, so I'm going to go in a row. Here we talked about some things that the Croatian public does not know, which are not represented in the media, so I would remind everyone at first, and I would ask all of us together how much we know about the death of Croats is said in Vojvodina, they also like to say in Srijem, Banat and Backo in the '90s during the Homeland War. How much do we know about the data that at least 30,000 Croats from that area have been expelled, that at least 26 Croats have been killed, that 27 villages were ethnically cleaned to the point where there are almost no Croats or very few more compared to the '91 census. And there was no war there? Our sin, for two years now, I promise the people of the community of expelled Croats that we will agree on a convention of papers, we have material, but it is always a state of emergency, unfortunately we are always in some processes, and here are the 16th meeting in Osijek and we will probably agree on the dynamics of the publication of this Chamber so that the Croatian public is familiar with the loss of Croats and Srijem, Backa and Banat during the Homeland War. We missed a lot both as a state and as a policy for objective and subjective reasons. And today is not too late for me to think of the documents we have so-called. Republika Srpska Krajina, which speak very clearly about the robbery of Croatian spaces. Here is only one document from the oil industry Krajina 14 million tonnes of crude oil transferred to Pancheva, Croatian oil stolen. These are a series of documents related to the forest, to the economy. So because we can put out an account for those exact things? There were speeches about the census, and the fact is that in all our lists, from defenders to dead, we don't have a national background. And we are constantly dealing with some percentages, we have a report from the late President Tudjman talking about the participation of national minorities in the defence of Croatia. I don't think that's the problem, either, even though it takes a while to sit next to the 91st census, each of us has made a national declaration and at least for the dead if not for all defenders to put those lines and even professional equipment, etc. Let's see who defended this Croatia. It can be done but we don't have access to the 91st-year-old list. And I repeat, these numbers that I said today are not final, here the gentleman from the Living Wall mentioned and talked about possible lists, of course we also made parallel tables to check, for example, indirect losses where the disease was mentioned, natural death and it was during the war and we can't bring her into direct contact we'll check. That's, say, 284. Or one particular plate is members of the Yugoslav People's Army at the beginning of the war that were mixed together. You have very interesting data in the 9th Corps when you look at the deaths of people who are, like, Muslims and Albanians. And most of the time, it's an accident. This is one Corps in which one of the commanders of the headquarters was General Mladic who is now being tried for genocide and conquest in the BiH but not for crimes in Croatia. The Hague Court and the International Court of Justice are mentioned here, I will remind you that the International Court of Justice has made a decision in Article 426 on the responsibility of the leadership of Serbia and Serbs in Croatia to attempt to create an ethnically homogeneous area. But when we look at the verdicts of the very questionable expertise of the people who are working, I have to say, as a historian, I don't want to go out but this ad hoc tribunal, the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, has made a number of, many judgments that or decisions on the rulings that are in the thick collegiate with facts. Here I am talking about Mladic, you were talking about the JNA military summit, so he wasn't convicted of destroying Vukovar either. He had an absurd situation resulting from the work of such a court, that we today have a first-degree verdict of six Croats for a joint criminal enterprise against the BIH and the fact that the army of BIH and HVO were from 92 to 95, with that unfortunate phase of conflict that they were allies. And Serbia, whose general, means that he is not only a general of the Republika Srpska armies, will not be convinced that he has worked outside the authority and not in agreement with Belgrade. Today, she is not charged with a joint criminal enterprise, she has neither admitted to the BiH nor defended by the BiH, defended by Croats and Muslims, defended by the BiH Army, HVO and HV, and today Croatia is on the defendant's purchase and the verdict of all the verdicts will be her in a year's time for six Croats. This is vital not only for Croats in BIH but also for Croatia and Croatia in general. And here you mentioned the media, unfortunately it is true we do not have an objective picture of what was happening in these areas of Croatia and BIH in the 1990s. You mentioned here Mr. Ljubic a series of crimes against the Croats in BIH. Does either of us know what happened in Brishevo in 92 at the Prijedor area where there was no doubt a genocide whatever the lawyers said about it. When we look at all those statements, the injuries, and the extent of Croatians and Bosniaks' injuries in that area. That's not what you're talking about. We know about Ahmić, I knew about the Stupni dol myself last year and we should know about all those wicked actions committed by some members of the Croatian forces, but we keep saying that it is possible that we in Croatia will not be able to list these places that you mentioned, not Buhi's houses, Križanče's village, not Stipić, Poljana, not Doljana, not Grabovica, not Uborak, etc. etc. That's why we're talking about the media and something that's not good. I'm sorry to say this, but I was watching the 8th 12th Assembly session here and there was talk of the death of that unfortunate little girl, Alexandra Rabbit. I must warn the circumstances the editor of the TV calendar has been attacked and I do not believe that many of those who attack him have read the full text that was written. And to insisting on his and the author of that text that day was news because they wanted to remind the Croatian public that some Croats committed such a heinous crime. But then there were attacks from a sentence that may have been awkwardly said that it was pre-remended and that remains in the shadow of the remaining murders. But find me another word to explain the fact that indeed in Croatia many do not know of any other family that has died except for that unfortunate girl, mother and murdered father. Neither Cengici, nor Jurici, the Spoljaric family, a three-month-old child, sisters aged 17 and 18, do they not deserve it? And how far these go, I don't know how to call them such projections in the media, and then some books are written about it. I'm just going to tell you that in the book that recently came out... behind it Southeast Europe is happening, and our historians were involved in making these readings, but none that deals with the modern period, so that's an interesting question. There in the chronology of events in Croatia of 20 thousand, at least 20 thousand families and names are only the name of one family that was killed in 7:12.1991. To this end, we have been led to an effort to exploit such a tragic event in the media. I here quote the words in the article published by the journalist Vecernji list on the same day as the TV calendar. No one looked back on that, and she actually said the same thing that was said in that calendar. One other time we'll talk about this reader, but trust me, those foreigners who will read it won't understand anything about Croatia. They will be able to read there that in September, the killings of Serbs in Sisak began. And the first killings of Croats will be in the November month related to Vukovar and Skabrnj. No July of the month, Banovina, no August of Slavonia. Who did it, and why did he do it like that? There is no second May, there is no slaughter of 13 Croatian police officers in '91. year and how a stranger will understand what happens in Croatia if one such fact is avoided that 13 officers, 12 in Borovo Selo, one in the back of Zadar were killed in one day in Croatia. There's no name, of course. No name of Boris Jovic, he's a police officer, and always the first victim was named, and later the numbers went, etc. etc. that I am not burdening you with this now, although this House will have to consider how and who on behalf of Croatia is talking about modern history. Because this reading is full of factographic data, they're being corrected, but this all else seems to me to be trendy, at least it's superficial, creamy, and it's actually embarrassing how it's shown. Gentlemen of the Living Wall we know the number of wounded is about 31,000 wounded in the Homeland War thanks to research by the Ministry of Health, or a book published by the Minister of Health Mr. Andrija Hebrang. It's very important, here's what I wanted to say is the same perception that's being created by a very publicist approach, not a scientific approach. So we have to read things completely. That's why I said when we look at that display in the calendar it's very clear that it's a shame, that it's a disgrace to the Croatian judiciary, it's called murderers. It's a very clear text if you want to read it completely. The truth is here I accept Mrs. Voter's remarks and thank her for her congratulations. Maybe it's missing for this time of technology interactive material. We had two conversations with certain people. One was supposed to be a project that would go through the Ministry of Defense where we planned exactly such interactive ones, first of all, exhibitions that could be held today. It's up to us to secure the data, then informers that they're decorated and put together in an acceptable way. Of course, there should also be educators who will bless it all. The truth is, we're often in schools. I was supposed to go to Oroslavlje for a class today, so I got information that I was at the Parliament. And we'll try to do it. Praise is a valuable project that was launched and the government passed and before that was planned, but it was realized during the pre-government and today it is going to take place, and that is that all eight of Croatia will have the opportunity to get the most basic information about the Homeland War in Vukovar. It just shows that the Homeland War is not party, it is all Croatian and still needs to be insisted on it. I'll give you the information. I don't mean to defend myself from anything, because it's been some contracts that have been signed since '96. and in 2005, and in 2013. To all those who write in the way they write, I can personally be offended, but I don't matter by name and last name, but as head of a state institution. They all know in what circumstances it's all been. And if we're going to talk about these documents before we think about it, we need to know that these are documents whose creator is not in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, I would still not talk about it. It's a special story. Besides, since '97. until 2001 when they were handed over to the Croatian State Archives and listed those who today thought they could share lessons should then be taken into account. After that, everything is a matter of interstate agreement procedure, and what I would like very clearly to highlight documents is not a problem. The fully displayed documents will show exactly what circumstances the Croats have defended themselves from, who they have defended themselves from and what happened in BiH as they have shown and what happened in Croatia when we talked about the rulings of Gotovina and Markac and Mr Cermak. For your information, before the centre took over the documents 90,000 pages of copies were already in The Hague, not counting the copies that the lawyers of the teams that were working at the time and something had already gone towards Sarajevo. In 2009, these documents were taken over by our center. By 2012, none of them had come out because they were trying because of experience in Gotovina and Markac's trial trying to do something about it. And what you said, I'll just be a little more specific. We didn't stop that cooperation. This was stopped by the government of Mr. Milanovic, but for the intervention after the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina came to us and told us what was happening to Mr. Ljubic about the trials in Sarajevo, how different the criteria are when tried by members of the HVO. And the most important fact was when we were told, and that was 2015 in April on the anniversary of the HVO Day in Livn, when they told us look, we can't get documents from lawyers, so people who are suspected in front of the Sarajevo court can't get an insight into the BiH Army archive material. And of course, after that Mr. Orsat was then the minister of justice, we asked him for a meeting with people to hear firsthand and then it followed, but after it was known what was done and after there was really a reason to stop that interstate agreement. Here's what I wrote down. If I forgot something, please don't mind me. Only when I talk about this justice is it difficult for me to say that justice when we talk about six Croats for 12 years is already going on and I repeat, so many absurd judgments in the joint criminal enterprise are a first degree which is actually directly accusing Croatia when we know what's been going on there since '92. the year and what would have happened if it hadn't been for Croatia and the Croats, if there hadn't been a referendum on which the Croats went out, if there hadn't been a joint co-operation since '92. Since July, there has been an agreement between President Tudjman and Izetbegovic and '95. It is renewed in July, in fact adding the military agreement which is and that is a very important issue to consider. Why does the Bosniak side refuse him since '92? For years, why refuse a military agreement, if all is clear and we are allies? These are things that, unfortunately, little is said in Croatia. I repeat, we are Mr. Jasen Mesic's company at the time of 8 said that we are also talking about our difficult moments and that we are talking about some wicked acts, and if we know in Croatia all that some members of the Croatian forces have committed against some people of other nationalities remain open again, how it is possible that we do not know anything about the suffering of Croats in BiH first and that here in Croatia in the media in Croatia that they are neglecting and silent. And in the end, as last year, I will appeal as much as you and all of us can in the media space, especially on HTV, that given what is coming next next to us about BiH, as much as possible on the basis of the facts, there is talk of events in BiH. All of us who speak publicly sometimes will say a sentence that can be interpreted in one way or another, but it is important when we talk about people who have a longer background in public, it is important to recognize what the whole is and what the quality is, and then it will be possible to understand if a gaff is made, especially if that person is told. As for financial assistance, we share the fate of all archives in Croatia. I can always ask for more, it's important to us that we can work uninterruptedly. So far, all governments have supported us, in one period, one part of the ministry has caused us a problem that wasn't needed, but in general, all governments have supported us. The only thing we're missing right now, and that's a lot of archives missing, and I think we're going to do it intensively in the next period because otherwise we won't have anywhere to store the material that's been collected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u24019	Thank you. We have two replicas. She's the first of them to be the esteemed colleague of the Bunyan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u24020	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, Director. Yes, the question you mentioned during your final presentation is also important, and this is about an international presentation of the results obtained by historical research. Now it occurred to me how to say Hungarians all the key books from their history automatically translate into German, English, Italian, so I saw even in Croatian. So they're trying to make the historical truth of the show and other peoples, so it doesn't just stay within their national borders. It should be done to translate books on the Homeland War into foreign languages, to give documentary films to the respective festivals, and also to give our scientists the opportunity to support participation in international scientific gatherings because in any case it is very important how perceptions about the Homeland War will be created and beyond the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u24021	Thank you. The reply of the Honorable Director.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u24022	Thank you very much. On this very trail in this report by 2015 among the 65 books that the centre published, 8 is bilingual one is even trilingual, but what was most important was we adapted to the situation when the attack on the Storm was, then we published the book Operation Storm in English, also the book on Vukovar, and when it was after the first-degree verdict we published the Greater-Serbian aggression on the Republic of Serbia precisely bilingual so that it could be understood with the most important data that we had regarding the operations themselves in the Homeland War and with the information that the prosecution was instructed as a criminal Croatian force so that the international public could be informed. And here it turned out later that those data were really accurate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u24023	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed Edge of Muscle.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u24024	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Nazor, thank you for your speech. I believe you've done a lot, but I'd like to ask you a question. We all know the truth about the Croatian state. Every human Croat knows the truth. I now want to ask you, so who is preventing the truth from writing in Croatian books on Croatian media, Croatian radio and anything that prevents it? You should know that. So can we be denied in these 25 years of our truth that our children do not know the truth? So please take care of it and tell this people who's stopping it? And these crimes that have been committed against our people and these courts that, I guess, ours can't even get into the archives, so I can't see what happened. So we're forbidden to tell the truth what happened to us. So will you please tell me who's stopping the truth? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u24025	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed... Of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u24026	... I don't think we all know the truth. We who deal with the Homeland War at all what's true, but many of us deal with a number of facts that say something. And to this question of yours, I'd say by countering, we all know who's making it impossible. Is it okay that in the last 10, 15 years in the most important shows such as Sunday at 2 is the least those who are professional to talk about some problems. Remember the period of first degree judgment. How much space in the media had in such shows people who were neither historians nor understood what they were talking about, they were coming out with data about I don't know 220 thousand burned houses, about 600 people killed, so they said, we saw it and we read it, and then the court made some judgments, and they didn't give up on it. I'm just saying, look, I'm not going to the portals, I'm not going to go to the press, everyone has the right to editor it, but we have the Croatian television that's public and look at it, I repeat in the last 15 years in the most watched shows, let's say Sunday at 2 is the central show everyone sees at home. They're all mostly at home at the time. How many people were there when it was a first-degree verdict that worked intensively in researching the history of the Homeland War, and how many of those were from NGOs, and there is a public change. This information that we of the 20,000 people killed in Croatia in the chronology of Southeast Europe who will read politicians in Brussels have only one family, tells you a lot about it. Media perception, media pre-named, find me a third word that will mark it, but the fact is that some things force themselves on the core of actual facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u24027	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate. We'll vote of course when the conditions are met. Tomorrow we will continue to work at 9.30 and the first point will be: a proposal for a Decision on the appointment of a deputy and deputy attorney for persons with disabilities. Have a nice afternoon. A session interrupted at 17.05 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-13-0.u24028	The following is the report on the work of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War for 2015. The report is submitted to the Croatian Memorial-documentation Centre of the Homeland War. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion, the report on the work of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War for 2015 is accepted. Please vote. The vote is over. I find that most 107 votes for, with one abstention and no votes against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Dear MPs and MPs, I warmly welcome you, we continue with the work of the plenary session. The first item is the Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of the Deputy Advocate and Deputy Advocate,... Excuse me, Agent Dodig. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
