ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u6934	Mr. President, you've noticed, there are more raised hands than the MPs this morning. Fortunately, two hands don't get up. I would ask you nicely for a break, as you know, today the government announced a reform package, including the privatisation of certain companies that would reduce public debt. Since the government has already sent a number of different messages that have been very often contradictory for the past month, I would like to address the public on behalf of my club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u6935	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Koncevski, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u6936	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u6937	So it's the same subject?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u6938	It's the same for the government's reforms.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u6939	Same subject, thank you very much. Representative Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u6940	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, due to the incomprehensible action of the Minister of Culture on May 1st, the Culture Nova Foundation will be left without all its administrative bodies and will practically cease to exist. It is a foundation that also implements UNESCO programmes. If this happens, there will be not only unmistakable damage but also an unprecedented shame for the Republic of Croatia. The SDP is looking for a break to warn you, Parliament Speaker, the parliamentary majority, as well as the general public of this threat.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u6941	Thank you very much. We have a distinguished representative, Turin-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u6942	On behalf of the HNS Club, it is also related to the situation in culture or to the approval of a culture programme with special reference to the financing of cultural programmes in Rijeka and these institutional programmes.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u6943	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ, the honourable representative. ... Government program? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Honorable representative of the Mlakar. Do we have anyone else? We don't. So at 9.50 I'll see you here. Thank you very much. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] The break time is up and I would like to ask, on behalf of the club HRIDA, the word is taken by the distinguished representative Drago Prgomet. Here you go. Please, we can sit down and listen to what has to be said by the distinguished representative Prgomet on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u6945	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Today, the government announced a package of reforms related to, inter alia, budget cuts or debt cuts, and one of the important items already announced was the privatisation of state-owned public enterprises. The prime minister, among other things, said very clearly in the announcement of the budget that certain companies would be privatised to reduce public debt. If you remember then on behalf of the club we asked the question of which companies are involved, which will be privatized unfortunately, until today we have not received an answer. HRID, our club also asked the investor what it was about when the president said he had an investor to buy a country in Slavonia. We believe that the job of the Prime Minister is not to seek, to sell the country through Slavonia because running the state is not to run a corporation, but to lead public goods. When you hear different answers, vague answers and having our brief history in mind, then it is clear why people are concerned when the word privatisation is mentioned. From the fact that privatization, unfortunately with its immorality, has deeply marked modern Croatia and those who have failed their citizens by promising to correct the mistakes of privatisation. I would like to remind you that the State Office for State Property Management has opened an invitation to tender or to request advice services to quote for an initial and independent assessment of the portfolio of companies owned by the Republic of Croatia prior to the decision to privatise companies owned by the Republic of Croatia and this analysis of the situation in 54 state-owned companies and later attempted to unconvincedly justify this tender or to announce that it is just an analysis for the sake of insight into the situation. And that's my first question? Why is there an analysis in companies that have already been analyzed? We're doing analysis to re-analyze everything we get as data. According to my information only in HEP is that they claim to have spent more than 30 million kuna on the analysis of the situation in that company. We spent 50 million kuna for insight into the state of the Croatian road to eventually give up monetization. We spent 205 million kuna for quin start. Over 6 million kunas have been spent in the last ten years alone in the Croatian forests to analyse the state of restructuring and possible privatisation. So the question arises and why is it that if the economy minister claims yesterday that strategic companies will not be privatised, why are the Croatian forests on that list? Yes, let's be clear, HRID is not against privatisation and we really don't think that the state should have a share or be the owner of 1400 companies. It is certainly necessary to privatise state-owned enterprises for which there is neither economic nor public interest and which can compete in the market but we are privatising ourselves, but we are opposed to any privatisation of forests, countries and infrastructure. Infrastructure and public services should be separated. Public services can be privatised but the infrastructure does not, like the railway, like the transmission of electricity or telecommunications. Although unfortunately here we have made another big mistake by privatizing with telecommunications services and waterways, so today Croatia has expensive telecommunications services and unfortunately slows the Internet. Therefore, given that we have not received clear answers from the Government by now at least three months, I suggest that since it is a very sensitive issue, it is a matter of national interest that the Croatian Parliament discusses and convenes a plenary session. The fact that these are strategic companies and which companies can go to privatisation and which they can't, and that this decision obliges all governments, not that every government makes its own privatisation plan and its restructuring plan as if political life in Croatia starts from each government. Instead of wasting our energy on the former president, the memorials, the wars of our fathers, it would be high time we went to take care of the future of our own children at least as long as they had it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u6946	Thank you very much. The next one will speak on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, the distinguished representative Tomislav Koncevski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u6947	Dear President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I would also talk about this subject that my colleague Prgomet was talking about. I think this is a very important topic because today the government has proposed means that reforms will be proposed at the cabinet's session. So, the government has promised to reduce public debt by selling state-owned enterprises but I hope it will keep those from selling out Croatian forests and Croatian waters. You're the only one who sees yourself as a patriot, and you expect all of us to believe that. I think that in the 1990s they showed how many patriots you were and what privatisation meant in Croatia and how it went, how privatisation went for these companies and for these workers and generally for the state. I don't think there's any faith in it or hope anymore that you'll do it the way you presented it or how you present it to the people. Only if you don't sign it with a public notary so he can verify it so we can make sure it happens that way. As we know, the State Property Management Office has opened a public procurement procedure for advisor services. Here's the gentleman, i.e. My colleague Prgomet was talking about it, so in all these public enterprises and state-owned enterprises, we have some kind of supervisory board, board of directors, we have some kind of directors. Don't they do that job? Isn't 115 highly educated employees who are supposed to be doing the job, who should worry about whether these companies are doing well or not. Paying special advisors now, paying special services I don't think that's good for this country. We have reports here and there from some years, from some public institutions, and all that together, so the state should work in that direction, people are busy doing that job. I think that the government has announced a lot of reforms, and all the reforms that have now happened or are going to happen or are going to be carried out to harm the people. I think that so far every reform that has been proposed is a reduction of something, some social rights and something where people should give more. I don't think that's reform. We have seen in your pre-campions and campaigns that you have promised something completely different, that you will make it easier for the people, not that you will make it very difficult for the people, to raise prices for various services and especially for the health services that the people have and constitutional right to think is very harmful and very bad. I don't think we're going to end cities and counties because there are your people who won't let that happen, and that was one of your reforms. I think reform, that we're going to work up to 67 years is just crazy. I'll tell you from my example. I'm a professional firefighter. Now imagine me at 67 years old, God forbid your house is set on fire and I have to go to your house at 67 years of age to put out the fire. And another situation. You can't redistribute a professional firefighter into an office because we only have one office and that's just to run some statistical, some analytical data. Where are you going to put them? Where are you going to put some other professions after centuries when they can't work? Where are you going to put the builder? Where are you going to put these people? Where are they going? They won't be able to work anymore after 60 years because they'll be completely ragged. Who's interested in that? Why do you do that? I don't understand that. It's not clear to me that we really have to be so crazy that we've been listening to such nonsense for 25 years and nothing's happening. And you persistently continue to strategy, reform and only everything at the heart of the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u6948	Thank you. The next one will speak on behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u6949	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, the Culture New Foundation, was founded in 2011 and has since successfully contributed to the system of financing an independent culture. The Foundation supported 118 projects through the support programme only in 2015. Culture has included UNESCO in its global development goals by bringing a document... and our foundation continuously strengthens the capacity of civil society in culture to actively participate in the UN Convention's objectives on the protection and promotion of diverse cultural expressions. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] The "Culture New" Foundation Act provides for two trust authorities – the Management Board which has 5 members and acts without compensation, as well as the manager or manager of the foundation. The board of directors and the Management Board shall be elected for a term of four years. On a proposal from the Minister of Culture on 5 January 2012, the previous Government adopted a decision on the appointment of members of the Management Board of the ‘Cultura new’ Foundation. Since it was known that on 5 January 2016, after 4 years, the term of office would expire on time, a responsible procedure was opened and a public call was issued on 2 September last year for candidates for members of the new Management Board. The implementation of this public call procedure coincided, however, with the disbanding of the Croatian Parliament, and thus the Government of Zoran Milanovic did not appoint members of the new Management Board. After forming a new government at the beginning of this year, Culture Minister Zlatko Hasanbegovic asked the foundation not to know why, but to cancel the invitation and to conduct a new one. That's what the Foundation did. On 3 February 2016, a new public invitation was issued in the National Journal for the application of candidates for members of the Management Board. There's been enough reports. However, the culture minister is again asking for the public invitation to be annulled and to conduct a new one. And that's where Minister Hasanbegovic was heard. A new public call has now expired on May 1st. The situation is now like this, the board of directors has expired and it does not exist. Director Mrs. Dei Vidovic's term of office expires on May 1st, and she will step down from her post. A new administrator or administrator should be decided by the Management Board that does not exist or will be able to form by the end of the month. So on May 1st, the foundation will be left without a single legal member, technically it will cease to exist. Mrs. Vidovic asked the Ministry of Management to act in accordance with the Foundation and Foundations Act and to appoint a trust commissioner who would take over the affairs and management board and director. The Foundation should also implement one UNESCO project, the UNESCO project "Participatory Management of Cultural Institutions", and is one of the 6 approved worldwide in 2016. It's worth 202,000 kuna. One-third of that money you're now thinking of hijacking the office of the former president of the Republic. UNESCO is giving us money, and the culture minister is trying to do everything possible to stop the foundation that this project could have for these UNESCO money. If this happens, there will be immeasurable damage and incredible shame for the Republic of Croatia. This is what Mrs. Vidovic is looking for here and we, the SDP club. We're asking the Department of Administration to appoint a commissioner immediately today or tomorrow. If this does not occur, we invite all cultural workers who care about the preservation of culture in Croatia, a culture that is seriously threatened by the work of this government and its minister to raise their voice and not allow further devasting of Croatian culture and such incredible damage. Maybe it won't be enough to raise just the voice of cultural workers, maybe we'll have to raise the tent. We now have an empty space to hide under that tent everything left of the culture in the Republic of Croatia. If we don't do that then the remains of your culture in the Republic of Croatia after this government and this minister will only stand under one Ustasha cap.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u6950	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the HNS club, a respected representative of Nada Turina-Đuric will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u6951	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. So here is the request for a break from fellow Stazic about culture and what has been going on here the last few weeks, but of course we all expected that something like this to happen in view of the announcements that have already occurred in the formation of the Government and appointment of the Minister, a few words about what is right in the culture work, in the culture portfolio in the Republic of Croatia. Although culture and the Ministry of Culture run by cultural policy in one country by the logic of things in a democratic society should be a cornerstone of social upgrade in terms of supporting the most diverse, advanced, institutional but also extra-institutional and alternative and intellectual and cultural workers of individuals, associations, institutions and society as a whole means supporting such forces should be the Ministry of Culture in one democratic state. But in Croatia exactly the fact that it is happening now, he mentioned it now and his colleague Stazic, meaning different approach to all these segments, not to say the rematch that occurs and the reckoning with just some of these most advanced social forces in action is something that was once called a cultural revolution with an ugly sound in the most negative sense of that word. What particularly offends me as a representative, as well as the HNS club, is that just in the area of the region where I come from, it is the Primorje-Gorski County and the city of Rijeka, several days back we read the inscriptions that exactly one institution, one of the most qualitative institutions of the HNK "Ivana pl. Zajca" in Rijeka is denied for significant funds under the excuse that it does not fit the programme into criteria set by the Ministry of Culture for the financing of the programme. Given the well-known situation that we had in the public debate over the HNK in Rijeka, it is quite clear that it is trying in this way to mean that the person like we discussed the former President Mesic yesterday means the same thing that is actually disqualifying or trying to remove a person from the head of the head of the HNK/Intentor in Rijeka, in a way that he will be very likely to be very difficult and with the help of the budget of the city of Rijeka, which, of course, is in the problems of financial particularly when it comes to the culture, will be asked very nearly the question of his ability or her inability to manage that cultural institution. And in this way, one person who has been very successful in running the theatre, who has indeed done a lot for the cultural scene of the city of Rijeka over the past 2.3 years, will try to deal with it in some way, or remove it from political space. The same thing that's happening in Rijeka is interesting and with a diary that we in Rijeka are particularly proud of it is La voce part of the polo. And, of course, EDIT publishing house. It's something that we in the river in our area have somehow cherished with special attention and support. There we cannot talk about that this publishing house, that La voce is part of something that can only survive on the market definitely not, but it is part of the tradition, part of the culture of our region, that is respect for the national minority who lives there, the Italian national minority, and I think that the culture minister would really have to reconsider not to touch or to reduce, or to remove funds for the financing of La voce part of the polo and EDIT. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u6952	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the HDZ Club, the last one will speak for the esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u6953	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Given the first two speakers, I would ask myself and you a question that I asked myself before I spoke about the budget on behalf of the HDZ Club, which is whether we are really ready for reform and whether we are ready to change some things in this country. That's the key question. So the government will present a reform package today. It will put in place goals that it wants to achieve by the end of the term of office, and I will also say to myself, so to speak, set the time limit. And by these passing times, we'll be able to tell if the government has succeeded or failed. And yesterday, we had a chance to hear, forgive me for saying dirty talk about reform at the expense of the government and the ruling coalition, the government is going to propose something today. The passing times will be like this, the passing times will be controlled and, as always, the opposition will normally look for something to hit on. And it's politically legitimate and it always happens. However, it is crucial that the government does what sets its goals at the end of the year, at the end of the term. So the government has set itself four basics, which is a reduction in deficits, a reduction in the share of public debt compared to GDP, a reduction in unemployment, i.e. increasing employment and economic growth. And based on this elaborate reform that needs to be implemented. Some will be implemented under existing laws, some laws will be amended and new laws will be passed. And logically, today we already have a Committee on European Affairs, a joint session of the Committee on European Affairs, a Committee on Finance and a Committee on Regional Development where, practically, when you take the number of representatives of these three committees, almost 40% of the representatives will receive direct information from the representatives of the Government, which is in this reform package. And then after that, the colleagues who discussed it this way today who don't know what they're discussing because they haven't seen that package will be able to express their views and opinions. But I repeat, colleagues and colleagues, if we are for reform while we are in power, then we must be for them and while we are in opposition. And I think I'm one of those guys who's been talking here the whole time for the past four years that without structural reforms, there's no change, and I'm not going to change my rhetoric in these four years because there's just no change for the better in Croatia. And as far as this second part is concerned, it is more transparent, clearer and more correct to use budget money as part of certain reform projects. Is pluralism if some have confused their status in the budget and they have to get the money? Or it's pluralism to call a public tender and that anyone with a new idea and a new program can come forward. And if that's the one who's responsible for allocating the money that that's it, he gets the money that's more correct and fair? Because if we're going to confuse the status, then we'll never get anything new. Or we'll go when I come to power, I can change everything, I can move everything, I can put it like this, but when you come to power, you can't do it. You have to take the existing condition and drive after it and I'm going to attack you why you didn't do this or that. Here you see colleagues and colleagues, in that reform package, that's exactly it. The government has managed, set up such things, and based on what they wrote, we will be able to say whether they are doing well or not. I know some of the positions in the budget didn't like it and why? Because they do not guarantee the existing situation, but they will finance certain programmes from the programme. And it's in some offices. Many have learned to get so much and so much money and have done something or not. Now, Minister one, two, three say that this will no longer be so, but that it will be more transparent, that a public tender will be conducted and under the Law on Access to Information each citizen of the Republic of Croatia has the right to ask to see how the tender was conducted, based on which criteria the money was allocated. And then based on that, I think the most correct thing would be whether we're on the left side, on the right side, or in the middle of this assembly to discuss it. But I repeat, it is obvious that we are not all ready for reforms and without the reforms of colleagues and colleagues, these objectives cannot be achieved, which is to reduce deficits, reduce public debt ratios compared to GDP and increase employment and reduce unemployment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u6954	Thank you. Now we're going back to our usual agenda. Thank you very much. The respect usually consists of sticking to time. I ask everyone to stick to time. The esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u6956	As long as you let me. Dear colleagues Anticevic-Marinović from your claims several inaccuracies, although you may have thought differently but as you said. It was you in 2004. On 8 May or July, they proposed a Law on the Rights of the President of the Republic. I was a private company employee at the time. I was nowhere near the government or the Parliament. Maybe you meant HDZ, I'm not HDZ, I'm a micro part of that HDZ. So, if HDZ also proposed such a law in 2004 and I can agree with that that you are right. But then you had to say it precisely. But even then HDZ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u6957	My colleagues, Ingrid Antičević, so please don't throw away all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8712	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15:30 A.M.]] The point with which we begin is: - Report on the effectiveness of the management and availability of properties of units of local and regional (regional) self-government Carrier: State Audit Office based on Article 9. The State Audit Office Act. Due to the size of the material, individual reports are not multiplied but are located on the Croatian Assembly website. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government whose reports you received at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. There is also the applicant for the Report, Chief State Auditor Mr Ivan Klesic. Would you like to submit an additional report? Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8713	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. The State Audit Office has carried out 21 audits of the efficiency of real estate management and availability of units of local and regional self-government. The audit covers all local units in the Republic of Croatia, so 20 counties, 127 towns, 428 municipalities and the city of Zagreb. The subject of the audit was the procedures and activities of local units in relation to the management and availability of real estate. The concept of real estate includes building land and construction facilities, so business premises and apartments. The audit procedures covered business operations from 2012 to 2014 and the audit objectives were to assess the integrity of real estate data, normative management and availability of real estate, whether or not they manage and dispose of local real estate units in accordance with regulations and efficiency, and to assess the efficiency of internal control systems in real estate management and availability. At the end of 2014, local units operated and equipped with 22 thousand 425 business spaces of 3.6 million square meters, 18 thousand 371, with an apartment area of more than 900 thousand square meters and with a building plot of 338 million square meters. With the availability of business premises, apartments and land from 2012 to 2014, local units made revenue of 2.8 billion kuna. On the basis of the data collected and established facts, the State Audit Office has assessed that the management and availability of real estate in 32 local units is effective while in all other local units it is partially efficient. Real estate management and availability has been evaluated effectively for 7 counties, 19 cities and 6 municipalities. Among other things, the audit found that local units do not have data on the real state of the property they manage and dispose of or should manage and dispose of. There is no record of any property for which property legal relations have been settled and no systematic and planning activities have been undertaken for the assets for which they have not been settled, as well as records in the accounts. Furthermore, local units have not established and do not keep the property register in a manner and with the data prescribed. In addition, they have not established the purpose of the property they manage and dispose of and have not established a record of the revenue and expenditure incurred from the management and availability of real estate per unit of real estate. They have not adopted a real estate management and availability strategy, have not adopted an annual management and availability plan and have not prescribed a way of reporting on the implementation of the strategy and the management plan and the availability of real estate. In the case of real estate acquisition, no analysis has been carried out to determine the economic justification of the chosen form of real estate acquisition and the possibility of using the existing properties of local units. At the end of 2014, they were not used or were outside the use of 3473 business premises and 1979 apartments. Some business premises were leased without the public tender procedure and without the conclusion of the lease agreement. No lease agreements have been concluded with individual rent users and no rentals have been charged and charged. Before the start of the construction of the property, no property legal relations were arranged, the total value of investments with sources of funding was not determined and the necessary financial resources were not provided, no activities were taken to complete the construction of buildings which were not completed or not put into operation and the contracted works for completion of the works expired. The State Audit Office has made recommendations to remove identified failures and weaknesses, which would increase the efficiency of real estate management and availability. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8714	Thank you. Let's get started on the debate. He checked in first. We have reports from the board, do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word? Goran Maric, on behalf of the Committee on Finance or Mr Tulio Demetlika, chairman of the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8715	Dear Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, the esteemed Mr. Kresic, along with his associates from the State Audit Office. The Committee for Local and Regional Regional Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament held at the third session on 21 April 2016 discussed the report on the audit carried out, the effectiveness of the management, the availability of properties in local and regional self-government units delivered to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Chief State Auditor of the Act of 9 March 2016. The Committee for Local and Regional, Regional Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, discussed the report in question as an interested working body. The Committee also had the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on which the report on the implementation of an audit of the effectiveness, management, availability of units of local and regional self-government is accepted. Following the opening statement by the applicant, the debate was opened and the Committee members specifically stressed the need to manage and make available the assets of local units with the attention of a good master, i.e. that the property must be in the function of developing the economy and creating new values in units of local and regional, regional self-government. The need to amend legislation in such a way as to allow for real independence, economics and the efficiency of doing business at the disposal of the local self-government unit is also highlighted. A number of problems have been highlighted that have affected and affected property management since relations with the state administration office and a large number of pending requests from local self-government units. The problem of resolving property legal relations involving a number of state institutions and the problem of managing public housing and business space funds or the need to change the current model and transfer to local self-government units, and ultimately complicated and long-term procedures. The committee members agreed on the need, unanimously my word, to hold a thematic session of the Committee on Local and Regional, Regional Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament in order to offer solutions to the management and availability of property owned by the state and units of local self-government. After the debate was held, the Regional Self-Government decided unanimously to propose to the Croatian Assembly the conclusion that this report on the audit carried out and the effectiveness of the management and availability of the property of the local and regional self-government units is acceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8716	Thank you. Now we're opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, Honorable Representative Damir Mateljan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8717	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Chief State Auditor, colleagues and fellow MPs. The State Audit report on the audit of the effectiveness, management and availability of properties owned by units of local, regional or regional self-government is a very professional document such as all and all reports so far that have come from the state audit equally professionally, equally professionally. In the last few years, the State Audit has a crackdown on certain segments of local governance. It was a review of the management of unclassified roads, it was a review of the management of waste disposal efficiency or, therefore, this latest audit concerning the efficiency of real estate management owned units of local self-government. This practice has been welcomed by local self-government for several reasons. The State audit does not impose itself as some kind of financial inspection, does not impose itself as some judicial body which punishes itself, but, above all, as a professional advisory body which, primarily by analysing the operations of local self-government units, points to failures, advises and proposes ways, makes recommendations for the failures observed in the management of local self-government units and the way in which such failures are therefore necessary to remove them. The State audit shall set a time limit for the removal of detected failures, the monitoring and supervision of units of local self-government in the implementation of those recommendations. This kind of revision is much less stressful for local self-government. But more importantly, it is much more effective in solving problems in the way units of local, regional or regional self-government are managed. This is an audit, as pointed out, involving all local communities in the Republic of Croatia, so 20 counties, 127 towns, 428 municipalities and the city of Zagreb. The subject of this audit was the activities of local self-government in relation to the management, availability of real estate, and under the terms of real estate audits includes building land or construction facilities. business spaces and apartments. The objectives and areas of the audit were the assessment of real estate data and records, the assessment of the normative state of real estate management, the harmonisation of the legal framework with the method of real estate management and the efficiency of governance and the efficiency of internal control. The audit covered the operations of units of local, regional or regional self-government from 2012 to 2014 and found that at the end of 2014, units of local, regional or regional self-government managed and held over 22 thousand business premises, over 18000 apartments and building land of nearly 400 thousand square metres. Management and availability of these properties brought local, regional self-government from 2012 to 2014 4 billion kuna. Most of the cities and counties received a partially effective rating. The main objections to State audits relate primarily to the lack of real data, i.e. on the real state of the property they have or manage local self-government units. Then, without having a property management strategy, not having a register of assets, not establishing the purpose of real estate, not carrying out public procurement on the lease and non-competition of the lease agreement. Most of these shortcomings actually stem from the first fact, which is that units of local, regional or regional self-government do not have a real state of property that they have, or more correctly, which they should have. However, this fact cannot be affected by the unit of local self-government because it stems from inconsistencies primarily from land books, i.e. catasters and grants. Then, because of the lack of compliance with decisions, solutions and discrepancies in the case-law in the Republic of Croatia. So, unfortunately, it can happen, so in principle the same requirement of a local self-government unit is resolved differently in Čakovec than it is, for example, solved in Zadar. This assessment and analysis of the State Audit also shows the inequality of the capacity of local self-government units, however, where these capacities do not correspond to the financial capacities of the local self-government unit concerned, with its size, or with its demographic strength. It's final. So, if we discuss this audit report today tomorrow, and after that, as is usually the case, we forget about it, then regret the divine expertise of this revision, regrets the divine expertise of this document. What we expect in the SDP Club, therefore, is that this report as well as all other reports not only of the State Audit, but of all other institutions dealing with the deep analysis of governance in local self-government units will be the basic tools that will serve us when reforming the local self-government that we need and everyone is talking about. That is to say, when the criteria of effectiveness and justification of certain units of local self-government and local self-government are done, that it is exactly an expert analysis that will lead to sustainable and effective solutions. In this particular hope, the SDP club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8718	Thank you. The replica was reported by distinguished representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8719	Thank you very much. Comrade Mateo, I fully agree with your debate. But I think we should all get something else out of this. When we talk about decentralisation, then our mouths are full of how we should decentralize something without taking advantage of all the potentials and possibilities from which units of local self-government can be financed. Because when you look at the potential here, just numerically when you look at it, let's not turn it into a financial part that has the potential of local self-government units. And what's very important, these properties are owned and they can practically open a game to attract investors. Doesn't have to mean someone pays some big rent that it's a success. It may be far more important that through employment and through that part of income tax. Because when you look at practically 95, 99% of income tax returns to local self-government units. So that's the income potential of local self-government units. And when we talk tomorrow about what a picture of local self-government should look like in the Republic of Croatia, then certainly these table indicators that we have here, which are even more analytically, can be developed even more when you take that record of over 5,000 concession contracts. Of that, a large part of the concession contracts concluded by the local self-government units for ad hoc amounts, then we will see that units of local self-government have one terrible income potential and that we must use. And when we think and think about it that way, then probably talking about local self-government, decentralisation is going to be completely different than we're saying. Because it's not the income of local self-government tax, it's some other stuff.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8720	The honourable representative Damir Mateljan will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8721	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Yes, fellow Shuker. I completely agree with you. Namely, when I said that this particular report should be a tool in future reform, then we read from that report what you said. Of course there are huge capacities at local level. Unfortunately, these capacities are not evenly deployed. If we look at this report, then we see that these facilities are actually along our coast, so with the units of local self-government located in Dalmatia, Istria, islands, so that their land, i.e. the quality of their land, i.e. the price of their land, is much higher than in Slavonia or central Croatia. In the same way, the city of Zagreb itself means, by the number of its business spaces and other major cities in the Republic of Croatia, that small units of local self-government cannot be measured, nor can they be worn. And so that's exactly why we know that decentralisation is actually a two-way process. So, yes, and I agree with that, so just the first units of local self-government have to take advantage of what they have and that's the space, and that space includes real estate. So all those potentials they own in that space. However, there is a problem with the capacitation of local self-government units. Unfortunately, some units of local self-government do not have enough capacity to put their potential into some kind of a competition and make a profit. And that's exactly why we need a local self-government reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8722	Thank you. Next debate, distinguished representative Blaženko Boban, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8723	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament representatives of a respected colleague here we have a review report, a warm greeting and to you, Mr. Klesic, who, technically speaking, has nothing to add, is a really well-reviewed audit, but the result of this audit is truly defeated. The result of this revision is that of the 576 regional and local units, only 32 local units have received a positive opinion. Something has to be a problem with it all, something's not right inside the legislative view. So I would look back a little on the results, the reason why exactly 32 local and regional units got a positive opinion. All the state bodies, here I think of the Ministry of Justice, the DUDI, the Ministry of Administration and the State Attorney's Office, the Civil and Law Department, as well as the Ministry of Agriculture and the parliamentary committees, have shown great understanding and full support in solving property and legal issues. However, the amendments to the law either did not follow or were unfortunately aimed at further confiscation of the property of local self-government. A number of meetings were held, sent a series of letters, proposals, were initiated before the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia even but there were no concrete shifts in favour of local self-government. The legal issue of property-legal relations is extremely complex and with it personally I don't think there's any point or need to bother you here. I guess with some new reform, harmonising the court land books could make it better. However, in my humble opinion, the following is the property of cities as bearer of the economic development of wider urban areas and the systematic and thoughtful availability of their assets is essential for the functioning of cities as well as for the development of local and gravitating local units. Today, the existing legal framework governing the availability of city property is not satisfactory because it prevents the independence, economic and efficiency of the activities entrusted to the units of local self-government by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and thus by deciding on the development of cities and their own future. It is best and visibly witnessed by empty and abandoned business spaces which are not missing in the centre of almost all cities in the Republic of Croatia. The negative effects on the tourist destinations of such abandoned and devastated areas and the picture that tourists wear about our cities do not need to be specifically explained, we are all witnesses of certain segments from television when they show in areas of special tourist settlements and places and ultimately property almost unknown. The legal framework today does not allow cities to use these resources rationally. In the first row of real estate, apartments, business spaces and land. This does not only disrupt the visual identity and image of the city but it is permanent and long-term and I am afraid that it is irreparably disrupting financial stability and the possibility of systematic and long-term planning and designing the availability of property. Unsolved property-legal relations prevent and prevent investment and economic progress and prevent the application of cities to EU funds by making it entirely uncompetitive, inert, consequently unwanted destination for investment and networking in the euro integration. On several occasions we also discussed this issue at the Association of Cities, and the Association of Cities formed 120 of 127 cities and in some way had some conclusions. The latter is addressed in May 2014 to all relevant institutions, from ministries, parliamentary committees and further. I'm just gonna tax those conclusions. Cooperation of the State Office for the Management of State Property and Local Self-Government in the context of the long-term resolution of individual cases. Once we understand that local administrations in the Republic of Croatia are an integral part of the Republic of Croatia and not from the state level to be treated as foreigners or as living in some other countries. Law on the resolution of property-legal relations for the purpose of building infrastructure facilities. On such a law on the resolution of property-legal relations for the purpose of building infrastructure facilities should be used as a lex specialis, thereby as a valuable and valid tool to accelerate the resolution of complex property-legislative relations. Apartments and business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia located in the area of the city. I'm going to say one example here, and I think a lot of people have them in their local environments, something that didn't enter the core capital in 1996 based on the transformation of a particular company, not to advertise, not even today has its own titlemaker, and there are so many indisputables happening. It was a movie once from those times that companies had large cinemas in local administrations and today unsettled. And when the local administration tries to resuscitate the premises, it gets from a construction inspection to report that it doesn't enter into someone else's property. When you ask whose property the state hasn't signed up yet. The owner of the former saying is no longer in the core capital. And what do you do with that space? Communal compensation as 4th, as the income of cities in relation to buildings owned by the Republic of Croatia located in the area of cities. I estimate the unfounded, inadmissible and unsustainable exemption from the collection of the communal fee of one of the main and most significant revenues of local units for central government bodies. We are here as partners, in this segment, in that first point, the conclusion we are not partners and here we are asked by the state government to be partners and that this is for the public and general good at the collection of municipal fees, objects that are of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia, and I agree with that in part. But we must also have such a partnership in solving property legal relations, i.e. the co-operation of central state bodies with local government. It is really important, urgent and necessary for a central state body, at this point even to clear up the recording of all public roads and county even roads in the area of local administrations carried out in its possession, i.e. the ownership of the one who manages them. At the disposal of state agricultural and forest land, this is a special topic indeed, this is one of the topics which, thanks to President Demetlika, we have put in place and agreed that we will have a special thematic session on this issue. At the end of the EU projects and land-based book documentation, local units expect a more active role from the Ministry of Regional Development, EU funds and concrete assistance in terms of speeding up procedures aimed at... ownership of legal documents all to enable local units to apply to EU funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I note that the ministry did not respond to our thematic session of the assembly because they had nothing to do with the property. And finally, mayors, mayors and mayors have chosen someone in direct elections as their legitimate representatives. I think mayors, mayors and mayors must also have certain powers in the area of their local administration based on such election results. You know, it's very embarrassing when in the field of local administration to parties, investors, you tell citizens, you know I'm not powerful here, I'm powerless because it's the jurisdiction of Croatian forests, I'm powerless because it's the jurisdiction of Croatian waters, I'm powerless because there's the jurisdiction of Croatian roads, I'm powerless because it's a maritime good. So how can such a captain, such a mayor or mayor really say that he is the legitimate representative of his local community? And that section of the mayor's authority, the mayor and the mayor really needs, I know someone will say, I can abuse it, there are bodies in this country that abuse these abuses and such powers, non-communities can very quickly and experimentally resuscitate. And esteemed friends, I will say this is a topic, this is a very important and crucial topic regardless of the left, middle or right that threatens us all, which this 20 years really challenges the development of local communities in the Republic, slows down the development of the Republic of Croatia as a whole, and therefore we really need to have a consensus on this topic without a little bit of politicization. In doing so, I call on all respected colleagues from left to center, right, to find here, we who come from the local administration together, so I'm going to say one point of view. And I hope that we, the esteemed chairman of the board, invite our colleagues sitting in this House to this thematic session of the committee and that we are already in this already planned reform and give our pain so that this really painful problem of us coming from the local level will already be put on an ad act once. Thank you very much and in the name of HDZ, here we will support this report because it is extremely correct. And because his results are so defeating gentlemen, it's not really his fault. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8724	Thank you. Replica has a respected representative, Željko Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8725	Dear President, this is a frightening report and I'm sorry we're not here two-thirds, this is a key problem in Croatia wound cancer plus corruption. And this proves frighteningly that 576 units of tithes didn't get a passing grade. And what's causing it all? Here is proof that fundamental human rights has been neglected in Croatia and that is the right to private ownership. To this day, here in Croatia, private owners are still deprived of their right to own private property. What have we inherited and what are the causes of all this? The Communist elite has drafted the SFRJ Housing Relations Act. And what's changed since then? '96. We made the law, '96. the years in this Croatian state and the Law on renting apartments. What's going on? What's the synergy between the Fund for Returns, in fact, the severance of assets between DUDI... why is not yet centralized at all what is nationalized, which is not nationalized, we are actually conducting another nationalisation of land that was taken away from people in '47. and beyond Stalin's '36 model. the years of the Soviet Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] People are looking for property, what do they find when they want to go back? That they built on their property garages, nursing homes, etc. This is not a Croatian state, this is proof that there is total chaos, administrative chaos, that this is almost only a formal state and does not respect this fundamental human right to return to private property. Not only that, there's open space for these criminals from the former state and criminals, now I'm going to give you one piece of information, since I don't have a lot of time to fake this right here on the property of some. It was also an assassination carried out by one person in Venezuela, Mrs. 90 years to be prescribed here in the center of Zagreb, to someone else's property. Who's fighting for such Croatia? The defenders aren't, and this has to go as fast as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8726	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Blaženko Boban will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8727	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Glasnović, for the truth's sake, say 32 units of local and regional administrations received a passing grade or all received a passing grade but these 32 fully met the audit requirements and no units of local administration received 0 or a negative assessment for the sake of the truth. The reason for that or better to say everything with 5% units got a score of 4 or 5 and all the others got a score of 2 no one got a negative grade. And as for this problem that you're talking about, it's a deeper problem that we all know is that for 70 years at this property or property area, the right to own people in some way wasn't solved at the same level, so today we in our country have been dealing with property legal issues and I think over 60% are still mainly in our area down Dalmatia, the last booking from the time of Francis Joseph. This is one problem that is really much bigger and that is affecting both private property and local administrations and all those who are entitled to certain properties.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8728	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8729	My colleague, I will look back on that part of your debate that I think is crucial not only for this issue, which is on the agenda today but also for something concerning all of us, Croatia's progress, which is governance, what is most important in space, property management, whether it is owned by our citizens, units of local self-government or state, and as such is not registered. What we've done so far, and that's my contribution, in some way, to all agree on it. Since 2002, we have been taking loans and the state budget is financing the digitisation of land books, the harmonisation of cadastres, and in this, huge money has been spent and the result is weak and almost nothing. Why is it a good part? What's the reason for that? Because we have a strictly formed and formulated and prescribed ZK procedure as a procedure of strictly formal nature. One hour he no longer corresponds to the modern way of life, and we have to change that. Because some people, as long as a citizen isn't interested, some of them are but you have people, mostly our evicts in Canada, America, in other overseas countries that may have one I don't know 100/2 or such a small part of the property and don't give to their heirs and co-owners to solve this problem. So in order for us to change the whole thing here, we need to change the whole philosophy and move into new legislation to force citizens, as a citizen is forced to register his entire car and other property, even a mobile one must simply be forced by law to choose to solve his land-based book situation. And those who don't respond should simply see that they have consequences for their ownership, because in this way we simply can't force them, and as long as the law of that nature doesn't change, we won't be able to do anything. I think that's the main problem, and where there's will, there's political will there's a way, as while the defenders were killed, what was social, state, overnight became private. So I'm saying that if there's a will there's a way to talk about what you're talking about, I'm very glad you talked about it, and that's something that there's consent and I think we have the strength to pass such a law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8730	Thank you very much. The Honorable Representative Blaženko Boban will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8731	Thank you, Vice President. And to you, distinguished MP Anticevic, I absolutely agree with you in that segment, and I really think that everyone in that segment should agree. But you see we've been doing a digital measurement, in one part we've been doing a digital measurement, and then the owner of the land says no, here where the border is and you know the term of the border, there's mine, this is Stipino, Antino, but there's mine. However, the ZK excerpt says it is not within that border and then additional wars arise, the inter-neighbor wars arise precisely because of a digital measurement that is not well defined by law. I'll tell you the whole truth. It is not well defined by law because in a small place when a digital measurement was carried out, there was no digital measurement until no court dispute came. Today you have 23 court disputes in that one small place when we've brought a digital measurement to work and you know what the reason is, probably erosion of the ground in these 150 years when the first ZK extract was made to move that border, maybe then it's not a good instrument or measure, but the owner and one and the other says, here where the border is the country. And the law should therefore define that, and in the first part of yours, I absolutely agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8732	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Tulio Demetlika. And you didn't give up. Excuse me, thank you. We're going to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives IDS, PGS List for Rijeka, the esteemed representative of Tulio Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8733	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In the beginning, I will point out that the IDS, PGS and Rijeka List will accept and support this report on the implementation of an audit of the effectiveness, management and availability of the properties of the local and regional self-government units, because it is good, that the State Audit Office warns about weaknesses and failures related to the state, purpose and use of the property of local units, and that it makes recommendations that will affect the efficiency of real estate management and availability and contribute to the removal of identified irregularities. And what Mr. Schucker said to increase the security of fiscal income to local self-government units. We at the IDS Club give full support to the audit because we experience the audit as a welcome subject whose task is besides all others and advisory to the mutual satisfaction of all the entities involved in it. The recommendations of the revision enable even more successful and economical management and availability of properties of units of local and regional (regional) self-government to the satisfaction of all our citizens. However, we at the IDS club want to particularly highlight the problem of real estate in the area of local units owned by the Republic of Croatia. Here we think of former military properties, business premises, apartments, tourist facilities and complexes, industrial plants and land within industrial complexes, agricultural and forest land as well as tourist land. And as Mr. Boban said, even the maritime well. There would certainly also be higher revenues if all of these empty facilities that I've listed paid at least 50% of the public fees as well as private ones are paying, and in this way they would fill their budgets, but the state has ensured itself that for all those unused spaces that fail daily simply doesn't pay any compensation to local self-government units. That is why we in Istria are extremely interested in the use of this state property in order to increase the tourist offer, build municipal infrastructure, build or expand entrepreneurship zones, realise projects of general, public or social interest. Whether we build apartments or redesign existing buildings in homes for older, school or preschool institutions as cultural institutions. Today, we also face the problem that as we solve problems of ownership with the state, we cannot realise the most basic waste dumps and similar projects. Namely, the State Office for the Management of State Property as a central authority for the management and availability of local units shall submit requests for the granting of state property in the possession of whether through donation, replacement or possible use of the right of construction, the right of service, the assignment to use. That's how these procedures work, the assignments take a long time. A very small number of requests have been resolved. Further documentation has been requested for some requests and part of the award application has been rejected. Furthermore, local units indicate that they have no knowledge of the form and content of the necessary documentation to be provided and that there is no system of cooperation with the DUDI for the management of the case, of the state of the case or of the stage of settlement of the case and of the timely completion of the dossier. Often, DUDI justifies that they don't have enough expert personnel and that they're simply buried in an object. The IDS Club therefore considers it necessary to take a number of systematic measures to make a significant part of the property operational, i.e. make available to local and regional (regional) self-government units. We believe that the following needs to be taken: To amend and supplement legal regulations governing the availability of state-owned assets in such a way as to allow for real autonomy or independence, economics and efficiency in carrying out the activities of units of local and regional self-government. To speed up the procedures for the donation of assets that are not of particular national interest to local self-government units. Change the model of managing public housing fund for housing and business space funds in such a way as to transfer to city and municipality management, and the urgent handling of competent institutions in order to enable the urgent resolution of property legal relations that prevent and prevent investment and application of cities and municipalities for EU funds. I point out that units of local and regional self-government are well equipped with their own assets, as all units of local and regional self-government have received a passing grade from the State Audit. None of them have been evaluated ineffective or effective or partially effective. And now there's a question of where the problem is, whether it's at a local level or a state level. Most often, what Mr. Boban said was the problem arises precisely in this conflict, i.e. The state administration is in this case completely separate from local and regional state administrations. We often ask ourselves whether we're in the same country or whether we're looking at ourselves at a local level somehow differently. We feel that this government is now pushing the state administration reform right through the idea of abolishing local self-government units, i.e. the municipalities, cities and counties. What do we get? We also get further conflict between the state administration and the local government, each other calling, accusing us of inefficiencies, and the citizens, the economy, the welfare, the education, the health care that suffers damage because we turn out to be a trom, slow, inefficient, entrenched bureaucracy that does not solve their daily needs. Citizens are asked for administrative and other public services on the principle of one stop shop, a whole service in one place close to a citizen and an entrepreneur, which saves time and money, and receives a service within a short period of time. Who do you think on the ground at the base asks who is responsible for the non-resolvement of their demands, mayors, mayors, possibly mayors, and not officials sitting on the 20th floor in the skyscraper in Zagreb. And that is why we believe that the first thing to be done through a reform that announces a choice between a centralised or decentralised model of a state organisation. The existing system is designed when central government was defined as a central government model, which was understandable at the time. War, insufficient human professional potential for new municipalities. But after 23 years, we see that this model does not give the desired results and quality of solving faster development. It therefore takes political will to choose a decentralised model based on which to propose a different organisation of the country. Governments are changing, in pre-election campaigns everyone promises decentralisation but when they sit in power the same story, we continue to be centralised. And what we're experiencing today from these suggestions, we see that we're just going in that direction. That is why we in the IDS believe that decentralisation must expand the financial capacity of local units and thus allow units of local self-government to assume powers as well as a number of new jobs and responsibilities. Because they're real development generators. This should take into account the possible quality of use of local assets as well as the State audit recommends, as well as other state-owned resources to be entrusted to local units. If nothing else because we felt and saw from the review report that some are good at it, some are great, some are bad, let's be honest, but then we pass such a law that those who have proven themselves so far to know and that they can be left with just those properties that are not interesting to the state and bring them into office as quickly as possible. And all those who don't know or won't let them continue to fight to live on the country's balance of the budget, i.e. at the expense of those who work well and the full budget of the Republic of Croatia. In the end, we expect a new so-called. the reform governments to allow, through new legal regulations, unused resources to be put into place as soon as possible to create new values, to enable investors to invest faster and thus to retain existing and create new jobs. This prevents further draining of expert personnel from smaller environments into large centres or the worst departure from the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8734	Thank you. The replica was presented by distinguished representative Željko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8735	Dear Vice President, this is for our last colleague from the IDS who wonders how we can talk about efficiency,... to the units of local self-government when 6% of our land has been settled in 20 years since the end of the Homeland War. [[You don't understand.]] The question for the IDS gentleman, does he remember that in the '70s, the SFRY paid off I mean $15 or $20 million to the Italian minority? What about the Croatian minority? Here, if we're so effective, why is the character empty, where it was in '41? 132, these are not historical issues but are legal and moral issues, there were 132,000 Croats and now there are no 45 thousand. Where are those people? Whose land is this now? How could a Croat not return to Zrin and where they were before? What's going on here? These are the key problems. But you see from Rijeka, for example. I'll give you an example of people coming, investing their savings, going back to where they were and found in Istria where the most popular land occupied by their grandfathers sits people there, and that's... Rivers, Crikvenica, etc., from Zagreb to Konavla. [[You don't understand.]] It's the reality of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8736	Thank you. The distinguished representative Tulio Demetlika will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8737	To be honest, I didn't understand the question or replica of an esteemed colleague, but I would like to say that the management of real estate, whether it's construction or some other land, in the field of local self-government units, you have examples when you mention Istria, and you will see in the very report that the city on which I'm headed is also rated with that higher assessment of real estate management. So, of all the conditions, we can say that we're close to that set goal. And when we were in '93. We are going to determine our own assets and define a strategy in which to manage this property we have certain results today. However, I will try to attach myself to that question that Mr. Shucker mentioned that we in the units of local self-government are incompetent or that there is simply a way through always coming this objection of non-transparency and corruption at local level and this is often used as an argument by the opponent of decentralisation. I said let it be passed such a law that those units of local self-government who have proved themselves to be the most transparent, professional, quality management and management of their property, that it is property that stands for 20 years unused, and we know that the state is the worst master because those who sit in the State Administration in Zagreb don't know that there are 10 free business spaces in Labin today, that there are 3 apartments available today while the city's all in office. And what are the benefits of that space? We must say that they are also used for entrepreneurs with incentives, and apartments are largely social housing that will certainly not be sold. And what the government intends to do with the sale of these apartments fills the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8738	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative of Blaženko Boban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8739	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Members and as mayoral fellow Members and as representative of fellow Members most hurt the citizens, believe me, as well as the local communities abandoned, devastated spaces in the areas of the urban part of certain environments. These spaces of such abandoned nature are really urgent and necessary to pass some law that, here, will forgive me for taking it into my mouth here with my words former Minister Anka Mrak-Taritash made a beautiful law in that segment and this is about detailed plans. And if the local community adopts a specific detailed plan and has not equipped it with infrastructure within two years, the investor can build there regardless of the legislation he needs because the local community is obliged to do so within two years. And also only in the opposite direction should the regulation, the law, I don't know what to do that the state is obliged to objects and, above all, objects that are in the urban part of a particular local environment to bring them to a purpose or to leave them to the local community but that law and that regulation should set a deadline. Whether it's two or three years I don't know, the legislator will already come up with it, but it's necessary because it's mostly the Adriatic and coastal stings and the tourists' eyes as well as all the citizens of a certain local environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8740	Thank you. If there's no answer then we'll go to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party, distinguished representative Anka Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8741	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleague Klesic with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the report on the audit and efficiency of the management and availability of properties of units of local and regional (regional) self-government. And in my debate, I'd concentrate on the problem. This is where the speakers before me talked about the problem of state property management, and we'll have the opportunity to talk about it just the same way in this respected House. And when the relationship is state and local, or regional self-government, I'd say it's always true in the middle. There are some of them and bad examples, and there are good examples. This audit was carried out at the end of 2015 to 2016, related to business 2012, 2014 and covered all municipalities, cities and counties. And 32 grades were effective. That's 5.6%. Every indicator and every analysis is, I always graphically display them and it's good to display them in something called Gauss's curve. This Gauss curve says that about 65% of the results must be assessed in the middle as well, about that much on the left and so much on the right. It's obvious what we're talking about here. You can see that from all the indicators. Local and regional units, i.e. local and regional self-government, operate 22 thousand 425 business spaces. However, it is very convenient that they also manage 18 thousand 371 apartments. When you say a number like this and you put it in some reality, then we're numbers prone to hear and go on. But when you turn it, if there are three people living in each of these apartments, now the average Croatian family is three people. It is about living in dwellings managed by local, or self - government areas of 55 thousand 113 inhabitants. The town of Karlovac, the 9th city of Croatia's size in the Republic of Croatia, has 55 thousand 705 inhabitants. When the state property is the same, I put the analysis of state property in this relationship, so you'll see what we're talking about. When we talk about building land then local, or regional self-government manages 338.1 square miles. An example works on the surface of the city of Zagreb, which is made by the city of Zagreb... 68 settlements are 641 square kilometers long. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's just put it in relation to what we're talking about. So we are very inclined to talk about real estate all the time, about the real estate we have and there are lots of real estate in Croatia in the future, I will also analyse how to do what is used. But we really need to see what it is. Just as much as you let me do, this audit was done just fine. The HNS Club, the Liberal Democrats will absolutely accept this revision, it has been made excellent and it has been done professionally. I've also written down the laws that have been analysed so that this revision could be. And only when we talk about managing apartments, business spaces and building land whether it's built or not let me just read the laws that apply to it. This is the Law on management and availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia, so the Strategy for managing and making available the assets, so the Law on ownership and other real rights, so the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, which was worth up to 1.1.2014, is behind this, the Law on Spatial Planning. So the Law on the rental and purchase of business space, then the Law on renting apartments, then the Law on districts, cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, then the Law on Access to Information, then the Law on Associations, then the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions. A convenient data that is here and it would be good if when all reforms are being prepared, regardless of whether they are talking about the reorganisation of local and regional self-government, regardless of whether they are talking about the investment incentives that are in Croatia, it would be good to look at this material and also a series of other materials. In fact, it is still at the Ministry of Management of 217 items where certain municipalities and cities, based on the Law on County of Cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, have taken over the property of former municipalities, are still on arbitration there, still two around certain situations or certain rights. Similarly, 63 units of local self-government still have no record of what building land they have. This is in support of what the distinguished colleague on behalf of the IDS spoke before me and that our 555 municipalities and cities, 556 Zagreb is very uneven and in a different way really manages and indeed in any reform that needs to be taken into account. Similarly, in the DUUDIs, this moment is still a thousand requests ahead of resolution. I'm afraid it might be this moment more. There is no one who in this assembly who had the opportunity to be mayor, mayor or have whatever the basics of the problem with the state property and who when he went to DUDI had no feeling that everything had fallen into a abyss and was very difficult to solve there, and what needs to be solved should be dealt with experimentally. It is necessary to read from this report those indicators that say that the property should be recorded, that property should be well managed, that knowledge should be given to how to manage it, that the available strategy should be known, and that it should also have a record of everything available. In business spaces, of those 22 thousand 425, 2538 is used for their own needs, 2756 use companies owned by local self-government units. Ten thousand and 51 are on the lease. 3169 business spaces are used without a lease, which includes associations, political parties. 3473 business spaces are not used, they're devastated, they're empty. 438 is used illegally, of which I believe no one here will be surprised, that of those 438 used illegally, 412 is in the territory of the city of Zagreb. Similarly, when it comes to counties, Zadar and Istria County do not have a single square of business space in their own possession, which is not strange because the heritage of individual units of local self-government, or municipalities before were new municipalities. However, indicators suggest that there are municipalities and cities that have a business space while buying other business premises, which rent other business spaces for their own purposes and those who do not use them and also those who own them do not even have the need to put them into office. When it comes to apartments, so 18 371 apartments, 5824 protected tenants, 463 for official needs, 864 is for market conditions, 1979 is out of use, of course I was particularly interested in the city of Zagreb, 50% of the number outside of use are located in the area of Zagreb. 2041 apartments are used illegally. Of those used illegally, 63% is back in the Zagreb area. What's interesting is that only 5 counties have 29 apartments and 29 apartments, these 5 counties that they have received on one other basis, in another way. Apartments are extremely valuable real estate. It is equally necessary to have a model and should have conditions and should have criteria to make everything or define that apartments that are devastated, that these apartments are put into operation. I'm primarily talking about this report here. The report is on local and regional self-government. When we get a report on state property, so state property is also related to apartments, it's about agricultural and forest land, it's about building land, it's about industrial plants, it's about military, so military ones that are rated as non-prespective, there you'll see that the indicators are very different not to say bad. I'll give myself the right then to compare this state and the state of affairs when it comes to the state. We always swear on a good master. This shows how we're masters. And, of course, according to that good statistic, they all go in the same basket. There are those who are good masters but there are also those who are examples, who are bad masters. When it comes to land owned by the municipality and cities, 92.1% of the land should not forget those 63 if I am not mistaken who have no registered building land at all. The city of Zagreb has 7.4. However, when you look at it a little further then you see that the city of Zagreb, Zadar County, or Zadar County is wrong but the municipalities and towns of Zadar County, municipalities and towns of Split-Dalmatin County, Primorje-Goranska and Istria have 65.8% of the building land. This analysis was done just fine. The material was made equally well. The numbers say everything, the numbers just need a good look and an analysis. This analysis certainly needs to be seen in a much broader context, so this report, in a much broader context. This context should indeed be seen in which direction the reform of local or regional self-government should go. I've always stood up and I'll stand up in the future, a good master must be the one on the ground. When it comes to real estate, better lords of municipalities and cities than states are incomparably. There's a thing going on in the country that could never happen to us at home. Each of us at home knows how much property he has, knows if he has something, knows squares and more if someone still charges him the wrong communal fee he'll know it's the wrong square. But what needs to be done is that those who manage state property at the state level are equally good masters of the property because it is the property of all of us. This property is a potential, but it cannot be a potential if we do not know what we have if property legal relations are not resolved, unless court disputes are settled if it is not recorded, unless the cadastre and the grantovnica are harmonised. Thus, in the future, we need to take care of all of this. This material really commends it, because it's not just these numbers that I've been talking about that should be looked at. It should be seen overall, as it can be read not only on the reform of local, or regional self-government. This material can also be read about which way to go further in terms of encouraging investment, in terms of promoting development, in terms of encouraging and fixing the situation in space. The state-of-the-art process in space is one long-term process. Croatia has gained its statehood. With her statehood, she was also given a series of obligations. Under the obligations, ownership has not been adequately handled all these years. And today, when we speak, there is here, in one sentence or two sentences, the alignment of the katastre and the grantovnica is mentioned. We can formally create a common information system to get at the same place data. But computers are as stupid or smart as a man makes. Two good data will result in good data. In other words, what I'm trying to say. The ZIS will function perfectly where the cadastre and the garland are arranged, it will give good information. However, where the catastre and the garland are not arranged, you will not be able to get the information until you have done so. And it just takes a little bit in the memory of this law that I mentioned. You have at least one administrative procedure here to settle and one procedure that's out-of-parny. Therefore, the meaning of this report should be viewed significantly more but equally to remember the figures that are. And those figures really do one day and turn into something that's worth it, because the value we have is that we don't act like good masters. Here's your 15 minutes like that in the hair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8742	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First respected representative, Željo Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8743	I thank Miss Dark Tarritate for this exhausting, some things you've explained to me in statistics, etc. I'm glad we have some kind of database. But those statistics we quote here we have two problems just like the whole country. One problem is moral problems, moral problems, ethics because the only thing that works is some kind of criminogenic atmosphere and kleptocracy. We see it in public procurement, competitions, etc. That's gonna get a lot more out of hand these days. Second. Free statistics and this if we don't have that's another moral crisis management. How long does it take to remind the agency that a man restores his property? You have DUDI, the Department of Justice, you have another one of this trust fund, property compensation, etc. that then the man who seeks the return of his property was taken away that he was then 95 years old and so on. So, we've got an initiative to return the seized land. It works in Croatia. A rhetorical question, one question for Missis Mrak Tarritash how this one disappeared, that's a rhetorical question, how the catastrian chaos disappeared, and how are we going to solve it? For example, we have 2 million acres of agricultural land that has been taken away from people and we know what years it has been taken away. When we talk about it, when we talk about it, when we tell that beast by name what it was, and that was called nationalization based on module 30 and 6 of the second Stalin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8744	Thank you. Anka's distinguished representative, Mrak-Taritash, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8745	Thank you very much. So there must be a series of problems that were not created yesterday in Croatia and that cannot be solved by a magic wand that is safe, there are many people who would solve it with a magic wand. We have a cadastre which, therefore, Croatia is the only one left in the EU that has a special cadastre and has a special grantovnica, by registering their own status in the catastra, and this ownership situation had meaning there until '91. Until '92. Behind that, the state of ownership makes absolutely no sense because it's seen property toward the garter. And the property in the garland thank God we have old garters written with our hands. Ownership in the garland all the time when there was socialism didn't matter. So it was sold, sold in different ways. We're even missing nationalization and it didn't matter. And suddenly with change, not only did we get the state, we got a certain structure, we got economic change, and so property became important. It's one procedure that's not simple, a process that's complicated. However, we are certainly masters of further complexity. If anyone can talk about reform I give myself the right regardless of what my words praise me. I'm one of the people who spent it and it wasn't easy for me. The reform that we've begun to fix the situation in space refers to illegalization. They were all against legalization. There was no one who wasn't against legalization. And we decided to legalize the fact that the building in space exists. We didn't tie it to the cadastre, nor to the grantovnica, but it was the basis for the construction of the cadastre and grantovnica for the simple reason we are aware of this fact. It's a real reform of catastrophe and grunting, but a reform where you need 150 or 200 people, you need a clear idea. In doing so you must be very firm and very steely and know that you will have much more against than for. At the end when the laurels come, it's much simpler.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8746	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Blaženko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8747	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor. This is really where you brought out the fraternization report. Sometimes, however, numbers can be misleading. You really said the term manages, the local community manages so much land, and so it says there, and that's true, it owns a local community. But in many segments of this land are run by Croatian forests, and the title is the city. On many soil particles, the town is a local community, and it is a maritime good. Many of the particles of the country that enter this figure are managed by the local community and are located in the river corridor, are located in the road corridor, in the railway rail corridor and they are also an integral part of these figures here that you were talking about but the local community cannot manage them. One question perhaps, because you really are an expert in this domain, who owns it, I constantly because it hurts the most devastated properties in the urban area which did not enter the capital the local community cannot register on it and the state did not carry out the recording based on the 1996 Law. Who is the master of this facility, who is obliged to maintain it, who is obliged to take care of it? And in the end, I think in one word, so I'm going to put a point, all that's inside, every particle of the building that's within the building area of the spatial-planned documentation of a certain local administration must be the property of a city, of course, unless it's a private person and a natural person who owns it. That's how we solved all these problems. I think you agree with me on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8748	Thank you. Anka's distinguished representative, Mrak-Taritash, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8749	Dear Representative Boban, when it comes to these areas that are here, there are neither forest nor agricultural land they will be in those other areas when we see what is governed by the state. But here are the roads, there is the infrastructure that has municipalities and cities. The increase in building land occurred when roads came to management, unclassified roads to municipalities and cities that were on the one hand well that they came but on the other hand a series of municipalities and cities that received and certain obligations and certain burdens. So you'll see, I've even done some comparisons that will be for another opportunity, between the way the state manages and the way it manages local or regional self-government. These are indicators as they are and there is certainly as there are always those who do well and those who do less good or those who do bad. The state can't be praised, the state can't really boast, and the indicators that say that the way the state manages are much worse than this. But what you must know is that in Croatia you also have unbalanced and financial opportunities and opportunities to manage between individual units of local self-government. And this report actually points to that. And what you asked, it should, it's state property and the state should do it. But I really agree with you. In the future, we should take into account, not as we now have a situation, not one example, that the mutual state and individual municipalities or the city are being sued. It's an example when some investor comes from outside and when he hears it, it's not clear what we're talking about because we're all the same for him whether he's in the community, whether he's in the city or he's in some state body. And these are examples that are not good. We have through history two great examples that are so. One example is Mljet and the land that was sold there, and another example is on Solta where the Solta Municipality sold the land equally to find that it was forest land. Well, it was incomparably better as a good host and a good master of the state and the municipalities to sit at the table and make arrangements than to sue, and the investor on the side is looking, the investments are standing and he doesn't know what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8750	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Tulio Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8751	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Mrak-Taritash, it was my intention that you have now said in response to Mr. Boban that we should not detach locally from the state. You were a bright example in the former government where you just connected us through e-authorization, through legalization, and I believe that these were just examples of good cooperation of the state level with the local level where you as a state level had all the control mechanisms and established on us that we had to carry out our task. And that's why we're now saying that we in local self-government units are once again ready to take on other obligations in order to better manage this particular property that's ours. Whether it is listed in books as state property or as city or municipal but it is important how to manage it. Let's keep it state-owned. But today, we have cases, as Mr. Boban said, and you have repeated, that there have been ten-year disputes being held today, specifically with me in the city, with the state to prove whose property it is. The building is unfortunately collapsing and untapped. You mentioned the same in your speech that it was still going on in the books of new municipalities after the distribution of '93. And they couldn't register. The fact is that some have also signed up, but after that registration, the State Attorney's Office has appeared which, in order to protect state interests, gives a warrant in court and overwrites these assets on the property of the state that no one in the local self-government units has even informed us that we do not even know that this change has happened. So that's where you can see the incoherence. So my intention was to remove these disagreements in the future and, once again, to those units of local self-government that have proven themselves capable of being able to manage that property, to transfer that management to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8752	Thank you. Anka's distinguished representative, Mrak-Taritash, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8753	Well, my colleague Demetlika is just like that. So we're saying the same thing, maybe we're saying it a little differently, but we're saying the same thing. We're a country with 4 million and 200, 300 thousand inhabitants. Similarly, there is no way that when you come to Istria or wherever you come, someone must know or be related to someone or anything else. And then it's unclear for all of us when it comes to this kind of thing that the state together has to stand trial with its counties, or that the state should be tried with its municipalities. Well, that's the theme of sitting down and making a deal. What's important is that it doesn't fail, it's important to put it into function, to know the criteria and the conditions because really it's either us suing each other or not, it's going to stay the way it is. But what's really an ugly picture and that picture is when an investor gets an ugly picture then you need to know that it's got 100 investors because he's going to take the opportunity to talk about that ugly painting too. So the point is that DUDI, along with municipalities, with cities through new regulations, is to see exactly who manages what, and then if someone doesn't manage something well, so there's a method, the same thing has ways, the same thing has everything, the same thing has beatings. Therefore, if we know that the representative council, or mayors if it is not a budget, were spatial plans, it was a method that managed to bring all the spatial plans in Croatia, and that is one of the methods, but for this we need to know clearly what is wanted and consistently implement it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8754	Thank you. We move on to the next line, the esteemed representative Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8755	Comrade Tarritash, I have listened to you, your exposure, and you have said a lot of things I have never heard from anyone as much as you have. And I see you've done your job well. I thank the audit that she did equally usefully and every time she proved some 570 gaps, only 32 are positive. It means there's something wrong with it. I'm now asking one question, what good are we, and what use do we have of 18 thousand apartments, 22,000 business spaces, and I don't know how many land 332km square. I listen to it as a businessman, listen to the mayors, they're in the interest of having state property so I can rent it, so I can give it to someone. If I were to ask myself, I would make a different turn in all of this, I would go there for sale, but one public sale that would be made public on our Croatian television and that all people would see in Croatia how to trade and how much to give. So that property should sell, settle some of the costs that this country is in debt and what the state is leading and what all of us see that's not going well. And we know that well if there are more owners that this job isn't good. I thank you for this report of yours, and I hope if we've discussed it every year for 20 years, and the review probably had a story about it every year, so whether we're going to discuss it another 20 years or we're going to go to a solution to that problem that we all see together that it's not good. Let's get this over with and let's not drag it away from year to year and talk about it. Let's solve this and see how this country can benefit the greatest of it and this people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8756	Thank you. The distinguished representative Anka Mrak-Taritash will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8757	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, the review is not, I've seen this report for the first time, I don't know if it's been related to property owned by local self-government units so far. I've seen it this way for the first time, and I think it's done for the first time. So that, uh... Revision is one new job we have, and every year it does something else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I agree with you in part, when you said I was doing a good job, making a little joke. But this should teach you a lesson. You sell once, you sell once, you earn once. So it's not always the same, it's not always the sales model, but there should be smart in managing it. I wasn't here on purpose talking about the values of these properties. I deliberately did not speak about the values of these properties for the simple reason that in 2015 the Real Estate Assessment Act was first adopted in Croatia. He caused a lot of turbulence, especially in real estate appraisers, before the use itself, because he defined how real estate is evaluated. And they're evaluated under three models. One model is marketable, one model is parallel and one model is income. This is how the property estimated here is assessed in accordance with the Budget Law and those rules on the right fiscally, but that is not the real value of these properties. It'll be interesting to see and it should be done through a year or two of the real value of the real estate that we have and then evaluate, it's not always good everything and sell, sometimes it's good to have something and make money. Imagine if there were municipalities or cities or states that make money on their real estate, so that would be, it would actually be a job and it should be pursued.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8758	Thank you. And the last replica of the distinguished representative Darko Paric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8759	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues of Taritash when you mentioned the ZIS, or the land information system, then I decided to report to the replica. This is precisely why, in particular, the ZIS is a great wonderful information project that is excellent in all respects and that should have solved a lot of our problems. He should have thoroughly solved the garter and the cadastre and the merger of everything, however, the problem is that he didn't solve anything. And he didn't solve anything because the ZIS project was designed to manage the data that the system, the state, administration would insert into that ZIS, however, we didn't put almost anything there let's say so. So that the ZIS today doesn't use its function as it should. In translation, we have a parked Mercedes in the garage and we don't drive it because we don't have gas. And until we buy gas and pour that gas into that Mercedes, we walk on the trams or whatever you want. On the other hand, my experience says there's no problem in the world that can't be solved one way or another. And my impression that here in Croatia, for many years, we have been very fond of mystifying how difficult, complicated, can't do this, can't run away from anything and don't solve it for years. A wonderful example of solving one great mystified thing legalization that you mentioned. 20 and how many years we've all been saying it's impossible, that it's like this, that it's like that, that it's all broken up and built, and I don't know what's been done, it's 4, 5, 10, 15, 300, it doesn't matter how many smart people have made one system, it's one law, it's done a little bit of information ad-hoh that's brought a couple hundred people on the project to do this project, and how well I know legalization is solved today, or it's done at the end of the resolution. But it's one of the problems that was at least as big as solving land books and everything else and it's behind us. What I want to say in these two seconds is what I have left. We can absolutely solve any problem but we need to find people and the political will to solve it, for legalization we found it, I don't see any problem to do the same for this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8760	Thank you. Anka's distinguished representative, Mrak-Taritash, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8761	Thank you very much. Actually, I have nothing to say but say you're right. So computers are as smart as we make them smart, with... two exact data that will generate the third exact data but two wrongs can't give the exact information. I have to admit and take this opportunity, already and in the afternoon, we're all a little tired that by accident, if we were in power and we weren't in opposition as we were, and I was already talking, and I prayed whether I believed it or not, I said I'd really like to do a more consistent cadastre and garter, it's a great job for me, but you have to give me open hands and you have to trust me. So open arms, believe it, 200 people who know and change the laws. Just for example, I've still got those minutes, so I'll use it. You, the surveyor, come in, measure your plot, then go to the administrative procedure where he hears the neighbors, the administrative procedure goes to the appeal and goes to the administrative court twice. You just got rid of the geodes, now you're going to the garter, now you come to the garter and at first it's like it wasn't all there, we're hearing the neighbors again, they have the possibility of a complaint, we have the possibility of a lawsuit again. It's just complicated and it can't go like that. So, change the law that is related to the cataster, change the law that is related to the grantovnica, make a single law, make one procedure and do indeed 100, 200 people and give them two or three years and let the machine, just let the construction part of Croatia be taken care of. 6.5% of Croatia was built, 6.5%, these are all agricultural and forest land, water and everything else, so if we took out 6.5 3.5% in three or four years then we would know what we were managing. It's really like that. I'll just mention the e-registration, I'll use the time, you know what was the basic problem with the E-licence, the 800 references that do the license, when 800 referents started to do the e-registration then it could be given in the shortest possible time, so they're always the problem of people.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8762	Thank you. The next individual debate, distinguished representative Josip Boric, but I don't think he's in the assembly, thus losing his right to debate. We move on to the next debate, the distinguished representative Maria Puh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8763	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Mr. Clesic. So, I agree that the report was excellent, it covered absolutely everything that was to be covered in that report but a little while reading that report and recalling its talks with the mayors and mayors, one point in that report got a little stuck in my eye. Namely, one of the problems is that municipalities and cities do not work on enrolment procedures, their rights of ownership in land books, and do not coordinate data with land books and a disaster. In fact, I'm asking for advice now that I know how to pass it on to them. One part is this part of our part of Zagorje and Slavonski di are very small particles on which there is a major problem with a large number of owners who are not still registered while, for example, in the Primorje part there are larger particles and more valuable amounts of individual particles. In fact, units of local self-government come to real estate most often by law because they have to inherit when there are no heirs or if heirs give up their rights. With us in Zagorje, we generally have some small particles or small objects that are simply unusable, they can't even be put into operation, and when municipalities and cities go into the clearing of ownership relations and when they go to enrolling their property, it would generally turn out to be much, much more expensive than that land itself, or that property itself, and now the question is whether it's actually profitable for municipalities and cities to spend their budget money on something that will never work in the remote parts, but in the end, they're going to spend a lot more money than it's worth. Let's say one comparison with us is generally worth 5 kuna per metre square metre while in Primorje where locations are more attractive and prices cross and much more than 100 euros per metre squared. So I think that there should be some solution, some advice to these municipalities and cities that have problems with such real estates, that this should not be burdened with them, or that they should find some other way to lead them, that they do not spend their resources that are small in large cases, that they do not spend on it, rather than on keeping budgets for the European Funds and other things, rather than on clearing up property property that unfortunately will never be possible to put into office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8764	Thank you. A distinguished representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinovic, appeared in the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8765	Here's a colleague, which you're giving a clear example of, but there's this in all the county, especially with us, there's a lot of you and with us in Dalmatia, that on a small particle you've got so many entered, and by the existing laws, it's impossible to fix it. We must go into radical change. One Austria and the best model is Austria. Austria entered Bosnia and Herzegovina after the Berlin Congress in 1878. From the Tapi system in a year, she's done all the land books. That's what Ivo Andric writes in his novels, not having an intensification on it, but a famous one of his sentences: "And learn to go more to grantovnica than to a pub." So what is it? It should simply be under legal threat of loss of ownership or payments to co-owners to force all owners who are enrolled to choose to settle their land books, their property. So, Austria which is about as big as Croatia has several times less particles than we do. And they solved it with other laws of the Law of Inheritance. After a certain size of the plot can no longer be shared among the heirs either those sons or daughters or husband or husband. That particle can't be shared. It can only belong to one. So we can change a whole series of laws. Austria can be our role model. Here's me pleading for both the ruling and you to get into this business.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8766	Thank you. The distinguished representative, Maria Puh, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8767	Thank you, colleagues, for the suggestion. Here I agree with you. For example, we know that there are over a hundred owners who are already dead and fifty years old and then these trial procedures, the dead, and I don't know how it's been going on for years and years, and it's a pretty expensive process, so I agree that the sooner we need to find legal solutions, that the grantine, the cadastre and all of this is in order, and that we finally have clean land books, clean property, and that we will also facilitate the units of local self-government and the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8768	Thank you. We're moving on to the next individual debate. The word has a distinguished representative Davor Penic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8769	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The State Audit Office detected problems about the management and availability of properties of units of local administration, self-government. The audit covered all units with 22425 business spaces and 18371 apartment and building land of about 340 million squares. The audit found that from 2012 to 2014 revenue of EUR 2.8 billion was achieved in those areas, which is not small money. The audit also found that 438 business premises are used illegally, meaning 34360 m2 is used illegally and is not placed in the function of 3473 business premises and 1979 apartments. So the big public property wasn't put into operation. The audit found that 32 entities, i.e. 5% of processed entities, are effectively paying attention to the good master to manage this public property and maintain this property. The audit also found that legislation should change that we have a large number of pending requirements of local administration units to DUDI, that there are management problems, in maintaining a public housing fund. The audit also found that the vast majority of local self-government units do not have fiscal capacity in their budgets to allocate the significant assets that should actually be listed in their assets, to participate in administrative disputes, to hire lawyers to solve the problem. The facts identified by the audit are that most units do not have data on the real state of their assets, so they do not have a list of assets, and in order to determine it from the discussions of my predecessors, a number of problems have been identified in this regulation in order to exercise the right to property. Business books do not include the entire assets and are not subject to obligations. So, besides this non-registration of the Property Register, there is no property management strategy. Thereafter, no analysis of the economic justification of investment was carried out in the acquisition of some new properties. I think the revision has opened our eyes to show us what the problem of managing this public property is and to tell us that by putting this valuable property into operation, we will increase the fiscal capacity of local self-government units so that they can invest in the development of the economy and that they can also maintain municipal infrastructure and social programmes and all of the other functions that the local self-government units have. And I fully support this report that actually points to problems, and we ourselves have to go through this House to improve legal regulation, to solve these problems that we have as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8770	Thank you. The replica was reported by distinguished representative Tulio Demetlika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8771	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, I'll do it quick and quick. You told a colleague and an esteemed representative that there was big money. I say they're very small. For what reason? From all these rental apartments, the business premises of the local self-government unit are just losing. For what reason? Because that's what I said to the apartments that are most often rented as protected tenants and pay minimum rent, so the local self-government units pay a bigger price than they charge the membership fee. So there's a minus. You asked the question that it was not justified, i.e. that there is no economic justification for investment. When one of these more residential buildings is being reconstructed, especially now through energy efficiency, the local self-government unit as the owner of the apartment invests through the rent of the apartment and it will not return it in the next 50 years. The next thing you know, you're saying that we need to rebuild and invest in these areas right now, and that's where the non-economic justification is. And yet I wanted to say, business spaces, don't count on those business spaces that are in some parts of like, Slavonia in the rural part that are business premises as well as in Zagreb because these business premises are rented just as an incentive to business owners, small entrepreneurs, craftsmen, deficits at the lowest possible prices. That's exactly the incentive of the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8772	The honourable representative Davor Penic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8773	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow I spoke generally at the level of all Croatia, I did not talk about the price of squares in my Dubrovnik-Neretva County because this report shows that the price of squares has increased by 10 times in the last year compared to in the city of Dubrovnik in 2012. So, I didn't define myself in certain areas, but I spoke in general. And I was saying that for a decision by the owner of ownership when a unit of local self-government wants to determine what their real property has to do with a administrative dispute. And it costs, that procedure takes a long time and requires great financial resources to hire witches, lawyers. That's what I said. And even at this suggestion of yours for business spaces in small cities and larger cities, these larger cities have more problems with the business spaces in the city center because these big trade chains first come to large cities where there are more people and then give them the arranged super-organized spaces and less rent than in the city center and thus attract traders. And then these spaces gawk empty. That's the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8774	Thank you. We move on to the next individual debate, the word has a distinguished representative Darko Paric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8775	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I have to admit, at the very beginning of this debate, I didn't plan to report or discuss at all, but then somehow I got inspired, and here I answered. I also have to admit that I answered the most because I was starting to feel like you were watching that movie "Endless Day" where Bill Murray plays and where he experiences the same things from day to day. It seemed very similar to me for a moment in this House even though I haven't been in the Parliament for so long, but I had the opportunity to watch it on TV and watch everything that was going on. In fact, every year, we have some audits every year, some analysis where here in the Parliament we are deeply researching why some things are like this, why property is not solved in the state of Croatia, why do we not manage it properly, why no grantovnica is solved, why a cadastre? We all agree in the Parliament that it's a disaster, that something needs to be done. We all agree that someone really needs to do something, and then Parliament ends up, we all go home, and that same point next year, at a similar age, we're talking again and we haven't done anything in between. What I am deeply convinced is precisely because of this problem of mismanagement of property and state, after all and unresolved relations between citizens, we have a lot of chaos on the ground, a lot of messy situations. So, for example, in my town of Split, in one of the better urban parts of the city of Split, there are large, very abandoned spaces that belong to the Republic of Split that are so abandoned that they even threaten to infect the people who live there. That's the problem of this country because it doesn't solve the issue of ownership and everything else with those spaces. And what I absolutely understand is that there is no reform, there is no efficient public administration, there is no doing business and anything, and any reform that needs to be done until these fundamental issues are resolved. Because we're free to do business and open a company in one day and if we solve it with papers if all the other issues regarding ownership of anything lasts for two years. How many times do you read in the newspaper that different investors have just left Croatia because they have been unable to resolve the issue of some secondary or divine property? Someone here in the Parliament said that it is precisely the property of modern society and, in my experience, it seems to me that this is the case except for us in Croatia. And it also seems to me that we are not working hard enough to solve this issue at all, and sometimes I wonder if it is in anyone’s best interest not to get rid of it. I was just talking about problems and my experience in the lineup of a colleague named Anki Mrak-Taritash. I really don't think there's one problem that can't be solved. I think any problem can be solved in the final time with the right tools and the right methods of solving that problem. But in Croatia, not only in this part of Croatia, there is a powerful mystery of the problem in many parts, and then because they look so terrible and we don't solve many of them at all. I'll only remember four years before today means four years ago the building permit was terribly complicated and ask God how long it lasted. To take out the birth certificate and these similar “silent” documents, the lame under quotes of a natural thing, was also very complicated if you do not live in which you were born by miracle or already do not know what or how. With not-so-ingenious moves and not-so-great reforms, or I don't know what you're having today, you're having a situation where you get these documents from general life, birth certificates, and the rest you're taking out on the Internet where you can think of them, and you get building permits in one day. Even if you remember the election campaign half a year ago or already how much at one point HDZ said it would simplify the issue of building permits and only take 5 days. And at that moment, the issue of building permits lasted only one day. In doing so, I do not want to politicize the subject, but I want to tell you that complex things can be solved with enough effort and effort so that it does not know too much about all this, that even those who are competitors for taking over power in the meantime do not notice such a thing. And just before, through the talks, we concluded in principle that there was also a huge problem that plagued this state that was an illegal construction and that no one wanted to touch 20 or what, 22 or 23 years. And finally, in just a year's time, the foundations were laid, both legally and technically and operationally, to solve such a thing. And today it's settled. If you asked someone in 2011, what with that said you wouldn't touch it, it's hard, it's complicated, that dear God won't solve it. It got rid of her. It was solved with effort, work, and what is very, very important with political will. What's my impression, fixing property issues over real estate, government issues, whatever you want, sorting out garter issues, catastrophes, and everything else I wouldn't call reform at all. That's fixing the situation on the ground. And only when we fix that situation on the ground can we do some other reforms that will be based on it. As we've concluded, without taking care of the data on the ground, there's already not much of a function. And when you talk about how huge a job is, how hard it is to do something, how can you not go into it, there's a saying or how do you say you know how to eat an elephant? You just cut it into pieces, you eat it piece by piece, and one day you'll definitely eat that elephant. That elephant was legalized a while ago. I'm deeply convinced that this elephant today is solving the garter, the catastra, the property and everything else. And I think it's just a matter of political will and a decision to have someone decide to do something like that and start eating that elephant. And it is unquestionable that one day soon or sooner or later that elephant will be eaten and that we will finally have everything settled. What I am convinced is that no Western European country has such a schlamper as we do when it comes to their real estate and what is in their possession. Well, it's probably one of the reasons why in many things they're so much more successful than we are because we really treat our properties and our own things, unfortunately, as bad masters. And that's the constant of these 25 years that we've been going on. And I think it's about time we tried and started changing these things. In this assembly, we're discussing this point if I'm not mistaken today for 15 hours and they've been discussing more clubs, more representatives, and it's great that we've all agreed that this is a problem that weighs everything, and that we need to solve it. And I absolutely agree with everyone as well that this problem needs to be solved. And then if there's anything we can do, let's see how we can work it out. We are the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, we can look and find and conclude and commit anyone in this country to do something. Then let's commit this government and the future government and any government to address these problems as a priority. Let's have a thematic session, do whatever you want. Let's come up with one such conclusion that it's a priority that needs to be solved. As I've already said experience in solving these problems, we have this experience from 2, 3 years ago. It's not a problem to solve anything if we decide to solve it. After all, both roads and highways and railways and all living and dealing with these property legal relations are being built in this country when it is important to get rid of them. So let's go if that's so important and it's important, let's send a message from this House, a conclusion, or whatever you want to commit to the government to go into something like that. What I'm convinced of, to solve this and any of this guy's problems is all about political will. Under 1. And after that, a lot of work. Work is never a problem and people who will work we have and people who will work will find themselves at a certain or indefinite time. The question always and the one where very often we as a state and as a Parliament and as a government fall is political will. If we all agree in this House, I say again, my impression is that we agree, then political will exists. Let's turn this political will as the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia into some concrete decision that will oblige the government to move this political will into reality. Because like I said, it's a problem to solve. In the past two years, we have a prescription that solves the problem more or less of the same proportions as this one. Here, thank you very much. Anyway, let me just finish, I'm sorry, one more sentence. Otherwise next year we'll see each other again in this same composition and we'll re-exploit why something isn't solved, how it should be solved. So if we get back on the same thing, I'm going to remember this debate of mys, so I'm going to repeat it on this endless day from the beginning. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8776	Thank you. I don't think there's a respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic, who answered for the replica. We're jumping over and going to the esteemed representative Davor Penic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8777	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Parić, you have been great at detecting the problem of management and space and property. You gave good guidance for state, purpose and use of space. My suggestion that we in this House should encourage legal regulation in order to speed up the process of establishing titleholders of ownership in order to enroll those properties in the ownership books of local self-government units and so that they can manage them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8778	The honourable representative Darko Paric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8779	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Namely, I have one home friend who has little children just as I do, and then one of the frequent sayings of a friend for her six-year-old son when she says theory 5 and practice 0, wanting to challenge something she does or doesn't do. The fact that I've been great at detecting something and everyone here is basically us as far as we were today, we've all been great at detecting it, and we probably did it last year and before last year, but this practice is 0. My intention and the intensity of my debate was to start that practice from 0 to spend it in some better number, to be there 3, 4, 5 or something. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8780	Thank you. And now we've exhausted individual debates. Does the reporter want anything at the end of the report? No, I don't. Thank you very much. That concludes today's debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. To announce, tomorrow's start of work is usually at 09.30 and we start with a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Spatial Planning. Thank you. Nice greetings and good-bye to your colleagues and colleagues. Session interrupted at 17.36 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-28-0.u8781	The following is the report on the audit of the effectiveness of the management and availability of the property of the local and regional (regional) self-government unit. The applicant is the State Audit Office. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: The report on the effectiveness of the management and availability of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government is accepted. Please vote. Who's to conclude? I'm asking for a result. 126 for, 2 abstentions, none against. I find that most of the votes have come to the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Good morning, colleagues and colleagues. I'm asking you to sit down and start working. Dear Representative Silvano Hrelja... And well, well, esteemed representative Furio Radin. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here it is, make up your mind, mostly, the distinguished representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
