ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2451	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with his plan and programme of work, the State Audit Office carried out financial audits in 64 public institutions in culture, 23 libraries, 19 museums, 17 theatres and 5 other institutions from September 2014 to April 2015. And the report on the audit was submitted to the Croatian Assembly in April 2015. The revenues and receipts of the audits of the institutions covered in 2013 amounted to 881.8 million kuna and expenditures of 894.7 million kuna. The objectives of the audit were to establish the truthfulness and credibility of the financial reports for 2013, to analyse the achievement of income and income, expenditure and expenditure, to verify compliance with the laws and regulations and to verify and assess the effectiveness of the use of funds. Like everyone else, this one was done in accordance with... international audit standards. On the basis of the facts identified, opinions on financial reports and the business of institutions have been expressed. 31 unconditionally, 32 conditional and one unfavourable opinion was made. It is the Croatian National Theatre Ivan Noble Zajc in Rijeka. The audit found that the financial plans of individual institutions are not realistic and comprehensive, some work programmes are not in line with the financial plan. Business events are recorded on the basis of incomplete accounting documents, cash traffic through a cash register in some institutions is significant, and the cashier's business is not properly managed. The institution's own incomes are used to pay the stimulating part of the salary or compensation higher than the collective contract established even in the case of... lack of income and significant commitments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Most of the institutions paid for the stimulating part of the salaries without clearly established criteria, the institutions leased a business space without a public tender and without the consent of the founders whose premises are owned. Some premises are used by tenants after the end of the loan agreement. In the case of individual institutions, expenditure on copyright contracts and contracts for works has been achieved at almost the same amount as for employees. Copyright contracts are concluded with external contractors as well as with employees. Some institutions have concluded copyright contracts with employees and paid the copyright fees on a continuous basis, several months which have the character of more permanent work. Without applying the prescribed procurement procedures in 2013, goods and services worth 13.9 million kuna were purchased. Mr. President, esteemed MPs and MPs, in this presentation, I have pointed only to some of the most significant facts regarding the revision of public institutions in culture. All data on financial reports and business of institutions for 2013 orders and recommendations related to irregularities identified by the audit were provided in individual reports of the audit carried out to you and published on the website of the State Audit Office of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2452	Thank you very much. Now we'd like to move on to the presentations of the representatives' clubs. And the first one, on behalf of the HRID Representatives Club, will be spoken by distinguished counterpart Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2453	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to say right now that we're going to support this report even though there are a lot of problems we've just heard. In this presentation, I should actually single out the most important. One problem that is most important here is management. As we know in 2017 big interest on loans will arrive which will require actually drastic cuts and these cuts will include, of course, institutions in culture. And as we know for several years now, the funds have been reduced to those institutions in culture. So the good part of them isn't really insolvent. As we know, in order to apply to the EU, the funds of the institutions must be solvable, so they cannot be depreciated. What shocked me when I started working at the public administration was that there was no normal communication between related institutions. Let's say between the Ministry of Resorship and individual institutions. My experience is that it's absurd but it's often easier to reach the Minister of the Netherlands or Germany than to reach the Minister of Resort. This more situation can be a situation if the head of the institution is from one political option and the resolution minister is from another, which is also often happening. These institutions are something largely considered a marginal issue in politics, and they are mostly remembered by the government when a more significant anniversary is to be marked or an exhibition is to be opened. Because cultural institutions aren't really profitable. For the last few years, I've been working in an information facility. And this institution should have great significance in both academic and university and cultural communities and they call it so-called. The temple of culture. I can tell you what my first-hand experience is, there's a lot of internal problems, of course there's a problem out there. When I say, when I talk about problems, specifically national and university libraries in Zagreb, problems and other cultural institutions are so similar to these problems that when I talk about one institution in culture, it can be said that I am talking about all institutions in culture. There's a lot of problems, but I have to focus on limited time just for certain ones. When someone comes out like me to an institution in culture and generally to the public administration quickly realizes that metaphorically speaking, it is in one ball that only wraps itself more instead of simplifying itself. So it's mostly done on the principle that jobs are crumbed in the smallest detail, there's a lot of reports, memos, then it's all arranged. In short, rather than simplifying a lot of things, it's complicated. And you still have a problem that since the administration of these institutions is appointed to a political mandate of four years, it is often such that one of the internal problems is that the subordinated administrations, often better educated, have greater knowledge and skills, more expertise than the leadership itself, which is politically appointed and also there is a collision. We see that institutions are funded from the budget, only a small part are their own resources. And so today when it comes to savings, I said in the first sentence that interest comes in 2017, even more funds will be cut for these institutions, we are thinking about how to save, we are thinking about how to make these institutions solvable. Information is something that is very current today, and when we say the word "information" we hear in the second sentence, it's very expensive, it costs a lot, etc. But that's not true and it doesn't have to be true. I think of numbers, I don't know 12 million kunas for software for the Ministry of Health if I'm not mistaken, 25 million kuna for some software, united data, etc., etc. It is clear that the management of information and general management of institutions in culture is not good. I'm not going to generalize, I don't like to generalize, but certain cases actually support these sentences of mine. Money is spent as if it had an excess instead of using more rational solutions. And the more rational solutions have very much and need not reveal hot water specifically when we talk about information that today is one of the most important segments of institutions in culture. Information projects involving digitisation, and digitisation of cultural and historical heritage is something that is today, something that is part of a fundamental business institution in culture. It's being conducted in a way that every institution works for itself. In every ministry or establishment, you have an IT department, but that department does actually marginal work. All applications are ordered from the most basic to the most complex, according to my information 97% of these are ordered from external companies and what is absurd, so this is paid from the state budget. You have a situation where an application has been ordered, let's say I don't know how to digitize magazines, books, pictures, cards, it doesn't matter. This application has been paid neatly from the state budget and now you need to complete that application in some small detail. This is, of course, additionally paid to the external company again for money from the state budget and thus the figure keeps growing and growing and these are not minor figures. It can be up to 250, 300 thousand kuna, and it's actually creating a very expensive addictive relationship of the facility with that external company. Right now, according to my information, there are approximately no misstatements, but at least twenty institutions that have important projects to digitise cultural and historical heritage precisely for the reasons that they are made, we can say harmful contracts with external companies. Of course, there is a need to digitise cultural and historical heritage and no one is slowing it down. But I wonder why it goes to private companies, and the state's money is being spent. Is that quality management? And of course not. I'm just wondering if the damage has been done out of ignorance or if the damage has been done for some other much worse reasons. One important problem is that the public institution’s IT team has far less paid than the IT programmer who is in the private company, so that there is an increasingly negative selection and of course that strengthens the need for the engagement of these external companies, which of course costs. For a long time, the European Commission has warned that management of information and general governance in public administration and cultural institutions is therefore very bad and far below the European average. Instead of, say, libraries and museums can exchange each other with this digital structure, which is now one of their basic businesses each works for themselves in the following way. You, under normal circumstances, when you put Miroslav Krleža in an app, the search engine, in some unique united info counter should get from Miroslav Krleža all in one place. So, a digitized book, an old newspaper, a magazine, a manuscript, some article even, a photograph of his would if he were somewhere and she was digitized. So it's all in one place and it's how countries do it where it's well managed. Why do we have it like this? Those are questions I'd like to hear the answers to. Since the mid-1990s, the European Commission has been insisting since the mid-1990s on using a unique platform that allows for what I said to be used by open standards, to use open source software instead of the ownership software that creates a slave relationship with the external company. And then there wouldn't be a situation if you were actually addicted to these foreign companies all the time. I wonder if someone will finally, and here I think of the new secretary of administration and also of some ministers, start to worry about the efficient spending of money in this sense and about the systematic organisation of jobs. Unfortunately, my experience is that there is actually a lot of prejudice on open standards and on open source software. And that's where I'd say it's really all out of ignorance. I said that the European Commission is making great efforts in education countries, but you may not know that over 50 documents have been brought. The last resolution of the European Parliament was that public administrations and all institutions, in November 2015, should systematically switch to open source software. Of course, every country has a freedom to decide and that's why we're in this situation. It seems to me last month, that on January 20th and the French Parliament voted for open-air software to enter the legislation. And I think, and otherwise France already has a lot of ministries and is very advanced on this matter both the economy and the financials and the gendarmes. They only use this option. In 2002, Denmark submitted a report that if the public sector moved to open standards and open source software instead of this ownership relationship, it would save 500m euros for only 4 years. I think he's saying enough. I could now make a long list of arguments as to why our public institutions and, of course, culture institutions should go this way. So I would like this report, which speaks of the difficult financial situation of our institutions in culture, but also of the inefficient spending of money, of poor governance, to actually be an incentive for someone to consider that our institutions are going this way. I'd say it's really the last train now, because when these interest rates arrive in 2017, some institutions will really be on the verge of existence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2454	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Darko Paric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2455	Thank you, Mr. President. Naim, my colleagues, when you were talking about the fragmentation of the state system in culture under the terms of information, I think that you were most definitely right, and that is a problem that is not only a problem in institutions in culture, but also many other, many other parts of the state apparatus. I will just remind myself that a good step in this whole respect has been made in the public administration system in part of electronic services, where, for the first time in the last few years, all relevant information systems have been united in order to finally get electronic services from the Republic of Croatia that were really impossible to get online. So I can remind you today that citizens of the Republic of Croatia can get, say, a birth certificate or a housewife on the Internet anywhere in the world while up until a few small years ago they had to travel by cars and how to do so in Croatia. In principle, one systematic approach to this whole story was deserved, and I ended up a project by an e-citizen who united all of this on some kind of applicative level. I think it's a good way to go for this part of culture, with a lot of conjecture coming true. And another comment related to the open source, absolutely implementing the use of the open code I personally support as an advocate and profession as well. However, there is also a lot of open issues, such as the competences of people you yourself said that work in a state administration that we don't have at this point. So the use of the open code itself in the state of public administration isn't exactly simple in a way that we just take and that's it. I think there's a lot of work to be done in order to actually work in such a way as education and employment of people who will generally be able to support and Handlain the complete part of the open source. And as long as we don't do something like that in the state and the administration, I'm afraid the open source story will always be in some way on the flossulas as we need it and we'll be away from the real situation that we can really do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2456	Thank you very much. The distinguished representative Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2457	I agree that something has been done about this, but I welcome this e-citizen project, which is modeled by the British model, but it does not stand for this remark that you said about the open source that things must remain floscule. If there were indeed political will for systematic application, it could have been implemented because, back in the '90s, the European Commission's inputs, in this regard, were constantly coming from the European Parliament. In 2010, as far as I know, the European Commission has published guidelines for the procurement of open source software in public administration, which means a comprehensive document that includes all aspects and technical and legal and financial. So, you just had to organize it in executive power, either through the Ministry of Administration, or through some working groups. It's not true that there aren't enough expert personnel in our public administration. I responsibly claim that there is and on this issue has been done in a part-time manner, however, it is not therefore united. And responsibility for why it is not united and why it is not better organised is always in the executive power and in the resolution ministries. In 2009, the Ministry of Administration was established by emergency procedure as far as I know because the European Commission objected, and these were serious objections, that the public administration was not well organised and that the information was insufficient and inadequate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2458	Thank you very much. The next one, on behalf of the Club of Representatives HSLS-BUZ, will be taken by the distinguished representative Gordana Rusak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2459	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The report that we are discussing today concerns if you noticed well on 2013. We're in 2016 today. This report is on the parent committee under review in May 2014. All of this together might not be so worrying if it was a report that spoke about some kind of correct financial business of institutions in culture but it was a report far from that. If some syntagma could best describe that report then it would be a financial horror. According to the auditors, there is almost no segment of financial activity more than half of the institutions in culture in which there are no serious labour irregularities found. 31 unconditionally, 32 conditional and 1 unfavourable opinion is expressed. For objective information to the public and for the fact that there must be no collective guilt for something that they did but did not do to each other. I will list institutions that have received a conditional or unfavourable opinion. So, the conditional opinion is expressed for the Archaeological Museum Istria Pula, the Archaeological Museum Zadar, the Centre for Culture Čakovec, the City Museum of Vukovar, the City Theatre of Gavella Zagreb, the City Theatre Joza Ivakić Vinkovci, the City Satirical Theatre Kerempuh Zagreb, the City Library of Krapina, the City Library of Marko Marulić Split, the City Library of Rijeka, the City Library and the Vinkovci reading room, the City Library of Vukovar, the Croatian State Archive of Zagreb, the Croatian National Library of Osijek, the HNK in Šibenik, the HNKK in Zagreb, the HNK in Split, the Public Institute in the Dubrovnik Summer Games, the Museum Virovitica, the Library of the City of Zagreb, the concert hall of Vatroslav Lisinski Zagreb, the Museum of Brod of Slavonski Brod, the Museum of Gostić, the Museum of Dubrovnik, the Museum of the Museum of Slavic, the Museum of Slavic, the Museum of Slavic, the Museum of the Museum of the Museum of the City of the Museum of the Museum of the Museum of the Museum of the Museum of the Museum of the Museum of the Museum of the Museum of the Museum of the Museum of the Museum of the Museum of the Croatians and the Croatians, the Museum of the Croatians, the Museum of Zagreb, the Museum of Zagreb, the Museum of Zagreb, the Museum of Zagreb, the Museum of Zagreb, the Museum of Zagreb, the Museum of the Museum of Zagreb, the Museum of the Museum of the Museum of the Museum of Zagreb, the Museum of the Museum of Zagreb, the Museum of Zagreb, the Museum of the Museum of Zagreb, the Museum of Zagreb, the Museum of Zagreb, the Museum of Zagreb, the Museum of Zagreb, the Museum of Zagreb, the Museum of Zagreb, the Museum of Zagreb, Zagreb, the Museum of Zagreb, the Museum of Zagreb, the Museum of Zagreb, the Museum of Zagreb, the Museum of Zagreb, Zagreb, the Museum of Zagreb, the Museum of Zagreb, the Museum of Zagreb, the Museum of Zagreb, the Museum of Zagreb, Zagreb, the Museum of Zagreb, the Museum of Zagreb, the Museum of Zagreb, the Museum of Zagreb, the Museum of Zagreb. A rabbit in the river. Irregularities were found in the planning segment, accounting business, income, expenditure, property management, public procurement. Actually, I don't know where they weren't found. Let me draw attention to some of these negatives again. Business books are conducted on the basis of incomplete accounting documents from which the content and time of changes occurred. The large traffic of cash is managed through the cash register, and the cashier's business is not properly managed. Payments and payments are not recorded in the cash registers chronologically making it difficult to control the cashier's business. The accounts are managed in such a way as to make it difficult to monitor and compare income and expenditure or to make it difficult to control the use of funds in accordance with the financial plan. Irregularities in accounting business have affected the truthfulness of financial reports. Weaknesses in the functioning of internal control have been identified because it either does not exist or existing procedures are not respected. In the case of individual institutions, copyright contracts and performance contracts have been effected in the same amount of cash as employee expenditure. Compensation for copyright contracts has been paid without the necessary documentation, from which it would be apparent whether that service was indeed delivered. For the same jobs, some institutions make work contracts, other copyright contracts, and we are familiar with these last ones, we do not need to calculate contributions. In addition to the occasional work contracts, regular work has been concluded over a long period of time, and this raises the question of the use of employee working time and the justification of doing regular work through a work contract. For the most part, dedicated own walkways are used for the payment of the stimulating part of the salary as well as for salaries calculated according to the coefficients higher than those prescribed by the collective agreement and even in the case of shortfalls and outstanding obligations of those institutions. The stimulative part of the salary shall be paid without established criteria. Business space shall be leased without a public tender and without the consent of the founders in whose ownership these premises are. The tenants shall use the premises and after the end of the lease agreement, no collection measures shall be taken in due time and late payments shall not be sanctioned by the accounting of interest. Finally, but not less importantly, without the application of the prescribed procurement procedures in 2013, goods and services of more than 13 million kunas etc. were made. It's actually too much to care about in this brief exposure, but it all raises some questions. The report of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of May 2015 states "It is likely that by the end of this year, so it is thought of 2015, a legislative framework will be prepared to ensure more effective control, as well as better information to the public on the transparent spending of budgets. My question is, did this legal framework come with it? And the second question, how could such a 2013 report not have been considered alarming enough to immediately come to the assembly benches and take concrete measures as soon as possible? I would like to remind you that the report from the Committee of Parliament dates back to May 2015 and that the revision refers to 2013. The review of the financial operations of the cultural institution for 2014 did not appear on the parliamentary benches despite the fact that the law clearly states that among the basic criteria setting out the need for an audit under a)analysis of the results of the previous audit, b)the assessment of the risk of maladministration occurs. Obviously, the fact that there are almost no segments of the financial operations of large-scale institutions in a culture in which no significant irregularities have been recorded was not sufficient to give rise to the strong reason for these institutions to be found in the 2014 audit, nor to the fact that the 2013 report clearly shows that the institutions in culture largely did not respect the recommendations of the auditors in the report that preceded this 2013 audit report. And what do you conclude from that? Years went by, nothing seemed to happen, things were letting go their own way, I blame myself. For what? It seems that there will be a lot of work in the cultural portfolio to sanction and ultimately prevent such financial operations. The sanctioning of individuals or groups because I stress I believe that this is about individuals or groups of people, so we owe the sanctioning of individuals or groups to taxpayers because it is their money, our money but we owe it to those people in culture who have been doing their financial business consciously, and in order for those who knowingly conduct their financial business to be particularly prominent in this assembly in a positive sense I will read the names of these institutions with special satisfaction because the guilt cannot be collective. So the unconditional opinion is expressed for the Ansambl of folk dances and songs of Croatia Lado, Dubrovnik libraries, Dubrovnik museums, the City Museum of Bjelovar, the City Museum of Karlovac, the City Museum of Požega, the City Museum of Sisak, the City Museum of Varazdin, the City Museum of Virovitica, the City Theatre of Požega, the City Theatre Zorin Dom Karlovac, the City Library Franjo Marković Križevci, the City Library Juraj Šišgorić Šibenik, the City Library of Virovnica, the City Library of Slavonski Brod, the City Library of Zadar, the City Library of Požega, the City Library and the public library Pula, the City Library of Pula, the City Library of Pula, the City Library of Dubrovnik and the City Library of Slavonski Brod, the City Library of Zadar, the City Library of Zadar in Zadar, the City of Zadar, the City of Zadar, the City of Zadar, the City Theatre of Zadar, the City of Zadar, the City of Pula, the City of Pula, the City of Pula, the City of Pula, the City of Pula, the City of Pula, the City of Pula, the City of Pula, the City of Pula, the City of Pula, the City of Pula, the town of Zagreb, the town of Zagreb, the town of Zagreb, the town of Zagreb, the town of Zagreb, the town of the town of Zagreb, the town of the town of Zagreb, the town of the town of the town of Zagreb, the town of the town of Zagreb, the town of Zagreb, the town of Zagreb, the town of the town of Zagreb, the town of Zagreb, the town of Zagreb, the town of the town of the town of the town of the town of the town of the town of the town of the town of the town of the town of the town of the town of the town of the town of the town of the town of the town of the town of the town of the town of the town of the town of the town of the town of the town of the town of the town of the town of the town of the town of the town of the town of the town of the town of the town of the town of the town of the town of the town of the town of the town of the town of the town of the town of the town of the town of On behalf of these people who have done their financial business knowingly and according to the legal frameworks, I ask for steps and measures to be taken to force those others first mentioned to behave the same. It's finally time to separate the grain from the weeds. We're going to need a lot of strength and energy and will, I hope we have it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2460	Thank you very much. Next on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the word will be taken by the distinguished representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2461	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Here let me first on behalf of the club to thank her, and I congratulate the State Audit Office on the wide-ranging work. And at first, I would immediately, given that I noticed that in this business, the revision of cultural institutions in culture has worked several different offices from the territory of the Republic of Croatia, it is only the most well-intentioned for the future, to see as much compliance as possible with the criteria in assessing the assessments between certain regional offices and to continue to do so. The previous speakers said, we agree with them, it's not about small money, it's about over eight hundred... millions of income and 890 million kuna expenditure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When you sum up these rare are such activities in the Republic of Croatia that have such a craftsman's means if we can call it that. Cultural institutions at national level, I would start with them, they practically have a tradition of more than 150 years, they began to happen in the second half of the second half of the 19th century, and then they were bearers and also of national rebirth and national consciousness. And in some ways, they were hunting the connection for that time that was in Europe. So to us, the main conclusion of this audit report, we agree that responsibility should be determined, we agree that those who have done well should be highlighted, but in fact the main conclusion of this audit finding is that the transition in the institutions of culture has not been implemented and that this is actually a sector where significant reforms are needed. All the cities in Western Europe, such as Glasgow or Bilbao, planned their economic recovery and development at cultural institutions. Bilbao, the city of St. Spain, Buckskii, was completely devastated in the mid-1990s. The opening of a cultural institution, one, of the Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao, completely reorganised the economic appearance of the city, only the cultural institution attracted more than 2.5 million visitors a year, only one cultural institution. From this revision, we conclude that untapped potential is hidden in these institutions, both in means and in possibilities. The problem is a few levels. When you look at who has a conditional opinion from these cultural institutions, then you will see that the moss is about the largest institutions. In institutions that have the highest professional services, whether financial or legal, which is a message of course not only to cultural institutions but to the founders of cultural institutions that appoint administrative councils. The administrative boards shall determine the work plans of each director, accept annual plans, accept work plans for the next period, accept the employment programme as well. Most founders do not have strategic cultural development documents, which should also be adapted and handled by planning work in cultural institutions. And there's the core of the problem. Today, when the European Commission and the European Union are going in terms of a programme called Creative Europe, it is one of the items of the European Commission's budget period 2014-2020 which is increasing, one of the few that is increasing because Europe knows exactly what potential is, if you want both economic development and employment in cultural institutions. In the vast majority of our cultural institutions there are no financial plans, the state audit has also made it clear that the problem facing cultural institutions here is because they do not have financial plans from their founders or from that part of the state budget that they expect funding from. They have a problem with the inventory. I must tell you that I can now tell you at least 10 cultural institutions who are trying to arrange their property from land books where property is still being managed as social or SR Croatian property etc., etc. Therefore, the problem that arises in cultural institutions is not only their problem but the general problem of the arrangements of our state administration. What's the problem and what my colleagues have pointed out in front of me is a public procurement problem. It is inadmissible that the director of the cultural institution he receives, we said the modest means for culture are so easily treated and that you do not have a regulated system of public procurement. It is unacceptable for us to have unwritten rules to assign, for example, free tickets to certain cultural institutions. And it's inadmissible that in fact, the cultural institutions 80 percent of their resources are getting us out of the state budget. In this variant almost anyone can be the director of the museum, the library of the theatre. Because if you have guaranteed 80% of your income from the state budget, then you can see your ability and your way of leading a particular cultural institution. The biggest financial cake is in theaters right now. And if you look at the audit results, you'll see that the theaters right now, that the theaters are having the biggest problems with the state's audit. After them, museums follow and then libraries follow. The knowledge of cultural governance definitely shows that we are missing this revision and we can already say that for decades, not only because certain errors in the management of cultural institutions are repeated from the 2004 audit findings, from the 2010 audit findings but also from the 2014 audit findings. I think we all need to conclude together, that if someone is a good archaeologist that doesn't mean they're going to be automatically a good director of an archaeological museum and that we should think in a certain way when it comes to directors of institutions, that some other professions that may not be basically related to the scientific principle of certain museums or libraries are introduced. The issue of the responsibility of the boards of directors is no less than the responsibility of the people who run the cultural institutions, and of course there is responsibility and founders. If the administrative council appointed by the founders doesn't ask a question once in four years, it doesn't trouble certain things, then we can hardly expect anything to change. I mentioned a completely different approach in certain EU countries to lead cultural institutions. Today, there is no longer any developed Western European city that has not specially formed the Office for Culture, but an agency. And the agency's job is to unite several different sectors, not only of the cultural sector, but of sectors and tourism, education, spatial planning, and in some ways it is understood that the old centres of certain cities are possible for further development. I've already mentioned examples of Glasgow and Bilbao cities. I don't know which founder in the principal's competition is looking for a four-year work plan and whether it's being sought. It was recently introduced at the state level. You have a situation where the director has to offer you in four years to see the development of his cultural institution, with which financial resources, with which human resources. It is very difficult for the applicant himself to be the director unless there is a strategic document that I have pointed to. It is a very bad situation with our cultural institutions regarding the application of European Union funds. We do not have an institution that is, in the right sense, networked with similar institutions and in certain EU programmes and thus sees its further professional and financial development. I wouldn't particularly point out those who got a positive grade. By studying in detail the comments of those who received a conditional assessment, I will mention only one problem that appeared at the museum which was in the inventory of the value of the museum building. It would be very well-intentioned to warn that we must have certain flexibility in this topic because cultural heritage and according to the Constitution suffers special, it has special protection of the Republic of Croatia and, in accordance with a series of international conventions, some times is not easy and it is not possible to assess material value until the end, for the simple reason that, for example, some national valuable arts do not suffer an economic assessment of value and this is not in line with several conventions. And also for some findings, it's impossible to estimate the value, because we simply don't have a legal market for it, it doesn't exist. There is no legal market for archaeological heritage, because archaeological findings by nature are property of the Republic of Croatia as soon as they are found in the sea, either underground. So that's where we need to look for a certain balance. Finally, I would say that cultural institutions should in themselves be open, accessible to citizens and available to the public, transparent ones would say popularly. Their work should also be subject to both professionally and financially subject to discussion and criticism from the public. Never should what is done in cultural institutions be secret. This belongs in the sphere of some other institutions and services, not in the sphere of the work of cultural institutions. So it's very interesting, then, that an institution that is the only one in line with this audit find has a negative view, that there are documents where the founder who appoints the Administrative Council in this case is a significant, large cultural city of Rijeka, someone who has received a negative opinion and who wants to be replaced by a certain agreement where he is guaranteed the amount of income and then declares this agreement a secret. They probably saw it from the esteemed director, Mr. HRT's director, Mr. Radman, who has also declared many internal documents a secret on public television. Now I'm asking you respected colleagues and colleagues if we're going to have a few years from now when we're going to have a comprehensive audit report like we talked about after the 2004, 2010, 2014, when we have founders of cultural institutions that give these cultural institutions millions of dollars again, when serious violations are made and serious inconsistencies that even the State Review estimates by a negative assessment then the city of Rijeka I will dare say here for purely political reasons so that it can place a new director and that there's no problem with an old director going on what's called a secret agreement guaranteeing economic benefits. I think that we must deeply imagine when we talk about that in public political space we all need to bring down tensions, then we colleagues and colleagues, based on this agreement between the city of Rijeka and the Croatian National Theatre of Rijeka, have to say that he is in some places, that political discourse, deep into culture, and that neither this warning review will be enough to fix the situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2462	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused several replicas. She is the first to be the respected representative of Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2463	Thank you very much. You have indicated that cultural institutions have identified irregularities in public procurement procedures. Just allow the supplement, many other irregularities have been identified, that the financial plans are not realistic, that the principle of occurrence does not apply which directly affects the statement of financial results, that irregularities in the payment of copyright fees and the stimulating part of the salary have been identified. Here is just one example of the 33 audited institutions in culture in 16 of them, meaning half of them almost did not observe orders and remove irregularities identified in previous periods. And all 33 of the 33 audited cultural institutions have identified accounting irregularities, in each institution. However, the State Audit also identified the very irregularities in the Ministry of Culture in previous reports that the minister and deputy minister of that time used the credit cards illegally, that they were raising cash from credit cards that were only returned to the state budget on the orders of the State audit. This was happening from 2012 to half 2014. Since the topic is not closed, and the deputy minister of the time attacked journalists and MPs when he appointed the minister that it was a monstrous lie, then it is time to finally establish it. If this is not true what it said in the State Audit report, I suggest that the Chief State Auditor take his word right now and deny it. It's time for that topic to be closed. If this is not true in the findings of the State Audit, then it is necessary to initiate the procedure for the replacement of the Chief State Auditor. But if these facts are correct, then it's time for the competent state institutions to stop sleeping for months over those established facts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2464	Thank you. The honourable representative Jasen Mesic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2465	Dear colleague, I thank you for your supplement, you have just pointed out those problems as a kind of analyst and a kind of economist. Not only did you call it high time to resolve the issue of official cards, but it is an extremely bad message to all others who should be seen by the Ministry and thus run cultural institutions. So that's what made a big problem and a big damage to reputation I'd say to the entire cultural sector. I agree with you that the big problem is this repeated recurrence of errors, as indicated by previous audits. But that's what a respected colleague says about sleeping with the founders. Because if the founder, one city, one county if you want and the state doesn't act after one director in 2 or 3 years doesn't show the results... The 2010 audit report will agree that through the Governing Council, the founder has mechanisms to call him spotfully to account. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why isn't that done? Now that's a big question, and that's where I pointed out the lack of strategic cultural policies. Why did I warn you about this, why did I especially highlight the procurement procedure? Because those responsible in cultural institutions really have great autonomy and clearly write to them the rules on how they should stick to it and cannot be abolized in any way. As regards financial planning, there is sometimes a problem that needs to be coordinated, given that practically 80% of the funds are received from either the local budget or the state budget. You know that there is a budget waiting in the Croatian Parliament to be completed by the budget of the ministries, then they only send their programming funds to cultural institutions. So cultural institutions sometimes cough here and objectively. But there's no excuse in public procurement.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2466	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2467	Thank you, Mr. President. In your presentation, you stressed that they have been repeating themselves for years of this irregularity or conditional or negative assessment in cultural institutions related to the spending of public funds from the budget. However, what is happening seems to me that we have simply misunderstood the role of the State Audit where it is stressed that it is an independent institution and is then independent in the allocation of funds under the budget because there are no State audits that provide both the criteria and the methodology under which it has allocated these funds. But it seems that this national level then has no impact on the financing of cultural institutions. And on the other hand, I think there should be this synthesis, this synergy in order to define cultural policy, the cultural development strategy, because it has to be compatible. The findings and spending of funds cannot go on one basis and institutions should operate on another and common criteria should be precisely in the compatibility of these criteria and methodology of cultural financing or cultural development objectives.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2468	They will respond to the replica, distinguished representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2469	Your Honor, Professor, you said a strategic matter, actually. The national cultural development strategy is not easy to develop, it is comprehensive and diverse. In our term of office until 2011, we tried to follow up on cultural, sectoral policies. A strategy for the development of archives, museum strategy, development strategy and preservation of cultural heritage and thus, through sectoral cultural policies, come up with such a concrete document as you mentioned. That's exactly the solution. Because when you get such a document then you can go on multi-annual financial planning, then there are clear programmes and then a clear revision can see if the funds have been spent in accordance with the Realisation Act in the realisation of these policies. I believe you meant something like that. The problem is that in 4 years from the Ministry of Culture, we didn't go out with any strategic documents, and those documents that were brought in by 2011 that I mentioned were sleeping in drawers. Not only that, but we are all calling out here that we need to turn more towards the European funds and the first thing they're looking for is whether you have a strategic document. So one of the benefits of the strategy for the development of archives in the Republic of Croatia is the possibility of the state applying for funds for the state archive in Kerstinco. One option of an economic conservation and economic use of cultural heritage is that you can attract funds that you will invest in cultural heritage and thus save it while at the same time having an investment in the Republic of Croatia. ... That's right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I agree that the State Audit would do the same, which is why I tried to make my speech come up with a way to make it the main message and result of this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2470	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Glasnovic. He's gone. He's lost his right to the replica. The next is Honorable Representative Blaženko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2471	Thank you, Your Honor. Your Honor, I must say that you said in your statement that you did not particularly point out those who received an unconditional opinion. I think they should be highlighted as an example to others. If you have carefully analysed, and I see that from your statement that it is, the fact is that in this report in the category of unconditional opinion there are mostly institutions, public institutions from the local level, and unfortunately in that second category of conditional opinion, most of them are institutions from the national level. And on the ground, the situation is different. On the ground, it is these institutions from the national level that are appointed as certain tutors to institutions at local level. And then there's the pressure on local communities to finance the activities of public institutions at national level if you're going to implement a certain process, I mean archeological research. Your Honor, forgive me for not a little personality, but unfortunately it is past the time when you, as minister, have had a great understanding of such a segment of work at local level. I sincerely hope that these times for the benefit of local and institution, public institutions in the area of local communities will return again, but above all, I am thinking of implemented projects within local communities that are in some way relying on the work of public institutions at national level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2472	Thank you. The honourable representative Jasen Mesic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2473	Your Honor, I thank you for your rep. You know, I have to say that I agree with what you have pointed out that it has just shown in the findings of this audit that those institutions that have the largest number of employees and the largest budgets and are actually acting at national level to be seen in this audit report would say the biggest and most important problems and you have a full right to do so. However, I must say that there are a lot of problems in local communities, and where luck is that at all local levels, attention is paid to culture as it is dedicated to the City of Solin, which you certainly know well. In that variant, when you have such a good culture activity in the local community, it is very simple to have a cultural policy. Because of this, if you have a local community that is so interested in its culture, in its heritage, for preservation, and you would say the development of that cultural heritage, its rise to a higher level by adapting to modern trends of tourism and everything else that comes, which is everyday, then it is really the one in the ministry who has no hearing about it either completely deaf or completely anti-talented to cultural politics. I deeply believe that we are on a good path and with this government of ours, the Republic of Croatia, which is going in that direction. And I believe that these projects will find space and understanding that they are realized because they are truly valuable, because they have long-term benefits not only for the culture of the individual region, but also for the culture of the Republic of Croatia, but also for the preservation of everyday life but also for the economic development of the local community.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2474	Thank you very much. And the last replica is Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic's distinguished MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2475	Thank you, dear President, colleagues and colleagues. As far as I know, not one cultural director has been removed because of poor governance. I agree with my colleague Mesic that there is a lack of strategy, but I think there are also strategies in the drawers that are waiting, which need to be refreshed and which there is no one to actually implement and implement. You mentioned four-year work plans. I know that certain institutions are very much required in the appointment of these four-year plans for management. But what you need is a 4-year plan if you appoint the administration politically. Then someone who came to the competition and handed over an excellent 4-year plan can't go away because they know who's calling the administration and institutions in culture because it's a political decision. You mentioned the agency and the need if I understood the establishment of the agency well, and I would disagree because if you have the Ministry of Culture that's already organized enough, and now another thing that doesn't do everything that should be done and that's hyperburdened and that in the drawers there are various strategies, which doesn't do enough supervisory work, which sends two or three members to the board of directors, and that stops the whole story with the rest of the ministry, that's already another problem. So what's the agency gonna do if we have a resolution ministry? Some institutions in culture also have two resolution ministries, one to pay wages, say the Ministry of Science and Education and Sports, and the other to do other things, the Ministry of Culture, you know that well. What's the problem here is that when the administration is appointed, or the director of the institution in culture, you have a 4-year cycle that he does. He inherits problems that are from the former administration, from the former directorate, and he deals with these problems in various ways. Since 2005, there have been other problems, some have been dragged from now on, so that's the whole package he gets and he has to deal with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2476	Thank you. The honourable representative Jasen Mesic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2477	I agree with my dear colleague. I said we have a management crisis that lasts for decades, what you said was that problems are inherited. When I was talking about the agency, I just pointed out an example of where, how to access it in Western Europe. So a completely different concept approach. Because some cities have completely abolished, given that most of these cultural institutions are just cities and local communities and that's why I pointed it out. I also pointed out that we are coming to the Croatian capital of European culture 2020. It is such a chance for culture in Croatia and Croatian culture to say it metaphorically explodes on an international stage. It is both marketing and promotional and every other chance and economic to present it adequately in some ways. I mentioned examples of cities that used it to completely change the economic picture of their city's life. No, I do not highlight the economy as the main motive, however, as an additional possibility, because we all know that every cultural programme is looking for a particular economic subport. We'll all agree on that. So that's clear. The agencies were therefore established in these individual cases, and I cite this as an example of the possibilities because they were much more adequate in attracting the European Union funds and investing in cultural infrastructure and investing in cultural programmes. And I'd like to make sure I'm not misunderstood here. So it's about a whole other thing, and that's why I pointed out those examples.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2478	Thank you very much. We will now move to the presentation of the next club of MPs and this will be the club of representatives of HSS and HDS respected representative Goran Dodig. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2479	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, his associates, respected rapporteurs, colleagues and colleagues. Obviously, we have an MP who hears poorly, so they think they have to yell when it's necessary to speak quietly. So, I'm speaking here on behalf of the HSS and HDS Representatives Club. I'll start with a brief, with my assessment of this report. So you've explained a lot of things to me as a non-professional in your area, and if you'd assessed your work from some of the other general features of a city, I'd say it's correct, it's quality and I understood it, so as a layman, that I understood what you wanted to say. And the work that has 42 pages, 4 tables, 2 charts and attachments 6 that are very transparent, from which you can actually read all of what you wanted to do is well done. And I can advance this report on behalf of the club, we'll support it. However, I will return a little bit to what seems to me a measure of things, which I would like to talk about, so your objectives of the review have been to determine the truthfulness and credibility of the financial report, analyse the achievement of income and income, and expenditure, expenditure in accordance with the plan, check the compliance of business with laws and other regulations, check the assessment of the efficiency of the use of funds and check other business-related activities of the institution. I don't know what other activities are, but in any case, I think that by putting into context this report and all the reports so far in the context of what the Croatian Parliament is doing, there is a fundamental question and that is what we can do. Why is it so, and we can now seek the responsibility of all those who, who did not act in accordance with the law? Finally, I don't think it's the work of the Croatian Parliament, we can accept it or not. I don't know what's going on behind this, but it's obvious that what I understand, with the fact that this is for 2013 what my colleague said, pointed out colleague Rusak is a pointless story today. But it clearly speaks of that we did not really dimension the key problem in the right way, which is for us politics, institutions in public cultures, which is the policy of the Croatian government or Croatian as you want the Parliament, what is the legislative framework, and how this policy and the activity of these institutions are dimensioned in relation to the time and space in which we are located without the clear strategy that MP Mesic was talking about, we can't really talk about. Any entry into the autonomy of these institutions, so-called The expertise of the people who run these facilities puts us in a position to be attacked as a non-democratic environment. But I want to say without any hesitation that a country that is in serious not only financial, but also any other problem must take care of what it will and who it will finance. I'll only mention that, for example, in Amsterdam, you have a marijuana museum. I am not sure that one day it will not happen that someone will say this by example of good habits and good practice of the EU will not and we will not seek the marijuana museum. I say in advance you'd be very against it. And now I won't talk about it anymore. I will talk about the fact, the responsibility of this House for this state. Neither are these laws and all this has not occurred without a certain way of participating in their legislative frameworks, even with a speech as someone speaks and calls for democracy, parliamentaryism of parliamentary deputies here. That by any chance we have, that by any chance we have today on the agenda of a minister's shift, then I assure you there would be 150 of us here. The moment we have a serious story about how institutions in culture work, it all comes down to the fact that everyone wants to speak on behalf of their own club or to show up at a pay phone because television will record it. And if he sees responsibility in this segment, and in everything else, then I see it primarily in the Parliament as one of the most significant political institutions in this country. We've come to terms with the fact that we have the worst grades in the perception of citizens as an institution that works, that we're invisible and boring and that we actually support everything, a lot of negative things in this society. Divisions in this society are coming from this House. Mostly division, I don't mean everything. And now I'll be back shortly after this question of culture, because it seems to me that there's no point in me saying what's already been said and 15 minutes is not an imperative that I have to use here. You can say that in a few minutes. Let's try to think about how we're going to behave. Talk about the guilt of museum leaders, libraries, so if you want from theatres that I disagree with in many ways, but primarily in their politics, primarily in their strategic view of their product how much their product affects the state of society. Whether they will meet their legal obligations and legal obligations is a question of someone else, but their basic messages coming out of their activities must make this society more quality, more democratic, more acceptable for the time and space in which we live. And in that sense, it seems to me that we have to ask the question of what our responsibility is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2480	The replica was reported by distinguished representative Zeljko Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2481	Dear President, I think about cultural institutions the people, the tax collector of Croatian Skakespeare or bread? How is that money assigned to cultural institutions? Example one. The magazine "Croatian political prisoner" gets 11,000 kuna a year for its record, and there are people who have served up to 15 years in Yugoslav case files. One NGO magazine, a minor, actually not a government, but a minority of one, receives nearly 600 thousand kuna a year. On the question of the distribution of money in this, in the commissions is there anyone in the commissions culturally who assigned more than half a million kunas to their portals. Where's the prosecution? Does anyone have a Ministry of Culture who also assigned hundreds of thousands of kuna to their children? Where's the prosecution? Who pays $11 million a year for two cultural film festivals... and plays on Brijuni that no one is interested in except some people, Sheaxpeare or bread, as is possible, where are investigations and where is this rule of law? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know if it's in the audit or not, but we should take this seriously in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2482	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Goran Dodig.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2483	Well, it's not really a replica, if we're going to talk straight, and I think it's time we talked straight. It's not a replica, but I have the opportunity to complete my colleague Glasnović. Again, we return to the question of how is this responsibility defined in this House? Did we define it? Have we allowed our inactions to happen? We'll find very difficult decisions for those who have worked this way. It is likely to belong to the category or part of the work of persecution institutions. But the question arises how much we have created such a mess and such a state in this country by our inaction. I'm more prone to thinking, and I'm more prone to methodology so that first we can solve the problems properly or at least try. Of course, we can't do it in any act, not in any term of office, but if we continue to act as so-called. the procedure is more important than the content, I do not dispute that the procedure is extremely important without it, there is no democracy if you will, but that we are not only recruiting procedures and forgetting the content. We forgot the contents. We forgot in cultural politics what Mr. Jasen Mesic was talking about, we don't have a strategy, we don't know what we want. Does anyone know what we want in that culture? Is there anyone who can answer that question? There isn't! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2484	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2485	Dear Professor, I liked the part where you called for the responsibility of all of us regarding the long-term planning of something we can call cultural policy. One who does not realize that the issue of cultural identity is a strategic issue in the coming decades because we as a Republic have slightly over 4 million people entered into the integration of 500 million people into the EU, where you have globalisation trends, where you have a daily phenomenon that certain dictions and languages disappear, that certain small cultures, "small" under quotes, because they are experiencing a small number of populations, disappear. The issue of preserving cultural identity and cultural policy must be one of the strategic policies in the coming decades. If so, if we know that this depends on politics and resources, then one part of our culture must be directed towards new trends where culture is not only a question of culture and preservation, but also what you professors have highlighted is a cultural product that will be acceptable to our local citizens by consumption, but also by people who come to visit Croatia to our satisfaction. The issue of cultural strategy also opens up a platform for cooperation and development of the same cultural identity in the European environment in which we belonged and we will belong even more and we want to belong. Therefore, I really agree with you that perhaps this basic document should be discussed and brought here to the Croatian Parliament and on it to insist and for longer than one term, as you have said.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2486	Thank you. The next meeting was attended by a distinguished representative of Ines Strenja-Linić, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2487	The Honorable Chairman, respected gentlemen from the State Audit, respected MPs. The report on the financial audit carried out by public institutions in culture is detailed, transparent and clear. It contains a number of information from which the problems of cultural institutions can really be read, and therefore the MOST of Independent Lists will support it because it points to the problems that are present and that are large. Of the 64 public institutions, 32 received a conditional opinion and 1 institution, unfortunately, that is the HNK Ivan pl. A rabbit from my river. So more than half of the facility has no unconditional opinion, which is worrying. As a result, more than half of cultural institutions could not determine the truthfulness and credibility of financial reports, business is not fully in line with laws and other regulations and the efficiency of the use of funds is very questionable. More than half of cultural institutions have identified irregularities in the field of planning, accounting, income, expenditure, property and public procurement. With some almost all of these elements. In 7 areas where irregularities have been identified, all institutions which have no unconditional opinion have committed irregularities in accounting operations. About half of institutions that do not have an unconditional opinion have been established irregularities in planning, public procurement and expenditure and obligations. Therefore, all of this clearly points to the problem of the leaders of these institutions as well as the founders of the Republic of Croatia, the local self-government unit and the questionable function of the supervisory authorities of the administrative and theatre councils, which clearly play more the role of the ficus and the exercise of the will of the founder rather than their supervision. Furthermore, what concerns is the fact that nearly half of institutions that have no unconditional opinion have outstanding orders from previous years, and some previous audits took place years earlier. Therefore, the very fact that someone does not care about the execution of a warrant, that supervisory authorities are also not concerned about it and, consequently, the founders do not care about some of the systems because of themselves, not caring about public money and business, and only the formal fulfilment of certain legal obligations. Irregularities in planning are doubles, on the one hand they depend on the business of the Ministry of Culture, i.e. local self-government and concern the process of bringing public needs into culture. As no decision on the level of co-financing of the programme is known at the time of planning for the next period, it is not possible to carry out accurate planning. This points to the necessary change and redefine of decision-making in the process of making public needs in the culture of the Republic of Croatia as well as at all lower levels. On the other hand, it concerns non-planning according to the programming classification. Many institutions avoided such reports or even did not have financial reports according to certain programmes according to performances, exhibitions, some projects. Where some irregularities are added, which indicate that certain expenditure on copyright contracts and contracts for work have been achieved in almost equal amounts, as well as expenditure on employees, that the same contracts are concluded with external contractors but also with employees in some even continuously for several months, which has the character of more permanent work, then the reasons for incorrect planning should also be sought in subjective reasons. Then "a large part of their own income" was actually used to pay off the stimulating part of the salary or to pay higher than the collective contract established even in the event of a lack of income. Such non-planning with disorderly conduct of operations with similar business events in different accounts of the accounting plan not only makes it difficult to monitor and control the use of funds but also to hide individual items for individual persons. So in some cases, the fee amounts to hundreds of thousands of kunas, which has been shown by the revision of the HNK Ivan Noble Zajc which has been given a negative opinion. Where the obligation of administrative and theatre councils to adopt programme and financial plans of the report is also taken into account, why has the council not insisted on programming and reporting? The supervisory function in such cases is completely missing. The absence of the development of an effective internal control system prevents any early establishment of irregularities. It should be noted once again that this report refers to 2013 and we are discussing 2016. When these institutions achieved 882 million revenues, and most importantly, 80% of these revenues are thus almost 700 million kunas are shown as revenue from the budget, so that's what we gave them, state and local. Looking at the activities of institutions as many as 35% of libraries, 53% of museums and even 65% of all theatres have no unconditional opinion. There are 5 entities in a special group under other institutions. The most devastating situation is in theatres. All Zagreb theatres and all national theatres except for the one in Varazdin have no unconditional opinion. However, if the total amount of income and income is analysed, the one available to institutions that have no unconditional opinion is even more pronounced. 35% of libraries that have no unconditional opinion had 72% of income. So over 194 million kuna. 53% of museums that have no unconditional opinion have as much as 70% of the revenues and receipts of all museums. It means 103 million kuna. And the records are re-theatrics, 65% of those who have no unconditional opinion had 90% of the income, so almost 336 million kuna. This analysis is truly devastating because it shows that half of the institutions that do not have a positive opinion have participated with 80% of the total funds of all institutions. The unconditional opinion was mainly given to those institutions with income and incomes of less than 10 million, e.g. HNK Varazdin, Ansambl Lado, Dubrovnik museums. So irregularities happen in large institutions. HNK in Zagreb about 100 million kuna, HNK in Rijeka and HNK in Split each with about 50 million kuna, the City of Zagreb library with over 100 million kunas participate with over a third of the total incomes and receipts of institutions that were audited. HNK Rijeka has the only unfavourable opinion. Analysis of the available deficit will show that the deficit is precisely in those institutions that generate the highest income and which do not have an unconditional opinion. Of these expenditures, 92% are total expenditures for employees and material costs. Let us therefore ask ourselves how much resources remain for the programme, culture, events and production. What is the system so designed for? The question of responsibility is also raised, was anyone responsible for these results in any way? The report was drawn up in April 2015. As I said refers to 2013 and here we are today in the spring of 2016 discussing. Is there a need for a more efficient audit system? Yeah. I must look back on the example of HNK Rijeka as the only unfavourable opinion. For years, the theatre council and founders of the City of Rijeka, Mayor Obersnel and only the city council were warned about numerous irregularities but without success. And a legal obligation to adopt a programme and financial report by the founders is very necessary. At least once a year, the same thing hasn't happened. Obersnel first claimed that it was the same consumed in the report on the implementation of the budget, but the question is, how can the report on the budget be adopted on the city council and the HNK programme and financial report not? And the theatre council has been deaf for years. Last year it was finally adopted in the city council but a united report for 7 institutions of the city so that we cannot adopt a single report again and not in particular. However, the change of administration when Oliver Frljic comes to the intensitary place according to his former ingenuity, certain steps are taken in the light of an unfavourable opinion. Although the former intensifier claims that Mayor Obersnel knew all about her and that she had no responsibilities, Frljić has been acting selectively at the time, because, for example, former ingenuity resents acts incompatible with the law at the same time appoints a director of drama who also has permanent proceedings against the law. In 2014, too, people with inadequate qualifications are re-employed to their respective jobs. So the theatre council washed their hands off the identity by defending itself that it was manipulated and they knew nothing and so it's too often in our society. The same, either incompetent or unprofessional theatre council, remained until the end of its term of office by the arrival of a new intensifier, Oliver Frjić. Even the city has approved external lawyers to comply with all the rules, although the HNK has an employee lawyer. In conclusion, therefore, we propose that if possible, as already stated by a colleague earlier integration, we should further check how much we in which part of the public institutions in culture can be in one computer and accounting system that would contribute greatly to transparency but certainly standardise both regulations and internal procedures so that the labour rules are the same in all theatres and all museums and that the systematization of jobs is harmonised as the pay level for a particular workplace because we have very large fluctuations that certain theatres pay for salaries and do not have the same number of employees. So, we should propose to the Ministry of Culture, we will propose to the Ministry of Culture to work on standardisation of public institutions in culture. So the ministry or state proposes hardware and then individual institutions only care about software or programmes and institutions. And I also propose to the Assembly Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the hearing of the current HNK intent Ivan the noble Zajc, Mr. Frljić if he recognises this Croatian Parliament in order to see if there is progress in implementing the recommendations of the auditor. Because if there is no more significant expenditure, and he knew about the negative opinion and trend that continues to be considered the new administration of the theatre since the situation in this 2013 audit is alarming especially in the part of the financial business of public procurement and disproportionately large and large number of authorial contracts and that the opinion, as I said, is negative. Therefore, it is necessary to amend the legislation, the Law on Librarys, the Law on Museums, the Law on Theatres and the process of adopting public needs in culture, and how it is necessary to have more frequent audits and then proceed further to the law according to these audits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2488	Thank you. A distinguished representative, Lucian Vukelic, appeared for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2489	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives, dear colleagues. I am extremely pleased that you have raised this issue regarding our theatre in the city of Rijeka which, as I have already spoken in this assembly on several occasions, was a transparent, transparent city, most transparent with negative reports. And the only negative report in culture has the city of Rijeka. As we know to resolve intensifier of the Croatian National Theatre Mrs. Nada Matosevic, she has concluded a secret agreement that we have pointed out, she has concluded a secret agreement with the head of culture Mr. Sharar and the mayor of the city of Rijeka, Mr. Obersnel, who is 75 thousand kunas who are compensated for the pay gap between the intensifier and the head of the conductor. It's as clear as day because we've shown that document in both presses. Of course, there was absolutely no repercussion or answer. I'm extremely sorry, too, that there are no representatives here from the opposition that are from my city who like to talk about the transparency of the same one. This report also mentions the problem with the poor, assignment, in fact, it is an award of 1100 kuna to the private company of props, etc. Where is the face of the same mayor who applied in 2013 for the European city of culture. The river is a European city of culture with all these negative reports, with the situation in the theatre and the way it is run. And the city and the theater. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2490	Thank you. Reply to the Replicated Representative Ines Strenja-Linić. Next to the replica, distinguished representative Miro Bulj appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2491	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Here's a colleague of Ines Strenja-Linić's I would agree, however, I would have to add that I have heard that there are local sheriffs working in local politics. However, if in culture there are sheriffs who do not have any control and should have control over what through the government and what through this body and what we are talking about is the 2013 report. So it turns out that Director Frljić is essentially one of the sheriffs whose former government and this Parliament did not take any steps and has nothing to do with culture, i.e. that it was essentially, that these were the funds of our citizens, it was a culture. The great damage has been done to Croatian culture through these spendings of non-transparent funds. Here is a key issue of all revisions, and I have said this in the previous and especially when it comes to culture, about that wig that is needed for Croatian society to preserve culture. The question of responsibility that you have put in place, however, is raised, if all the state's audit is being forwarded to the DORH, what does the DORH do? The main problem in Croatian society remains the selectivity of the state's attorneyship, which selectively extracts objects from the drawer, and does not do its job in accordance with the need to protect public interest. That is why all of the solutions that the doctor said by Ines Strenja Linic should be implemented urgently through the procedure both in the Parliament and in the Government and prevent this culture of Croatian culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2492	Thank you. The next call came a distinguished representative of Dario Hrebak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2493	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected Mrs Linic. We absolutely agree with your proposal, I'm glad you brought this issue to this high house. Namely, it's really inadmissible that... 2013 in the report as I found for 2014 and will be interesting to see what will be the report by HNK Ivan pl. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a 2015 rabbit. Obviously, there is a continuity of bad business and it is really very embarrassing that one such respected and highly respected institution and cultural institution such as HNK Ivan pl. The rabbit alone does not satisfy, therefore, the conditions, i.e. the opinion positive or at least conditional opinion of the State Audit, but rather it is extremely unfavourable. As pointed out by the audit, irregularities have been identified in the field of planning accounting operations of income, expenditure, assets and public procurement. So, a very large circle of what the HNK River does not satisfy. I must also point out that there is a fine line between art and commenting on day-to-day political events. We were aware during 2014 especially in 2015 of how it was conducted and how it was applied in the Croatian public space, so Director of Rijeka, HNK Rijeka Mr. Frljić. We think, my colleague Mesic has already highlighted the main, serious problems that the Croatian National Theatre of Rijeka has and therefore it is really necessary for the city of Rijeka to call him to account for better management of the HNK Rijeka and that the leadership in our opinion is more concerned with the problems within the house, because it really does not fit one respected house like HNK Ivan pl. That's how the rabbit works. We believe it violates the reputation as an extremely important institution in culture, so Mrs. Strenja Linic we support on behalf of the club HSLS block pensioners together this proposal and expect this situation to be resolved in the Croatian National Theatre of Rijeka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2494	Thank you. The next call came a distinguished representative of Gordana Rusak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2495	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here is the presentation of colleague Strenja Linic, which has shown the alarmingness of the situation which is currently in the area of financial operations of a cultural institution. And while we're here in Parliament discussing I've really heard a lot of things I might agree with. I'd just like to point out that at the moment I'm saying this, while we're discussing the tap is open, the water is leaking. We don't have time. That tap must be closed as soon as possible, the legislation that allows it must be sent as soon as possible. That's what my colleague Strenja Linic said, and as far as the Committee on Education, Science and Culture is concerned, he will do his job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2496	Thank you. The next call came the distinguished representative Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2497	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues. I answer for the reason that when I look at what year it's 2013, it's 2016. So I'm asking everyone and around us what's going on with us. I, as a businessman, see some things simply don't make it clear to me that in this house, in the House some things are solved and everything goes without a problem. I'd just ask what would have happened if one businessman hadn't given the final bill at the end of the year and what was to be given. She was attacked by all the inspections, the institutions of the state, and that would be the rule of law until the end. I agree. Now I'm asking you a question because I'm in the Assembly for the first time and I'm looking at these reports, and I see that out of some 32 conditions, it means half-unconditional, so I wonder what's going to happen with the director of the theater, the library, what kind of process they're going to experience. Whether they will be responsible for what they did, or just as Gordana said, water will flow, politics will work in local communities, let them work further because they are similar to any stranger. I consider and feel so insecure in this country. What's the DORH doing? I don't know, but I think we can do a lot. We have to influence that. I know that culture is very important for Croatia, very important. Yeah, but don't make mistakes like that. I thank my colleagues from the review and I see you're doing your job seriously, and I'm glad to hear that someone's only working hard, because nothing further is happening. I only appeal to go into that part of the clearing and make it as serious as anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2498	Thank you. The following has appeared in an individual debate, the esteemed representative of Ladislav Ilcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2499	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. We have heard numerous criticisms about the work of institutions in culture. Before I give my critical review, I still have to consider that I have 20 professional professions in culture to give some light circumstances. First, I want to put this whole business in one context. The first fact I'm going to say is that giving for culture in 2013 was 0.52% of the budget. In 2014, a year later, it fell to a record 0.49% of the budget. On average European countries, it is 2.2% for culture. Mrs Zlatar Violić often called for 2008 when there was 0.92% of the budget for the culture. So it's a total of very little separation and we need to keep that in mind. In the end, it also speaks of the relationship of the former government to culture and their overall success if they can use that word in economic and financial business because they obviously found a culture where they would first abolish, it's like a culture where money can always be taken. The second easing circumstance of international standards suggests that the ratio of detachment for cold drive and for the programme should be at least 70 per to 30, so 70 per cent maximum for cold drive and 30% for the program. And we have 91.6% cold drive in Croatia. It means that in fact, for those who need to create a program, there is very little money left and that they are very hard to swim to implement such a program. So these are two easy circumstances that talk about the context in which our culturers work. You still have to keep that in mind. Now, let's see how our culturers actually did business. Some data has already been reported, so in 2013, financial indicators say expenditure is regularly higher than income. This is taken as some kind of Croatian standard so that everyone can spend more than they get and then they create debts and are left to the following directors or individuals etc. 31 institutions received unconditional, 32 conditional, 1 institution negative opinion, that's what we've already heard. It has not been said so far that 16 institutions out of those who have not received a positive opinion repeats the year-to-year mistakes. Besides public procurement, I'm going to say something about planning problems. So, when planning, I have to say that mostly access is formal. So let's go write some program just enough to say that we've made some kind of program, and there's actually no strategic planning. I'll say that one easy circumstance. You must know that applications for the Ministry of Culture are written about mid-year, and solutions from the ministry are obtained at the beginning of the current year. So, let's say at the 3rd month, you get an approved project for I don't know in 2016, you get money in the 5th month, and we should somehow plan a business. So how? How does that work? If you want to get I don't know a good conductor or a good director or a good soloist they all have planned for you out there at least one season in advance, and most of the time it's planned for the season 2018-2019. And you can't get a soloist or conductor who's going to raise your culture to some level if you approve the money so late. So it's the same easy circumstance that you have to consider. As far as the financial system is concerned, what does the audit say? The documents that are registered are not authentic, the registers are kept messy, almost everyone breaks the rules and laws of the Republic of Croatia, control is almost non-existent, no written procedures and if there are no procedures. Dear Representative Mesic has already said about these free tickets where we have neither criteria nor how many are given. Commercial premises are leased without competition and approval of founders. The rent payment is often weak. Many contracts have expired, and the tenants have illegally stayed in space. It's just some of the things I pulled out of the report. And now that you have little separations for culture, when you have some swimming on the other hand, let's say culturers who are trying in these circumstances to create such a program and when you have another fact that isn't said, so in culture there are no exact criteria. So it's not science. So you have an audition, somewhere you don't have. How are you going to determine which actor is better, which director is not, etc. And now rather than because of the lack of exact criteria, instead of having more control over it, we let it go. You have a situation where stimulations are charged even in institutions that operate negatively are shared without criteria. You have situations that at some theater an actor who plays a total of 2 plays a year without knowing at the same time how much money he spends on the copyright fees on the side because the system is hand-hands of the menu. This is also greatly suited to the Law on Cultural Councils adopted by the SDP. You must know by the old Law on Cultural Councils that members of the Cultural Council could not apply to the competition for their projects. The SDP changed that, now I can. And then it happens that I'm going to approve her project, she's going to approve of me and then simply there's just kind of a legal conflict of interest. A number of anomalies are visible from this report, however some are not. Let's just say we don't know the number of visitors to a particular cultural event. We don't even know the number of participants, how much money was spent on it. You can't tell from this report. And we're missing that basic analyst. So we have to have basic analysis. I agree with all the proposals that have been made but we have to have first basic analysis to see how much we stand out today in heritage and tradition, how much we stand out in contemporary art, how much participatory we have. Look out, people, citizens who pay in the budget, who pay for that culture, we should know how much they're involved. How many amateur shows do we have, how many visitors at certain shows? We don't have anything. So we'd start planning strategically at all we have to do a basic analysis that we don't have. And finally a few words about the program. In general, culture could be said to have two goals. The first is that this culture should elevate people to something sublime, to something universally good. It should make society more human, human. The second goal that is also legal is that culture should question social processes and criticise social processes. In this second goal, however, which has become practically dominant is so much exaggerated that in fact culture is beginning to serve and sometimes I really get the impression that culture serves in Croatia only insult and demeaning the common human national interests. The highlight of this is that the distinguished representative Strenja-Linić mentioned with Mr. Frljić, who puts flags on half the spear on Statehood Day, on Homeland Thanksgiving. So what kind of art is that? I mean, let's be realistic. It's more of a Puberty twist. It's got nothing to do with art. And at the end of the line it's a violation of the law, it's an insult to Croatian symbols. And that's what we finance, and we're responsible for what Mrs. Rusak said about every kuna heading there, and we need to be critical of that. When that culture sets itself up, it closes itself. We get associations, parents who don't want to send children to these shows that lead them to school because there, I guess, culture thinks it's art, that we're going to bring down social norms if in the whole show, I don't know swear or I don't know what. I guess that's art now. You understand? People put themselves in your role, go to the show once, twice in the play you see something empty, something lame, the third time you'll think about whether it's going to go or not. So this number of visitors says the same thing, that participation of citizens in culture is a key piece of information. We have, for example, theaters from the budget leaving about 80% and the revenue from the tickets is alarmingly low, less than 7%. So theaters of all public institutions in culture have the lowest income from ticket sales, which is absurd. I clearly say that institutions in culture must have their autonomy, but still some valuable frameworks set by their founder. And when we see all these anomalies in culture, then it seems clear to me why Minister Hasanbegovic is suffering such attacks. And I'll say it's a real attack, the reason he's being attacked. This is precisely because it is evident that man understands all these mistakes and because he wants to change it. And that's why I'm giving him full support, and I think now is the time to start, it's time for dialogue, to start talking, to do analysis, and to make a strategic plan for the development of our culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2500	Thank you. The following has appeared for an individual debate by the distinguished representative Sanja Putica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2501	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, I would like to say that this review report in public institutions in culture warned us that there is a general disturbance in cultural institutions. The report presents it to us in concrete numbers, which in general assessments some of which can quote from this report. It is said that the financial plans of individual institutions are not realistic because the financial plans did not comply with the financial plans of the budgets or with the agreed funds for regular and programming activities. Furthermore, certain institutions have not adopted a work programme, i.e. the work programme is not given to competent authorities for adoption as a legal obligation. It has been found that the transport of cash through a cash register in some institutions is significant, and the cashier's business is not properly managed. Money from membership fees, delays and tickets is slow in the cash register for more days than payment. The procedures on the time-limits for depositing cash into a jury account, the way in which the income is recorded and on the cash maximum are not adopted, payments and payments are not recorded in the cash register report chronologically as they have arisen which makes it difficult to control the cash business. The report also says that certain institutions have leased business premises mostly for the provision of catering services without a public tender and without the consent of the founders whose premises are owned. In addition to renting an institution without established criteria, they shall give part of their space for use free of charge, and the costs of use shall be included in their operating expenses. These irregularities affected the level of income and expenditure incurred by the institution. The report also shows that there is a need for better, better quality and more efficient control of reports on the implementation of the institution's budget, but it is obvious that units of local self-government which are unfortunately also breaking the law. Unfortunately, I'm going to back that up with a concrete example of the city I'm from. In 2014, this Assembly adopted the Law on the restoration of Dubrovnik's monumental unit, which was then the ruling coalition and mayor of Dubrovnik. This was very important to our mayor at the time in order to raise as much funds as possible in the city of Dubrovnik's budget, while taking the funds from the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities, which is an example of good lord and practice of managing those walls for 62 years. Today, unfortunately, I live in a city that ran for the European Capital of Culture in 2020, which is the same law that this House did not respect. In 2014 the HDZ Club was against the adoption of this law, and according to today's report, for example, the City of Dubrovnik Reconstruction Institute, it is clear that it was absolutely right. Namely, the Institute for Reconstruction as a public institution in the City of Dubrovnik culture, so I warn you, Mr. State Auditors, does not receive funds from the City of Dubrovnik budget, which are intended by this law for the restoration of Dubrovnik's monumental whole, and thus the plan and programme for the restoration of the old city's core, which I under UNESCO protection as we all know. In addition, it should be said that, for example, in this cycle, the City of Dubrovnik is now a candidate for the European Capital of Culture, we also have an institution for the Dubrovnik Summer Games, which, according to this State Audit report, has not even removed the irregularities warned by the State Audit. And that we are not talking about the issue of professional employment, the revision of employment and the expertise of the administrative councils run by the cultural institution. It is precisely because, for example, the current and current leadership of Dubrovnik Summer Games only in last year's budget of the Ministry of Culture because of the poor programming and questionable programmes that took place at the Dubrovnik Summer Games caused damage to the play, one play and its insurance of 600 thousand kuna. The facts stemming from this report are that it is necessary to take account of the responsibilities of people who are headed by public institutions in culture, administrative councils and people who are headed by local self-government. It is certainly necessary to regulate the rights between the founders of cultural institutions and themselves and to insist on a regular and timely report on business and financial operations, as well as on employment policy, as well as to go definitely through self-financing and using EU funds, which unfortunately is bad for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2502	Thank you. The replica was reported by distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2503	Thank you very much. Comrade Putica, you mentioned in the debate a mess in the institutions of culture. But it seems to me that this mess is ahead of you in Dubrovnik. Only two of them will back up the data. In total, museums employ 542 employees. Of which 284 professionals and 258 others. It means something a little more professional than the others. But it's interesting that in Dubrovnik museums 25 works professionally and 51 others, twice as many auxiliary staff as professional staff. Twice as bad as in all museums and... Obviously, something in the Dubrovnik museums is unprofessional, the easiest thing to say is happening. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we analyze theatres, they hire a total employee in 1984. Of which 1044 professional and 940 others. A little more professional than the others again. But in the Marina Držić theatre in Dubrovnik again, the inverse situation of 14 experts, 29 others. Well, Dubrovnik's advocating the inversions, I think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2504	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Sanja Putica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2505	Dear Representative Maric, as you can see, Dubrovnik should be a city whose strategic development is based on culture and its cultural institutions. However, these indicators are obviously talking about the policy of embezzling in certain institutions in culture and about the need to consider further and more intensive professional teaming of these institutions. I would say that obviously the flow of money that has been increased in Dubrovnik in recent years has led to more lawyers and economists who would obviously take care of it and store these money in a very suspicious way into the city's budget. It should also be said that the institution in the culture of the Dubrovnik Museum, as regards their programmes and as regards the introduction of, for example, a Dubrovnik card that has brought increased visitors to the museums of the city of Dubrovnik, is highly commendable. So employment needs to be discussed but as regards their programmes and revisions, which showed positive reports on the establishment of the Dubrovnik Museum should certainly be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2506	Thank you. The next call came the distinguished representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2507	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues of Putica, you have rightly mentioned the Law on the restoration of the endangered monumental unit of Dubrovnik, which was passed by the Government and the previous Parliament on the proposal of the Ministry of Culture, which the law was disputed and against which we were in the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community for very many reasons because it was also unconstitutional which confirmed by the unconstitutional court by destroying certain articles of this law. But not only was it unconstitutional, it was damaged throughout the monumental whole, not only the city of Dubrovnik but also the area of the 9th seismic zone to which the law applies and which extends beyond the borders of the city of Dubrovnik. In fact, the law ordered that the city be financed by the Dubrovnik Reconstruction Office in the future. What a city like we heard and did not do even though it was prescribed by law. This same law and the Republic of Croatia have drawn out of the financing of Dubrovnik's monumental threatened whole, or 9th seismic zone, so that they are now out of funding by the foundation of this savings law. For example, the summer vacationers of the former Dubrovnik Republic stretching outside the town of Dubrovnik in Stone, Dubrovnik coast, Konvali, Župi Dubrovačka, Sokol city, etc., etc. So not only was that law bad. And there was an agreement between the HNS mayor and the HNS minister at the time, not only did we warn because we said that the law would fall to the assessment of the constitutionality as it happened but most tragically, the monumental integrity of the city of Dubrovnik and the entire 9th seismic zone is no longer funded by the state budget money and, as you yourself said, not the city's financing of the same renovation. Therefore, at that time we warned, I would now like the Government to change this law as soon as possible in order to make it possible to restore it, and I would really say the most vulnerable architectural heritage in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2508	Thank you. The following came to an individual debate with the distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2509	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Culture is the deepest and most important content of the identity of a nation. We can view culture with several aspects, as history, as a sediment and tradition but also as a modern present through compliance with the legal rules. The most bright point in culture is the finding of the State Audit, the State Audit report, and the darkest point in culture is the finding of the State Audit. This is how the reports work, this is how the State Audit works. These findings are too valuable, and it's almost no use to us so far. Time to open your eyes and return that dissension with the mind that happened in the field of culture, to finally begin and reason prevail. The findings confirm that the existing constitution understands culture, how it is experiencing it, and this constitution has shown all its exotic nature in the most sensitive sphere of the spirit of the people and ethnicity as a whole. And what are the results? So they cause nausea when they read. As only payment of copyright fees takes place, stimulating part of the salary, copyright works for permanent employees, more paid works for permanent employees than regular salaries. The financial reports almost do not correspond to the truth at all because they do not respect the principle of events, but are recorded so-called. the cash flow, not the date of the event. So if there's a commitment, let's say, at nine months last year, but that obligation wasn't paid, then it's not even registered as a liability, but it's only to be booked when it's paid and so almost to most institutions. There's an institution that's worth commending and I don't generally speak for all the institutions. There are institutions that are also listening to the State Audit recommendation and the removal of irregularities they have identified, a warrant is given but only half of 33 as determined. But since we don't have time to always just praise those, we have to highlight those negativity because we have to fight negativity, and actually normal business is common and we shouldn't point it out at all. The cashier's business is not in accordance with the law. Travel orders are miscalculated, loco driving wrong, whatever, public procurement. Whatever you touch wrong or do not comply with the regulations or do not comply with the law. In HNK Rijeka, a person in charge of public procurement is engaged in himself, ordering transportation from the company from the crafts he owns. That's what the report says. As an economist, both as a politician and as a representative, I am amazed at the findings of the State Audit, because this is happening especially in culture. But how and not when only the Ministry of Culture as a technical service to culture is an indicator of how it must not behave and how it must not be done. This finds me, all of us refer to the continuity of a socialist culture that serves to maintain a worthless state, and all of it is easy and to allow and implement when there is no responsibility for what is most important, and that is responsibility for identity. And where more does this responsibility for identity come from than in culture? In most cultural institutions in the majority, says counterpart Putica, too, is a mess and not just a mess. The government is indiscipline, confusion, anarchism. Everything that shouldn't be at all, let alone rule. Only the ministry allocated funds to the media that didn't exist at all, they weren't registered. Imagine this state of mind that allows it, not only allows but creates and realizes it? What's going on in those people's heads? The Ministry of Culture is an example of anarchy. HNK in Rijeka is an example of anarchy. And even some institutions that have received a conditional opinion impose the need to change the assessment criteria, because I will repeat, I said the other day, should not happen to get someone, not to get an unfavourable opinion if they did not respect any of the State Audit's recommendations and warrants. And that is why it is necessary to change these criteria, and it requires these criteria to be amended, and the European Union is also asking for greater involvement of the State Audit. But this commitment depends on the budgets. So they just need 5 million kunas more to finally go to HRT and determine the real state, but they don't now have the capacity all covered where they should go. That is why both the Croatian Parliament and we as representatives must make it possible to increase 5 million kuna on the occasion of budget adoption so that the State Audit can do what is expected of it. The State Audit Act should also be amended. There is, but it's not the subject of this right now, so I'm not going. However, what needs to be specifically noted is the structure of employees in cultural institutions. If there's any need for more professional staff than in cultural institutions, then that's it. And we cannot be satisfied that a total of 2747 professionals and even 1647 others have been employed in all cultural institutions. We can't even settle for that average. And then how can we accept only the findings of those institutions where there are twice as many others as professional ones. I only counted two, three from Dubrovnik. There are those from the south to the north, from museums, theaters, other institutions, libraries. There's a paradox in everyone, there's inverted situations in everyone. I just said in the replica what was going on at the Ministry of Culture. This anarchism that is ruling at the Ministry of Culture and that has come out of that famous commission that has caused so many storms because of the removal of the commission only shows that some people who are contrary to the existing are right. And I know that the hardest thing to do is to be an individual is to be opposite the current state. That's why not all these attacks on the individual who wants to change it, but we have to change the situation in culture, we have to change and show that economic illiteracy is there. That there is no institution that has not sinned on accounting standards, that actually there is no person out there who knows, understands finance and accounting and who knows how to obey laws. That is why institutions in culture need financial descriptiveness and we can only do so by training existing ones but by changing existing ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2510	Thank you. The replica was presented by distinguished representative Ivan Kirin, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2511	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor. This report, which we have heard and your comments and comments from other MPs since the financial report is all perfectly clear. But I think there should be programme reports in addition to the financial report. And why am I saying that? Because the esteemed representative said the situation in the HNK River is pl. The rabbit's depressed. It's not only depressing in the financial sense, we know how public procurement is done there, but also in the programming sense. We remember what happened on State Thanksgiving, what happened, you remember from the media of all the protests that happened. So, of the 64 institutions in culture, she only got an unfavourable opinion or got an HNK in Rijeka. And you know what the mayor of Rijeka said? He answered. I give them a favourable opinion and passage. And do you know how selected Mr. Fleacock's Intentant of the River Theatre is? He was elected to the city council. Therefore, there must be a change in how to choose leaders in culture or institutions. So that's it. That's what we need to talk about. Because if chosen in the City Council of the Rivers is it possible to change it simply? In what way? So we have to deal with the new law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2512	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2513	Thank you very much. Comrade Kirin, I agree with you that we should also analyse the programming part, but this is not the task of the State Audit Office. The State Audit Office shall monitor whether the state budget funds are spent in accordance with the law and regulations. But that software part depends mostly on the leaders. And the truth is that we have drama artists a year graduates a couple of tens of them might not be employed, there's work on the Stock Exchange. And these leaders of cultural institutions bring in directors from some newly-composed region, although the region is part of the state and not a community of states, bring in semi-actors from other countries, pay them out of the word, while our actors are drama artists on the labour market and have nothing to live on. That is why I agree that it is necessary to evaluate it. But it's not weird that it happened. Because there was a reidology in Croatia. And she's actually on her own, she's suffering from disorder, confusion and anarchism, that reidology. She's the reason for all of this. The burning of the Croatian flag turns out to be the third act of contemporary drama. This would not be acceptable in any country of the world, nor could anything but a criminal act be discussed at all. It is only possible in Croatia, unfortunately because of us as we are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2514	Thank you. Next came the replica by the distinguished representative Petar Škorić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2515	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Representative Maric, you have touched the financial effects of the audit report in your presentation and have generally concluded that it is in general in cultural, ministry organisations and everywhere a practical system of anarchy. Here, however, you did not mention the issue of political responsibility where political authority is being misused to favour the environments where only the figures of a particular political option in power are at the head of these cultural institutions. So we are witnessing that the former government has ignored numerous environments where they did not have their facilities, here is a concrete example of the City of Split, and here is an example of the Split Summer which, according to its rank, is identical to Dubrovnik Summer Games. For example, the City of Split as the second Croatian city received a quadruple of less than Dubrovnik Summer Games. So here is just what this government's relationship to the other Croatian city was like, according to the Split summer, here is where we spent almost a year trying to impose on us next to the Croatian National Theatre's indentator, so there is also a director of the Split Summer. So unnecessary dualism, unnecessary duplication of functions, unnecessary cost exposure and, in any case, we have also witnessed, for example, reports of the negative ones assessed by the revision of the Croatian National Theatre in Rijeka in which the previous government referred to institutions in culture. So she took a hand and a hat where they are, no matter what the mess is, which is ruled by anarchy as you pointed out yourself and no matter what institutions are abused in culture like the river HNK for insulting the state, national symbols and all Croatian. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2516	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2517	Mr. Škorić, thank you for noticing that I did not mention the political responsibility without which it could not be, but we did not actually notice that there was any expression of this responsibility except when the issue of that responsibility was raised here in the House once. But that, in itself, because of political hygiene or through some regular procedure, it was not remembered in Croatian young history. And you know, I've analyzed here for the last five years, especially this last year, the state audits in cultural institutions and the worst deteriorations have occurred precisely with the first days of political contact with the EU. What coincidence, where this EU culture does not allow culture to actually become part of the abandonment of its own country, has happened to us precisely those days of political contact with the EU where we have actually become a abandoned country and with the lack of political responsibility. The most important are those who decide who will be the head of the cultural institution. And it has not yet happened in practice to match the one who proposed to that person in Rijeka who received such results as established by the State Audit Office. Would you like to know who suggested the person in the Dubrovnik museums who hired twice as many others as the professionals? Because it's not only the one who's leading, but who's mind is producing such people who are culturally leaving the country? Until we reach this point, they will continue to create and harm Croatia in this same ideology. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2518	Thank you. The next individual debate was attended by a distinguished representative, Margareta Mađeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2519	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I also applied for participation in the debate on the financial audit of 64 cultural institutions covering financial reports and business unfortunately for 2013. I would be happier if we were to discuss 2014, 2015, because many of the leaders who led some of these cultural institutions are no longer at the top. What can certainly be read in this report is that the revision covers 23 libraries, 19 museums, 17 theatres, and 5 other institutions. The subject of the audit was the financial reports and operations of the institution for 2013. The objectives were as we could also read and hear in today's debates to determine the truthfulness and credibility of the financial reports of cultural institutions, to analyse the achievement of incomes and receipts and expenditures, in accordance with plans that the institutions in culture were obliged to deliver and bring, to verify compliance with the laws and regulations, to also verify and assess the effectiveness of the use of funds and other activities related to the operations of the institutions. What is certainly not positive and is not optimistic is that for a number of these institutions from year to year are the same warnings from the State Audit and are repeated again, so it is certain that there is a legitimate question of responsibility here. Since the most significant revenues of all institutions in culture, therefore their funding is currently coming from state and local budgets, almost 78.8% of the financing of total income and income. The most valuable expenditures are precisely those expenditures for employees so very little money actually stays for the programmes. And if we have in mind that in the past year, the culture of funding is almost a percentage that is smaller, so slightly greater than 0.5% and culture financing has never gone from 1% of the overall budget, we are actually talking about where the situation is and what the government's relationship to culture in Croatia has been in the last 4 years. And then on the other hand, we have the irresponsibility of institutions that don't bring in a work programme. Some have not even given the programme to competent authorities for adoption, which is illegal. No one reacts to that illegality. Surely there's a legitimate question to ask why. Because if they don't react, it encourages them to keep breaking the laws. In any case, the main conclusion is that culture is an area where any changes are needed. Significant changes from the legislation itself, of course, ways of financing, as well as the selection of leaders and their responsibility for both programmes and their spending of funds, from the budget of the state and from the budget of the units of local self-government. Because we know that the founders name administrative councils, there are no strategic documents and there is no regulated public procurement system that is absolutely necessary. In conclusion, the financial audit says that an internal control system has not been sufficiently established to ensure the legal and dedicated use of the funds which has also affected the occurrence of irregularities and failures in their business. Their leaders and founders of institutions are responsible for establishing an effective internal control system. So we know what responsibility it is, but it's not responding. Of course, administrative, or theatre councils play an important role by which founders can oversee the operations of institutions. For all identified irregularities and failures in business, the State Audit Office has given many tasks and recommendations to which implementation would contribute to increasing compliance with the laws, regulations and efficiency of use of funds. And now the question here is, why do a series of these orders and recommendations from year to year repeat and the institutions that get them, which are warned don't respond? So here are most MPs and MPs talking about the Croatian National Theatre in Rijeka, which only received a negative rating. Given that, I would point out a city theater in Zagreb. It's the Gavela City Drama Theatre, which received a conditional opinion. And that's about planning. So there are irregularities, then accounting business, expenditure and liabilities and assets. And why do I mention it? Because a number of facts have been found to express this opinion and the Zagreb City Theatre is funded in 86.7% of the total revenue achieved right from the Zagreb City budget and 73.9% of the funds it receives from the city of Zagreb, so the city budget goes to the employees. And what does the review say about that opinion? The theatre did not bring an annual work programme to include an art programme. So the most basic tasks of the theatre are not done. The Theatre Council was submitted for the adoption of a financial report for a three-month period of the year and an annual financial report until the programme report has been submitted. The decision to adopt the annual financial report was submitted by the Theatre Council to the City without giving reasons for adoption. Then it's about the list of assets. Therefore, a comprehensive list of assets and liabilities has not been completed. Also, most listed committees did not draw up a report based on lists and their observations. The correction of the value and part of the long-term assets is not carried out at the prescribed rates which form part of the budget accounting regulation and the accounting plan. The tenant of a business space for hosting activities did not carry out his contractual obligations and the theatre did not respond at the time, did not take the measures to collect the claim, for the lease of 15,5 thousand kuna or other actions related to the cancellation of the lease contract of that business space. So, you rent space for a catering facility, you don't react, you don't pay rent, but that catering facility still works. Expenditure also on intellectual and personal services amounting to 171 thousand kuna co-financed by the city's revenues, which according to the financial plan, were intended to finance expenditure for other services and other operating expenditures of the theatre. And what can we conclude? Definitely there are financial problems in the business of the Zagreb City Theatre of Gavela. We could read a lot about it in the media, and there was a big noise that came anyway when the head of accounting got fired from the principal. The director later turned out to be giving him an illegal notice. And after that, that accounting chief was returned to work. And why did he get fired? Because he has just pointed out these irregularities and irregularities related to the operation of the Gavela Theatre. Some of them were: payouts for making up fictional jobs. For example. Gavela theatre hired 7 information companies to inform the cash register and bookkeeping. It would be enough one or it could be taken from some other theatres that already have, the full annual revenue from tickets in one year was spent on representation, on payments from students and on promotion. And the city budget then had to pay off money for employees' salaries. Copyright fees were also paid multiple times. Apart from the usual rules, apartments in the city of Zagreb were leased fictitically, and all of this happened during the director who, when he showed up and I believe, also by finding this audit on the illegal business of the Gavella theatre, was handed out to the man and, as I said afterwards, returned him to work. Is there a responsibility? So today for 3 years, 4 after that, a possible partial responsibility can be concluded since the Gavella City Theatre has a new director, but the old director before being resolved by the Labour Regulation has established a job where he and the only job he later invented in all the cultural institutions in the city of Zagreb that act with the same salary as he was getting for the director. And I believe that since culture really gets the smallest funding from the city's budget, and then when does this money that gets spent in all of us raise the question where's the responsibility? Last week, here in the assembly, we could hear a lot about it, especially the opposition MPs said they were embarrassed to be ashamed. And I have to say that we need to be very uncomfortable, that we have to ask a question of responsibility and be ashamed that city budget and state money was spent in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2520	Thank you. The replica was presented by distinguished representative Ivan Vrdoljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2521	So just for a little while. I'm not much of a culturalist I have to admit and I had no intention of particularly discussing on this subject. But I want to draw attention to the course of the debate. So, the course of the debate goes there so that perhaps some social, political dialogue discourse should be put in real terms. This is where you first touched someone in the city of Zagreb. No mention of Zadar, Vinkovci, Krapina, Virovitica, Gospić, or seven institutions in the city of Zagreb was mentioned in all the debates. A little unusual. You can see that, it's a little unusual, so it's a little unusual and it should be introduced to the Croatian public. Whoever is interested in Croatian citizens read the audit reports, of all institutions whether half of those who have received conditional opinions are in position and half are not. We punish people. Don't punish groups of people, so just attack cities. I haven't figured out who's the worst of Dubrovnik, Split or Rijeka? Because it depends on where you came from, and then you're talking about Dubrovnik is the worst. Where do you get the right to say that when they raise their incomes that under suspicious circumstances it goes into the budget. So don't do it. I can take it here now, what can I get for Virovitica, Gospić, so I'm not a culturalist. I just wanted another interesting colleague, Maric, one sentence. Amazingly, we really like to say "Cold Beer" in these new songs of ours says, "We have attitude even when we have no idea." So, at the debate on culture that we are going back to the culture of socialist culture, that we are a culturally abandoned country colleague who, like me, gives the right to fellow Maric to say very clearly that we are abandoned culturally and to return to a socialist culture, and probably knows about culture maybe a little more than I do. I don't give it to myself. So little of the attitudes that we take here need to be based on some of our knowledge and experience, not on how it happens in this House. So here I warn you of the debate and the award-winning Croatians, to read the report and those half of the conditional reports by the people who are in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2522	Thank you. My colleagues on the right, I would like to ask my colleague Mađerić for one whole minute, and then let's be collegiate. It wouldn't be right for everyone in the assembly. Replica response, distinguished representative Mađeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2523	Thank you very much. To return this minute you gave me. Your Honor, no one is stopping you from discussing all cultural institutions that are the foundation of financial audits, and so was Gavella. And based on the documents they gave us here, we discussed it. It was discussed about Dubrovnik, Split, about the city of Zagreb and it is logical to discuss the institutions that are, therefore, operating in the city of Zagreb because more than 50% of the institutions in culture are just in the city of Zagreb. And it should be shown, pointed to inadequate, non-transparent and illegal means of spending both state and city budget money. It obviously bothered you that the director of the theatre came from the SDP, so you found yourself called, but you shouldn't. So it's publicly proven, and among other things, that director is no longer the head of the Gavell theater.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2524	Thank you. Dear Representative Jasen Mesic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2525	Dear colleagues, you've had a very good debate that has sparked the huge interest of SDP agents. I think there's a colleague from all over the party. They were so interested in what was happening to them in the past term in cultural institutions that they did not take part in the debate or in the name of the club. So they did not miss out on that, nor did colleagues respected by the HNS who, too, were so interested in what was happening in cultural institutions in the vault for which the HNS was responsible in the composition of the past government that they did not speak a word of it. It would be good for me to believe that it would be good for as many people to get involved in this debate each with some opinion based on an individual audit finding. Some colleagues and colleagues know more about Dubrovnik, and they know more about the situation. You know more about Zagreb, because that's where you work. I expected that a respected colleague of Vrdoljak when he replicated to you that he would point out the many irregularities that were in employment to the very cultural institutions in Osijek, so you had a situation to, say, appoint the Director of the Archives in Osijek and have your appointment twice dropped in the Administrative Court because of the illegal appointment of directors. That would be good if we could discuss this audit. I agree that each of us can think that culture knows a lot. It's a general right, and I can agree with a respected colleague. But that's exactly what culture and pleasure is about, to touch us all, that we all think we know as much about it as we do about football, as well as everything else. This is why it is very important to discuss cultural institutions, and that is why this review finding is also important to enable these institutions not to work in the future. And there have been these in all these decades.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2526	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Mađeric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2527	Thank you very much, dear colleague Jasen Mesic. I agree absolutely with everything you've replicated. Well, yes, it's really interesting to see what the interest of SDP's representatives is about this topic and that proves how much money they've given to culture in the last year's budget. But I am particularly sorry that the debate does not include fellow MP Stazic who represents himself for the moral vertical of the Croatian Parliament, who has several times in the last two weeks found himself ashamed and embarrassed by some of the phenomena that have been happening. So I really wanted to ask him if he was uncomfortable with reading this review report and the city theater financial report on Gavella? I think we should all blush for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2528	Thank you. The next individual debate was attended by distinguished representative Josip Boric, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2529	Thank you very much, Vice President. So here's to my opinion on this finding and the financial audit carried out by public institutions in culture for 2014. The State Audit Office carried out a financial audit of 64 cultural institutions covering both financial reports and business for 2013. The audit covers 23 libraries, 19 museums, 17 theatres and 5 other institutions. Incomes and receipts 881 million, expenditures and expenditures 894 million. Excess revenue and receipts for 2013 showed 34 institutions, a deficit of 29, and 1 had outsourced revenues and expenditures. The audit procedure was carried out from 10 September 2014 to 1 April 2015. Of the 64 institutions covered by the revision of the Republic of Croatia is the founder of 8 institutions, local self-government 52, and the founders of the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb are the Republic of Croatia with 51% share and the City of Zagreb with 49%. The founders of university libraries are universities. On 31 December 2013, the total value of the assets of the institutions was expressed at 2 billion and 687 million kuna and increased by 43 million kuna compared to the beginning of the year. We have already heard of financial reports 31 unconditionally, 32 conditional, and 1 unfavourable opinion. Without applying the prescribed procurement procedures in 2013, goods and services worth 14 million kuna were purchased. I am really wondering how this is possible with all the laws and rules that regulate that area in the Republic of Croatia. Unfavourable opinion is expressed for only one institution, the Croatian National Theatre Ivana pl. A rabbit in the river. The areas in which irregularities have been identified affecting the expression of the unfavourable opinion of the theatre are as follows: unexecuted accounts of previous audits, planning, accounting operations, revenues and claims, expenditures and obligations and public procurement. Six out of seven controlled areas. There was no problem except in the property area. Looking at all of them personally, I can conclude that public institutions in culture in part of finance and property are governed by how you can always say it in such artistic, very specific terms, we simply know how to act but with finances we obviously have some problems. Croatian National Theatre in Rijeka received income in 2012. 49 million 730 thousand and 2013 49 million 391 thousand kuna. It reaches the theatre about 40 million to 41 million kunas a year, almost 80 percent. We see from income that where those who are directors, who are directors, intentants, where their ability is expressed, their artistic gift, something that they have to provide to the public, we have indeed a minimum income of 3.8% of the total 100% of the revenues they encounter at year level. Why am I pointing this out? At the theatre here in 2013 we have the information visited by 72 thousand visitors, 227 performances with a capacity of 679 seats, i.e. Seats. The average filling is somewhere at 50% if we're going to take the average. Why did the negative opinion catch that theater in Rijeka? How is it that, with all the other techniques of financial and property management, they are simply not mastered, how are all those other techniques being mastered so as not to manage quality, professionally with property and finance? So we have a few examples here. As part of the income I say we have revenues from tickets a million and 314 thousand, from a 706 thousand subscription, income from a sublet of a catering facility is a special story, 27 grand. In February 2011, the theatre gave the above-mentioned catering facility of 82 metres square in sublet directly without an invitation to tender and without the agreement of the city of Rijeka with the obligation to invest. And finally, we see that this investment that was agreed on at 130 thousand at the end is not entirely fair for almost 46 thousand kuna, which determines the audit. The theatre did not assess the value of investment in construction and equipment and did not draw up a download record. It was necessary to seek, of course, the previous consent of the City of Rijeka. But it didn't somehow forget. The expenditure on the team reached in the amount of 276,000 almost 100 thousand more than a year ago, although the director claims it is never less in the history of the theatre. Costs for renting 7 apartments of 322 thousand of which 4 apartments, listen to this 4 apartments for accommodation of external associates 230 thousand kuna, which per apartment for 12 months is about 5 thousand kuna in the City of Rijeka. What are these apartments with so much rent? And for 3 apartments for employees of the theater 90 thousand kuna. Really outrageous. However, we are not surprised by the way it is done in that theatre but also by the way the present intent came into that theater. Something my colleague Mesic was talking about. He mentioned an agreement that I don't know if you've gotten an insight into, given that your finding is that. your actions at the time after the signing of the agreement and regarding the time and certain benefits achieved by the head of the theatre at the time when he led means former ingenuity. What happened there? The agreement was signed on 10.7.2014. we had a decision by the City Council of Rijeka since 15.5.2014 that the new director would be appointed almost a year later in the 4th month, 1.4.2015. But in the seventh month, everything changed and new moments came. The following is now being offered, given that Rijeka is running for the European Capital of Culture, a new intention should be made to the new City Council decision on office from 1.9.2014. Then, through other provisions, the rights of the so-calledincidents are also agreed. So it's said that the contract at a certain station is a contract indefinitely. However, when journalists were interested, then we get the information that this contract that has been mentioned in fact has been indefinite since 2007. It is then recognised at the time of the resolution from 1.9 to 31.3.2015 the right to pay which it received on the basis of a new contract and the difference in salary which it should receive as a resolved indemnity. In addition, an award of 75 thousand for a special artistic contribution is added. Maybe it's nothing to argue with. But then the City of Rijeka commits itself to ensure that the former ingenuity is free from interference outside the theatre, meaning on the guests. And the lady went on a visit to Italy and was fired in the 6th month explaining that she did not respect the positive regulations of the theatre itself. Of course, it can all be concerned and it really needs to be clarified there because not only because of this negative opinion but I think it's time for that institution to go back there and review but also for the other institutions to see what's really going on there. Because this agreement that's been declared a secret becomes really an alarm to see what's going on out there. The theatre, apart from the art programme, unfortunately has a political programme that lasts for the last 2 years with the arrival of a new intent. The result of the political programme is not better financial results but has managed to bring in various events that included what the SDP said in the satir, and we think it is quite something else, the citizens began to gather outside the theatre. The cheerleading group, coming from Armada, came from Croatian defenders, came from other citizens of the City of Rijeka to rebel against the way it is managed by the theatre. They showed up there and some replicas of kalashnikovs, even unfortunately the worst. There were also physical conflicts. This is the result of the action of the political programme, where the current intent is unfortunately in a keen desire to bring people into the theater managed only to lead people to the door of the theatre. I can understand that, however, Mr. Frljic, who expects the return of Yugoslavia, communism, who says to us Croatians that we are a fictional nation, which calls democracy evil with such a finding of review, can pass through the maybes in that time, the former times of communism or self-government where such finds themselves desirable. However, today certainly not and therefore I call on the Mayor of the City of Rijeka to base this finding, but not only on this one, but also on those who followed the decision to simply resolve the intent, enable the smooth functioning of theatres as houses of art and not as houses of politics because the citizens of the City of Rijeka deserve it and so is the whole area of the Republic of Croatia where we do not have such problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2530	Thank you. The replica was reported by distinguished representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2531	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you described everything well to your colleague Boric, and you said that out of the 7 areas of 6 you got a negative grade, you counted most of it, and you said that everyone in this time could have gone through as directors, and this last one, regardless of what these mistakes were doing and what they're doing today, their incomparability of this man you're talking about would have been better defined as a political likeness and not an inconsistency resulting from intellectual services that you didn't mention and amounting to 5,958 867 kuna. And the individual or most paid individual fee for one theatre project is 25,454 euros. Imagine what a great work was done in that noble John Zajc theatre in Rijeka with such a paid fee? And since none of the state institutions but the owner himself has responded to such failures that I have made here, I call on the state institutions and, in particular, the state attorney's office and the USKOK to deal with this audit report and to instruct its employees to look at who funded it, in which way and from which grounds this undefined and this kind of caratically. I don't know what to say that 512 copyright contracts were paid at the height of 4 million 737 thousand kuna. Well, imagine what a wasteful waste in that theater with no grounds, no justice, and nothing else. The same as in civil society associations that were so loud and clear many times stood up and testified against the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2532	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished representative Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2533	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Djakić, I have been amazed by certain figures because we have looked at the full find and, let's say, from our basic activity, which is the art of performing a certain theatre performance in Osijek and Varazdin making more money than the theatre in Rijeka, and this is, in our opinion, the most exposed but not by what it does in culture, but by how it behaves in public space, i.e. Which burdens this ingenuity and probably those in a keen desire to deal with politics forget about these things. That's why I said they manage these public funds artistically, specifically, like the other day. Because I don't believe that the 300 employees there are almost half of them, are not artists, so people are employed at the theatre, there aren't enough experts that can bring finance into order, certain property relations, a list of assets, and everything that the audit has been ordering them for years and every year finds that they haven't done at all according to the findings of the previous year. Well, of course you're in... Time comes what is inevitable and that is a negative opinion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And instead of dealing with the audits, they want to deal with politics because it's obviously a political project that should have produced results in these elections, and it's probably going to last until the local elections and then maybe it's something different. These figures warn that not only the revision, once again, but all other institutions should visit the theatre. Because this agreement that I got here today clearly shows what's going on out there. Because someone put this outside. I didn't get this from Mr. Fleischman. Why is it done in a secret way? Here's what I'd like to know. If you don't have it, Mr. Auditor, I'll give it to you and you explain to us if you've seen this and if this can be done at all. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2534	Thank you. The next call came the distinguished representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2535	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm really surprised that you understand these new trends in Croatian culture. 'Cause look, someone promotes that they can insult to the unconscious, they can call anyone what they want, they can do all kinds of games, pictures, sculptures, etc. And at the same time, when you politely respond and say that it is not appropriate, you are rude, primitive, backward, etc. But it's very interesting that in these new trends in culture there is disorder, intransparency also wants to be portrayed as something that is backward, atypical, abnormal. But it's very interesting that it comes from the ranks of those who keep teaching us all how wonderful everything is, wonderful where they are and this is all reserved exclusively for one political option. So I'm really surprised that you as an experienced man, an experienced politician didn't notice these new trends. Because I'm not sure that you and the other colleagues who dared to mention this in the Croatian Parliament will not be on any poster, hanged or anything else. But what's more tragic, and that's why I volunteered for the replica, is that these findings are not responded by the representative body and by the mayor of the city, who is basically responsible for the funds paid by its citizens. And the question is whether that's what all the citizens of that city want to see or whether it's a minority. But you know what? You have a jargon, and that's something even said in the Law on the financing of political parties, so-called political parties. covert campaign financing. Doesn't this look like something to you?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2536	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished representative Boris. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2537	Thank you very much. Comrade Shuker, I can agree with you in the part where you say that these are possible new trends, i.e. As you say, performance. We hear from the left of the satire. Every time they get into some kind of problem or gaff or crime or affair, then it satires on the left side, satires. For us there are institutions and for them satirical theatres, I guess. And that's probably how this is gonna go. The city council reacted. But we don't know if it's been replaced because of the audit findings because they said it's being replaced because Rijeka is running for the European Capital of Culture. That's how it's written. But we can see that something came before time and at a time when that intensity shouldn't be intensible. So it's done, I say the first decision will be 1.34.2014 and he becomes something before the indent, almost half a year. So I tell you stories I can't pass. But I'm surprised by something else, there's a satire involved solely by one option and one side. It's the Patriot coalition, mostly HDZ. And they're always hanging up some kind of posters and plays are on the subject of either the Homeland War or all the values we respect. But there's no satire on the left side. Let's say for the mayor. Well, there's no way he's hanging some poster or flag he's gonna write on, I don't know, Obersnel Energo. We don't know how to solve the heat problem in the city of Rijeka, for example. Or Obersnel bus stop called longing. And we'll hear that again as a promise in the 2000 elections and I don't know, 2017, when they are. Or Obersnel something else, seagull, Tito's ship. So there's no satire like that. Why? Because it can't be. And that is why we believe that this is one kind or one political pillar based on the covert campaign of a party to continue to be in power in the city of Rijeka.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2538	Thank you. The next call came the distinguished representative Ivan Vrdoljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2539	Thank you very much, Vice President. So, really me, I agree that sometimes we miss things, so I guess my colleague Boric missed what his colleague Schuker pointed out. But he also missed the amazing information from the city library, Vinkovci reading room in the 2013 process of millions and 30,000 kunas of public procurement. Everything was below 70,000 kuna so that no public procurement was required. Maybe it was a tool to fund some campaigns. And really here I am, and he almost missed it, and I almost missed it. In Vinkovci it happens from a million and 30, of the total budget of 3 and a half million only purchases that were made, it worked without public procurement, so I wanted to point out that we can't track all the data, so sometimes they miss out on some of the machinations probably from some environments like the Vinkovci or somewhere else. And I just want to refer to my colleague Mesic. I'll remind you, HDZ supports power in the city of Osijek. If you're not satisfied with the government in the city of Osijek, take us down, and it's not a problem. You support us in that town, I thank you for that, obviously we're good for you. So that she's your dyspression around the city of Osijek if we're not good for you, you've had time to take us down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2540	We're slowly praying to the MPs. Here's a reply to the replica, distinguished representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2541	My colleague Vrdoljak, I come from the 8th constituency and the nearest theater is really this theater for me and I haven't been to Vinkovac. I don't know what's going on out there, but it probably does, too, probably. But this is pretty close to me because when you talk about these very small purchases, I didn't want to mention it. In the city of Rijeka, i.e. In that theater, it's 90% of all purchases up to 70,000. Now we've given them through the law changes so they can do a little bit more. It will probably be 100% now, because I said that without public procurement, everyone in the Republic of Croatia has managed to negotiate nearly 14 million kunas. That the mayor, the mayor, or anyone else, would dare to do that, so you've already written yourself some kind of indictment. And that's why we have the right here to keep asking ourselves what's worth discussing this way, so what's worth is discussing the findings of the audit if there's no handling of the competent authorities, the DORH, there's no shifts, no departures. Everyone stands in their seats, everyone behaves the same way, and every year we determine that someone manages to make a mistake in 6 out of 7 observed areas. And we're moving on again. I think it really should be on that trail that we were talking about bringing to one order and responsibility really to put on the first person, but also to the founders of those who are most recently funding theatres, and the city of Rijeka largely allocates almost 80% of the resources to the functioning of that space, i.e... institutions. And I think that, with more or less of a say of certain objections to everyone, this negative opinion is insecure and that the reason for this is to be handled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2542	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2543	An immediate apology for the intrusion, but I must say that the distinguished Mr. Vrdoljak representative hurt Article 238, because he was talking about an issue that was not the subject of debate. So, I said when I appointed Director of the State Archives Osijek, it had nothing to do with the city of Osijek, but it had nothing to do with it. This has to do with the ministry that was in HNS's quota in the past government where a man who had no basic conditions was appointed to the principal so that the appointment failed twice in court. So, the thing about Osijek as a city has nothing to do with it because it's part of the ministry's intelligence. So you've misconnected it to the city of Osijek because it's exclusively about the Ministry of Culture's intelligence.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2544	Thank you. The following came to an individual debate with the distinguished representative, Maro Kristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2545	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. I personally support most of today's speakers who have spoken in a very professional and well-founded way about problems in public institutions in culture which, unfortunately, this year too, carried out the State Audit report. The fact is that problems happen year after year, they are recorded. But they don't get rid of each other. The main problem is the anarchy that governs the cultural scene, the lack of strategic documents and the irresponsibility of cultural workers, including founders, but also us in the Croatian Parliament who do not make enough suggestions and enough comments that would be in terms of improving cultural activity. Therefore, we in MOST of Independent Lists suggest that, in the practice of the Croatian Parliament, other than these regular reports of the audits carried out, the introduction and reports of corrected shortcomings for all those institutions that had a conditional or negative opinion of the State Audit, and then the Croatian Assembly, but according to the recommendation of the Croatian Assembly and municipalities and cities, i.e. the administrative council of the institutions in culture, will have the opportunity to resolve and replace all those directors who are not able to conduct their duties professionally. It should also be insisted by the founders, also on the recommendation of the Croatian Parliament to coordinate, to bring all institutions in culture in line with their internal rules on internal order, i.e. to bring all coefficients in line at all levels, to combine public procurement procedures and generally manageable processes such as accounting and marketing in public institutions, because if they had such a situation then the ratio between those professional and those of which we spoke a few hours ago in the Croatian Assembly would be significantly different from those who are professional. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2546	Thank you. The replica was reported by distinguished representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2547	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Kristic, you have noticed well and I support this proposal that all those who have been observed with irregularities because otherwise the report would not even make sense to come before this body and tell us to the national representatives i.e. to the whole public what it is and who it is to be, how it will be rectified. Because this is how that old saying is worth shaking every year is basically empty straw. This is about huge money, as everyone saw, not just you, but everyone before you who spoke professionally and who came from that branch. And now look that this money is focused on something that we have on all the territories in your Dubrovnik how many cultural events we have to go towards Slavonia or, let's say, in my Sinj, which I'm proud of in Sinjska Alka to promote it properly. Because what he said in '90. Year 1st Croatian President Dr. Franjo Tudjman what symbolises Sinjska alka symbolizes the survival of a Croatian man in these areas 300 years of tradition. That we invest in something quite minor in what we should and that we invest what obviously brings us problems as a society, intransparency. And by investing in such institutions as Sinjska alka which also has a religious dimension, which has a cultural value, it would be a tourist potential with which we would be proud of the entire Croatian people. Therefore, the urgent need for this money that leaks through a variety of how I've told local sheriffs in culture that they need to be interrupted immediately, they need legal changes, they need to listen to people from the audits who are doing their job. And we will be as these before us and each other have been responsible for all governments so far, not just this previous one, and we will take part in the responsibility. I therefore support you with this attitude that the Most Independent Lists should urgently move into this to be realized in reality, not to remain on cherry empty straw. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2548	Thank you. The esteemed chief state auditor, Mr. Ivan Klešić, does not want the closing statement. So that concludes the debate. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2549	Now we'd move on to the vote on the points we've done. First report on the financial audit carried out by public institutions in culture. Reporters shall be the State Audit Office. The debate is closed. I am giving the vote the conclusion that the report on the financial audit of public institutions in culture has been carried out. Please vote. The vote is over. 118 votes in favour, so I find that a unanimous conclusion has been reached in the text of the applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2550	We're going to the next item on the agenda. - Final draft law amending the Law on Strategic Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 3 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. You received the reports at the session. The amendment was submitted by the Club of Representatives of the Most and the Committee on Legislatives. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Here's what he wants. I call on the representative of the proponent of the distinguished Economy Minister Tomislav Panenic to explain the proposal, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2551	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs. Here, I'd like to introduce you to the amendments to the law and the final proposal. So, the Law on Strategic Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia entered into force on 14 November 2013. The main reason for the law was the urgent launch of the investment cycle as the main driver of development and development of the Croatian economy. The law reduces and significantly speeds up the processes for the implementation of the overall documentation necessary for the implementation of the project itself, and especially if it is marked out of strategic interest, then the additional passivity of all procedures is obtained. Since the entry into force of the Strategic Investment Projects Act, 4 public projects have been declared to be strategic investment projects, which are total values around cca 12 billion kuna. What is important to say is that there are currently six public projects on the list of strategic investment projects, as well as six private investment projects and their value is somewhere around 4 billion kunas. Law enforcement it actually includes and what is an important part and for what it does today and proposes this change is active... Decisions taken by the Commission to assess and identify proposals for strategic projects. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the same commission was established by the government's decision on 18 December 2013. At present, we have an administrative check for about 50 projects, reported projects waiting for the 1st session of the commission to be included in the strategic project list at all. Therefore, these amendments that we are proposing also help to push these projects precisely through a valid law, which is why we approach this amendment. It is prescribed that the chairman of the commission, under the position of the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, is responsible for the economy and investment. However, as this distinguished House knows, the formation of a new Government is not the intended place of vice-president in this form nor the possibility that the Vice-President of the Government is also responsible and also Minister of Economy and therefore we believe that it is necessary to amend this provision in a way that the President of the Commission is in the position of the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, in order to make it more clear that the decision to declare a strategic project is repealed, and in the event that it is necessary to do so by means of provisions stating that the decision to put aside is to replace the words of the cancellation decision. Finally, the Proposer considers that the law amending the Law on Strategic Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia will allow for the continuation of work and decision-making of the Committee for the Assessment and Definition of the Proposals of Strategic Objects and the announcement of as many strategic investment projects as possible. And make it all expensive to encourage investment. I would like to ask the Croatian Parliament to bring this amendment by emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2552	Here's a thank you to the Honorable Minister. Immediately replicated representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2553	I would only ask, given that you stressed that the amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Club of Representatives of the Most maybe it would be good if the minister, not to wait for a meeting of the Government,... Just a little bit, according to the Government's Rules of Procedure, let me say to the end that you know what I'm trying to say. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So the last government introduced a provision that the proposing cannot adopt the amendment at the plenary session, but must wait practically for the government's session because the government must adopt the amendments. That's why I answered my word to say it. And you fellow Anticevic, if you're such a nostradamus and you know what I mean, then you should have said it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2554	The violation of the Rules of Procedure is the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2555	.../Specially included... the debate is open. If a representative of the Government would come now and the contrary, we are here to protect the whole, just a moment, the whole legal order, including the Rules of Procedure of the Government and our Rules of Procedure. First of all, I will look back and that is, as far as I know, such a Rules of Procedure and such a provision is not put out of force because it must be determined by the Government. Look at the Rules of Procedure. But secondly, what is important here in our debates when the debate opens here, so let's open a debate on the proposal and the amendments. In the case of what you suggest, therefore, regardless of the first part of what I said, such a proposal, or these amendments, would become an integral part of the proposal, of the government's proposal. And that's what we're opposed to.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2556	Here's a thank you. ... Here, please, all right, here's the honorary minister. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2557	Thank you very much. Here I am familiar with the two amendments I have. One is an amendment that comes before the Assembly Committee on Legislatives and the other is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. I would stress about this if we were primarily going to change this law so that the commission could function as such because that's something that I should say is a priority means that we get into just so that the procedure doesn't stop. Taking part in the session of the Committee on Legislatives, I am also familiar with the proposal for an amendment where one was created to say a slight failure of a nomotechnical nature where the term "decision decision" was essentially to replace the words "decision decision" to apply to the whole law where the principle was missed in Article 11 and the amendment as such, I agree with it and I can accept it. And on this second amendment that came before the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists he was to say proposed in terms of amendments to the law itself. What I would stress here is that as well as my ministry, we have considered it, but given the speed associated with the needs of the commission but we have also considered the necessary changes to this law of some whole that would be launched. I would suggest that this amendment should be made known to me, but that maybe we don't have to discuss it here, so that we can discuss it in the full debate when changes are made to accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2558	Thank you. ... I thank the Honorable Minister. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take a word in front of the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Economy? If not, here I am opening the debate. The first one came to the debate, a distinguished colleague, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic, in front of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2559	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues here at the plenary session we can also discuss some acts, the first acts sent by the government. In fact, some have misrepresented themselves in front of our committees, so the first legislative proposal, which bears the name, which is under the number of the 2nd Proposed Law on the short payment of salaries, is withdrawn on the basis of the years of work experience, the second proposal of the Law amending the Law on Management and Property of the Republic of Croatia did not go before the Committee on the Constitution, and the one we are discussing today, which we are discussing today, the proposal of the Law amending the Law on Strategic Investments and Projects of the Republic of Croatia with the final proposal of the law which has 4 articles including this law, that the law enters into force 8 days from the day of publication in the National Journal, which is a constitutional obligation, two-thirds of us have changed the initiative of the SDP MPs and acting by amendment to the Committee itself. It is good that the increased work of representatives in working bodies, however, we expected much more from the government itself, not only in proposals and above all in content. HDZ and its President, Karamarko, discussed in the pre-election campaign a catalogue of desirable investments, offering foreign and domestic investors investment in numerous projects throughout Croatia with a list of investment costs, incentives offered and the necessary permits to be introduced to investors from the start with the advantages of investment in Croatia. Strategic projects were listed for the development of the entire Croatia, such as the Pelješko bridge, the watering project of Slavonia, the construction of railways, sea ports, river ports. Spectacular announcement, investment attraction and realisation of more than 50 development investment projects from HDZ itself, I am not talking from the price of the coalition, but from only HDZ catalogues from agricultural production, irrigation, energy, transport infrastructure, re-industriousisation, and what we said, yes, digitisation. Here's what we got. We got basically that reform already at the beginning means my chair, my reform. So it's changing who's going to be where, who's going to sit. Of course, when a new set comes that needs to be settled and we don't argue. But what is worrying and what really worries the citizens, so every government must have both trust and trust in its citizens, after all, which it has won in the elections. But such a mutual mistrust is good control and it is healthy but no government can function in the coalition, even if it is a party itself if it has no mutual trust. So this is about a mutual mistrust, and that's why everything that's going so slowly is going slowly because of it, and that's something that's seriously worrying. This has also led to the fact that Article 2(3), but here we are amendments if you have looked at the amendments of the Legislative Committee that the amendment to Article 11(4) would remain in the text of this existing law, where it is said about putting out of force, instead of revoking as may now be right and proposed. So content and practically what this is about is who's going to do this commission. And here it is obvious that there is something more active MOST that has little or no confidence in its partner, coalition or what is called a coalition or a group that is in power, cooperation has no trust. And it's a good thing there's no Most Trust in HDZ. This is certainly good, on the one hand, but on the other hand it really blocks the work itself and the speed of decision-making. You in the executive power, and here, especially the executive authority, must make decisions on a daily basis. Now, with regard to this amendment, which has caused us at the SDP club so much interest because we appreciate above all good intentions. The good intentions of MOST as congratulating businessmen, whether they perform as natural persons or legal persons to hire or give them these, give them these jobs. However, what we cannot go beyond and well that the minister reacted this way because he was essentially responding to the content itself but thus to the Rules of Procedure itself. According to our Rules of Procedure, we must also stick to the Rules of Procedure which speak exactly about how the amendments are submitted. Therefore, if the final draft of the law amends or complements the law, the amendments may only be submitted to the articles covered by the proposed amendments and amendments, of course and in the content form. However, MOST, the promoter, the club, is perfectly clear on that provision. In order to comply formally with that standard, Article 9 which amends something which does not fall within the scope of this Standard. And if that doesn't belong to it, it doesn't have to be a great knowledge of the law, it's enough to open the law and to open an article 9 that changes and in which MOST would intervene with this amendment whose intentions I say are really important and that should be considered afterwards. Article 9 shall bear the title of the list of strategic projects. And that bridge would react with its amendment that those convicted of certain crimes could not compete. This cannot, it does not, but would eventually fall within Article 5 which speaks of criteria for selecting strategic projects or in Article 6 concerning the application process of projects or the content of applications, because it is already in this article. 7. Since I already have the content of the application in Article 7 of the current law says where these entities, i.e. the interested investor, must provide a detailed profile of the company, confirm that it has fulfilled the obligation to pay the tax obligations due, health insurance, so all that has been imposed on it as an obligation so far. Therefore, this can only fall under Articles 5, 6 or 7. Therefore, the esteemed representatives of the MOST Club missed not only the article but also the whole head, because Chapter 2 speaks about the criteria and procedures of the reporting of strategic projects and what is changing is the process of assessing the selection, preparation and implementation of strategic projects when the project, so when the realisation itself has already improved far. However, as an important initiative is concerned and the minister is saying that this should be taken into account, it should be kept in mind that, in this amendment, we have listed some of the crimes that are so called Colloquial. And somewhere only the Heads are listed and somewhere truly the name of that crime. And all in the same level. Well, for example, we have a record of who was convicted of a crime against the environment. There's no crime against the environment, there's a criminal head, there's a chapter 20 that talks about crimes against the environment, so you have a whole series of crimes there, like, unauthorized or unlawful disposal of radioactive substances, which is the greatest danger that's not even listed here. So, you can't see what system and order it is, so there are certain crimes against which we at the SDP club don't mind if it doesn't fit into that catalogue. However, it is surprising why some are unjustly left out as, for example, Article 246 which is a fundamental crime and a supreme act, a more serious crime in economic business, which is the abuse of trust in economic business referred to in Article 246 but also the misuse of trust when it comes to the natural person referred to in Article 240. Then, where there is a criminal offence, it is also very dangerous in Article 265, which is a crime of money laundering or abuse of the subsidy of the right referred to in Article 258, and I am talking because Croatia is burdened with a grey number of this type of crime. Then the cause of bankruptcy. I'm only saying this for the sake of being prepared to take care of, therefore, the severity of criminal acts. But equally for us, not every investor who can have, as far as this is concerned, is spotlessly clean, but who doesn't pay the workers, doesn't pay social, pension insurance. Why do we need an investor like that? Therefore, violation of the right also from criminal offences, rights to, which speak of the rights of workers, violations of labour rights, non-payment of wages, abuse of labour are also serious crimes, and also crimes against general security. Let's say the building where the houses are destroyed, where the great damage can be caused. So, you need to take a look at that, too. Of course it's safe to suggest, we can't right now, we don't know what the promoter thought, who are legally convicted persons. But there was no mention of rehabilitation, it is indeed understood. However, we, in all the laws where I have just tax-listed criminal offences for which certain persons are physically or legally unable to compete or perform certain tasks is explicitly stated, until rehabilitation takes place. So here is the consideration of this, and it is seen that this has been submitted in accordance with our Rules of Procedure and that all the crimes they have committed have been able to accept. But I believe that's what's gonna happen. However, the concern is, therefore, that all domestic and natural and legal persons are easily checked in the proposal and stands. But we have problems with foreign investors. And with the best intention that can happen, so the foreign investor we don't know where they are from or if they don't have similar opportunities to give criminal information especially to foreign countries or countries where they invest and where they don't have a seat to prove their impunity. Here, the promoter from MOST suggests that he go to the notebook or notary, but that he sign himself that he didn't answer. That can be true, and it doesn't have to be. At that point, we put domestic investors who are under an increased glass of this, and above all, we would be happy to find anyone else who has to go through all these criteria that we welcome. It will come in disfavor, which is otherwise in a more unfavourable position than foreign investors, which we cannot control at all by many things or by economic parameters, let alone by these criminal-legal parameters. No other countries like us are being exposed by providing data from criminal records to foreign citizens. So according to your best intentions, we can do our homework, and this is how we rehabilitate the sides. That is why the SDP club cannot support this amendment. So, but we're also getting caught up in you, Mr. Minister, what you just said earlier, that you've already rated a good part like this with just one sentence of what I was talking about on behalf of the club at the very beginning with regard to these formal shortcomings regarding the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2560	Thank you. The replica was reported by distinguished representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2561	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In her presentation, she said that, in fact, most of her talk about MOST's relations, so off topic, maybe at that point you should have even taken advantage of business opportunities. But thank you very much for your excessive concern about MOST and the state of the Most and the Patriot coalition in cooperation. We hope honestly that she said that two-thirds of the proposals are ahead of the SDP and that's nice that you supplement our mistakes and what you're saying about our mistakes. However, you cannot talk about any trust or mistrust of MOST and the Patriot coalition. MOST won't be attached to anyone. It may be much easier for the SDP to work with their stickers, but the Most here is clear reforms that you signed so quickly at the time of the negotiations and I hope you will continue with this work, and I particularly agree with you in this section that you should not fly and give priority to foreign investors and thank you for that. However, please do not overpriced or overestimate the coalition, because it is clear what you have signed, is also signed by the Patriot coalition and we expect you to be on this trail in future work for the sake of this country's well-being. Because unfortunately, we're sorry that you haven't changed all this in the past four years and made this better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2562	Thank you. Replicate reply, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2563	Based on this law in the plan, you can see on all the pages that are strategic investments. But HDZ, not you, but HDZ specifically, I don't know if you agreed, but obviously you didn't, he said he'd give it up. But let's put it aside now. You can't say that when you say that. It's my duty to speak and you don't have to agree with it, but I mostly agree with what you said you'd control HDZ. They need to be controlled, too. I believe that's not easy. But what I'm trying to say is that what I'm trying to say is, and I don't want to be vindictive at all, and I don't want to be cynical at all, but it creates a real impression that in your desire to control them, they have to be prepared for it, but they obviously provide some resistance or somewhere beyond when you agree to come out with something again, and that's why it really creates the impression that it's going too slowly. Well, you see, we've been dating here all this time with something that's been done by the government. And you're right to say what we could have decided before, but then it would prove even more that you don't have any almost legal proposals. I'm saying, you've had three proposals and one has been withdrawn, the other has not passed on the Committee on the Constitution and this third SDP has changed it to two-thirds of the Committee on Legislatives. And I don't think it's your fault.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2564	Thank you. Next came the replica by the esteemed representative Branko Hrg, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2565	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, I actually thought that you would take advantage of this item of the agenda and amend this law to present on behalf of the SDP Club how many strategic investments were launched under the existing law, since it seems to me to be valid since 30.12. But you're here talking about how the Patriot coalition promised certain investments, certain projects in the election campaign. So here I am now giving you a chance to actually list a few strategic investments that this law has managed to bring to the Croatian state because somehow I can't remember a single one in particular. What I expect is that this law will see a slightly stronger change, that it will comb a little harder because the way it was brought in in principle it couldn't bring anything special. As one economic analyst says about this law when it was discussed by the Strategic Investments Act is an ad hoc intervention of economic government in the economic system and an allocation of private and public sector investment that cannot have a positive impact on sustainable economic growth and employment. What is the biggest observation in principle is that in this law, the existing law completely neglects regional development, the even development of Croatia, and that it does not provide for helping the ends of Croatia which are therefore in a slightly weaker growth of the economy and which have weaker investments. So here's a chance for you to explain a little bit in this section when you were already talking about the Patriot coalition and the programs that are strategic projects that came out of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2566	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2567	I'm surprised you as a member of the ruling coalition didn't even read, let alone have something new. Maybe you just read what he's giving up on. Over 2 billion euros in investment, and you can look at it on the pages of the strategic investment projects of the Republic of Croatia, so you will see nicely what these projects are. It would take me seven, eight minutes to read it to you. But for HDZ, if the Most was like you they wouldn't have any problems, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2568	Thank you. Next came the replica by the distinguished representative Željko Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2569	Dear President, we've been listening to smoke curtains for four years about some kind of development, investment, etc. I'll read you the country's neutral reports, which is the second largest investment here since '93. And what they wrote, this is the end of '15. A year, actually before the election, I'd say. This is how many announced projects are not yet prepared, bureaucratic obstacles cause delays. In some cases, funding is also questionable since state-owned companies as contractors cannot receive financial resources without state guarantees. Still, tax authorities are trying to increase tax discipline since the share of the grey economy in GDP is 30%. However, tax inspectors who are not always well - trained and sometimes questionable are treating entrepreneurs. What legal certainty we've been waiting for since '95. A year? Furthermore, the strong need for reforms exists further in the administrative field, land books, procedures for granting consent, the co-operation of administrative authorities in the fight against judicial corruption, too long duration of proceedings, application of rights... many state-owned companies and in the work law and school system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That means there's no legal certainty or anything. If it takes 64 weeks for construction permits, if the Croats outside are completely excluded from economic and social development and it takes them three years for citizenship. Without legal certainty, there's no investment at all, it's just a trick and a smoke screen. It says the Constitution and the laws appear in a pen where it is deleted every day, no one can interpret it. No state is going to invest in this kind of legal mess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2570	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2571	All this colleague you were saying is unfortunately true and burdens Croatia from the very design. So, therefore, it is fundamentally not only to edit land books, which is a base but also to make it an efficient public administration where there is talk about how many there are. So, I'd use my replica here to tell you that more, so someone's always someone and somehow got hired where they really need to break up with it and see which people in the public administration are satisfying, are service to citizens who are not and can't be. The team would have to thank and leave that place to someone else, and that would only be possible if their work were measurable. Of course, those standards are not easy to make, but they were already among some of our colleagues who were in the past constituency some attempts and should be used. However, that Croatia has improved in the past period, you will see it on the pages of the World Bank Doing Business in Croatia, and you will see how much percentage points have improved and how much easier it is to do business in Croatia. However, it should also be said that investments for someone to come, we also had such investors coming to Croatia where they would be something contrary to all possible plans, and to protect nature and the environment. It is your point that many serious investors give up, and also because of corruption, above all, at local level, and there should be much improvement in this regard. So we have in the Transparency International rating where we are now giving an accent on how much has improved in this sense more transparent state and less burdened corruption while at local level some still have a major problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2572	Thank you. Next in the debate is in front of SDSS and Reformist Representative Radimir Cacic's Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2573	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Vice President, first of all, what was said and what Mrs. Ingrid Antičević agreed with, of course, is largely accurate, and in the replica, I have been listening to this story for a long time but no one has yet clearly told one great truth and this is that under Doing Business we have jumped hard, but because the criteria of methodology have changed. So let's get serious, let's stop talking nonsense. When it says so, I'm surprised the opposition doesn't answer that. ... Okay, so you wrote it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So let's be honest, we haven't moved nearly anywhere, the whole idea of this law. I have the privilege or the shame that I insisted that this law be passed, the fundamentals set up, I then asked as Vice-President of the Government for the Economy because at the time we had at least the idea that the economy should be coordinated, which seems to me to be now a little bit lost as a thought, a set-up, and Mrs. Ana Brak was the head of the task force that set up the whole concept. What was the idea? The idea was that really in one legal oatmeal, in one system that is objectively speaking not only works because of corruption, and because of incompetence, and because of ignorance, in one system where everyone is able to stop everything and no one is able to do anything. It's that story about municipalities, counties, powers, overlapping powers. So it's not so much about money, it's a lot more about whether some things can or can't be realized. In such a situation with the basic idea that a country such as Croatia is relatively easy to recognize not 50, and not even 15 or 5, 6, 7 key things that deserve to focus their strength, to stick around, to make things real, to go with... not to go, not to wait until the whole system is, I guess one day, will happen and that will happen once. We will be and Germany will only last. In the meantime, we're giving us the opportunity to solve things vigorously and quickly. That's the kind of example we had. That he's here without shame but I'm proud to say such... methods are applied on the highways. Goals, deadlines, responsible people, what needs to be changed in the legislative framework, the specific work, in technical elements. So there's a whole spectrum of things to be done. That's what you wanted to do here. Unfortunately, the law was diverged in demagogy and politics. There's nothing left of him, and it's sad, and it's not good. Does it even make sense to return it to that question? Is that everything works right, we shouldn't. The law doesn't have to, it's just a sign that things don't work, not that they work. It says Ingrid 2 billion, then 2 billion nothing, zero, 2 billion euro, zero, unfortunately zero. They write 2 billion but there's not one, not that it's not realized, it's not even started in realisation. A set of different circumstances led to this law, unfortunately, we are now changing form, so what we are changing is nothing, it's not the authority of this, it's what we are ashamed of for the fact that we don't have a vice president for the economy at all, which in itself is a due fact. Because if someone thinks that the economy ministries are functioning on their own, even in space, there are some forces that coordinate the story. And in the government, that hope that each in itself will come to a solution will not work. So something good happened, here it is, there's Mrs. Anka Dark, something good happened, the Law of Spatial Planning, the Law of Construction and the Law of Building Inspection. By the way, when I mention the inspection instead of uniting the system, we made it independent, we killed him. Because of the small, particular, political and personal interests of individual ministers and parties. It's embarrassing and sad. But here I'm talking about these three laws. These three laws, I mentioned this inspection because it's an important topic, it's going to happen once. But here when we talk about those three laws, they've changed some things to the most. No more local permits except for 5 exceptions, an important time-consuming discharge, certain topics under the new law can be raised to a national level on spatial planning, so they do not decide on a lower order which is very important and this is directly related to the subject of the Strategic Investments Act, so in that sense it makes it partly unnecessary. The most important thing in these laws is the introduction of an e-authority which the Ministry is on something that I have run in my own time as mayor in Varazdin County so the pilot project was made in the Varazdin County and it seems to me that it is already being implemented and extended, so it is very important, it is very important. Some positive shifts have been made. In this context, the need for the existence of the Strategic Investment Act is reduced. But if we do decide to have it then it has to be very short, very simple with all these stupidities of the task force, I don't know you're in charge of these commissions, come on people. It must be known here that the Vice-President of the Government for Economy has an eye on these 3 or 5 projects a day, a resolution minister a day, no clerks, no secretaries, no authority because they are such projects. This is because the projects that have to be the order of 700, 800, billion euros, that state, are these strategic projects. Oh, no, I don't know, no, that's what it says in this, I mean, that's funny. That's ridiculous. Funny and incompetent. And let's not do that, let's not embarrass the Croatian state. Everyone knows how to look for alibis for missing results. Everyone knows that, but giving a score knows a lot of them. This was supposed to be one tool to give a result. The result didn't happen. So I plead, not by entering into who it will be, however, that the government seriously considers the topic, if it wants to keep that law much more effective and to say within a very short time, which is a few strategic investments that we will discuss tomorrow, who answers for them and within which time they will be realised. Unfortunately, right now, and what little we've done is somehow not finished, not in terms of ending, not ending up, not ending up far away, but we haven't even started physically yet, but ended up in the Plomin C negotiation procedure, a billion euros, 1.5% year-on-year over 30 years of GDP growth, budget, balance of balance, not to say everything I have. The ecological quality project significantly improves, doubles the situation in the area when it comes out... Nothing, it's... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Nothing, not to mention, only four projects are strategically agreed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Okay. It wasn't made, it wasn't made, unfortunately. I don't go into reasons, it could be, it's not. One part of why he wasn't afraid of making a decision. That's the worst. What's executive power? Executive authority is a decision-making system. To make people's decisions one more time, if you're not an idiot and you make decisions and you don't care about anything, you need knowledge, knowledge gives confidence, and then you make decisions. If you have no knowledge, no confidence, pretend to be ministers, pretend to be government and the results are zero. That doesn't apply to the last government alone. This refers to the understanding of the executive authority in this country for 25 years largely. We can only hope even though we have no reason to hope that this future government will be better because so far we have no reason for the government because we have nothing in front of us. God forbid it's any different. We make people decisions. Not making decisions is the way to ruin. Decisions can sometimes be, never perfect, can be partially and guilty. But they must, but they must be corrected, they must be brought. That is why this law is important both as a message and in its application and I plead with the Government to understand and apply it in this way. I'm not going to read all this to you now, of course, but it doesn't make any sense, but it can speak for whoever it wants. From this law we had nothing, nothing was done and this law has proved to be completely useless so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2574	Thank you. A distinguished representative, Branko Bačić, appeared for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2575	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree with you completely. There was no use in this law and no harm done. Nothing that law has done in the sense of encouraging investment. As I prepared for a later discussion, I read my discussions in the first and second readings of the law, signed what I said to myself then. This is not the law for us, like this. The question is whether or not she needs a law that regulates the problem in this way. This could be prescribed by the government by its regulation by the conduct of the Deputy Prime Minister and Ministers in certain cases. What this law had was in an introductory explanation in which it wrote down 16 laws that are a real barrier to investment in Croatia, a rapid realization of investments. And you said, I agree there's Mrs. Anka Mrak Taritash with three, that is, with two laws repaired in a certain way speeded up the procedure even though there's still one I was talking about, and there's still a chance of making it simpler in that sector. But it is necessary to amend the Law on Maritime Goods, the Law on Forests, the Law on Waters, the Law on State Property Management, the Law on Tourism Land. I don't know why nothing was done on that law. These are basic laws that prevent faster investment and faster investment in Croatia. I and I suggest to the Minister and Government that instead of this change you could have freely put out of force, nothing in Croatia would have changed with the basis of the acceleration of investments. We should either go to a quality law or what I do, where I insist we enter those 15 laws that we know regulate the problem that limits the speed of investment in Croatia. These are the laws of lex specialis to be intervened on, and I agree with you the way he's besieged, which is actually one of the procedures for acting in part of the government and the resolution ministries. When a particular project comes up, it can't give birth to a good one, and that's what it is, but I'll talk about it later when I'm in an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2576	Thank you. The following came to the replica, the esteemed representative, Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2577	Thank you very much. I use the replica as a form of discussion. So, my colleague Cacic is quite right for two reasons. This is an emergency law, an emergency law, and it's against the system. The exception is even from the system, and if we had a list of strategic projects, I would always put my hand in the air. So we know what the government will be responsible for outside the system and then we'll know which man will be responsible for the system. And another reason that was to be discussed, we got on the bench of the amendment to this proposal of the Law Club of Representatives of MOST simply put, I would like to warn, so the amendment contained normative optimism where through the norm we would fight corruption, which is good, acceptable, the idea is ok. But is it possible from the constitutional point of view that we from the competition can rule out companies that one of the executives is convicted of crimes listed here? So, we introduce sanctions, criminal sanctions for firms that should compete on the exception of the Strategic Investments Act and on the European market, we will ask that from Brussels, Vienna, Bonn, Paris or someone give evidence that they have never or nowhere participated in corrupt actions. We are introducing a new rule for the single European market. I'm just warning you, I'm not against fighting corruption, but let's not be naive. There are state funds for corruption. Let's just remember the Lokid affair or some others. It wasn't private firms. I want to warn you one more time. The law is an exception from the system, it is our necessity, we make a list of projects that we will support and control from the Croatian Parliament, and I agree completely with my colleague Cacic, he has the sense of getting out of the blockades that are in countless laws. And the amendment will certainly make it difficult to realise strategic projects. I'm not against fighting, I'm against corruption. But we take care of what we want to achieve. [[Intruder Tepesh: Time.]] Thank you very much. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2578	Nothing, nothing. Thank you. Replication response esteemed representative Radimir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2579	And what my colleague Bacic and my colleague Leko said is, I don't think we know what we're talking about. Let's be honest. Some people in this House sometimes know what they're talking about not often, but it happens. So it's a lex specialis, it's a surgical knife that applies when applied if the circumstances are what they are. It should be estimated that or not, and the system as a whole needs to be cured. This amendment of MOST shows something that led to this law not being brought to life at all because there were some parties and now I'm not going to mention who and some who thought this, this, this, this, this, this. When we got to the sixth of these, we could've thrown it all in the basket. Oh, no? The police are here to chase thieves, no. Thank God, no. We have a repressive apparatus. You don't have to freak people out. Besides, this kind of thing, any idiot can eliminate it as an obstacle. Well, it's not gonna be this person. It's gonna be that person. What's the problem? It says here that the application will not be considered orderly if an interested investor has been punished somewhere. Well, it's not gonna be this one. It's gonna be that one, no. So, people, let's not fool ourselves that the state can progress by making things crazy. On the contrary, let us make them simple. And let us, of course, transfer responsibilities to those who are responsible for them. Here's the state, here's the executive power, it's at the state and state level, the government, the president, ministers have to answer for decisions on this. Here, that's all. So I agree with my colleagues and I support that way we approach this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2580	Thank you. The next call came with a distinguished representative, Ivan Shuker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2581	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Cacic, I think that when we all think clearly about these laws, they're usually the result of not our own impotences before the system fails. Because if the system works then it shouldn't in principle. But since I'm going to talk a lot about some things in an individual debate, I'd only touch one thing, and that's the State Inspectorate. When certain ministers thought they'd have the power if they had the inspection in their hands and then they all fell apart on o-ho-ho so it's sad to see what customs officers are doing today, what some others are doing, etc. Customs officers deal with tourist fees etc. But there's something else that's more tragic and nobody's talking about here and the system that doesn't work at all. So we divided the administrative state into 5 regions. We have defined five centers that do not exist under any law of the formation of the Republic of Croatia. But it was convenient for someone to say it would be in Zagreb, it would be in Osijek, it would be in Rijeka, it would be in Split, and so you were formed some areas of tax administration, so I don't know yet. Unfortunately, however, it did not work. And now we can bring in, I don't know, a law like this, and we say we should do it, say, the District Office in Osijek. And that area office isn't working. But it's not just in finance, it's in construction and in a number of others. So we've divided the state into something the state isn't divided into, I don't know what it's based on. Or it was a predecessor to something else. And that is why it is no wonder that unfortunately there are a bunch of laws like this in Croatia. And all we need to do is look at how other people are looking at us and a little bit of ground up our own ego and just put those criticisms into the law that already exists because the laws are made and then we won't need to talk about this. Because look, we passed the law, he's been in effect for 2.5 years, which investment did we make under this law? None!
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2582	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Radimir Cacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2583	As with a lot of other things, we are unfortunately still at the stage that the state has turned into a set, we are not a system, but an expensive one. The difference is, of course, here we have dots, and here we have a force that has the brains that guides it. And let's say this around these regional centers is one indicator of that. If we had a clear idea of what we wanted, where we're going, if we were in whole and deep and horizontally running the system, it would make sense or not, but someone could agree, and someone wouldn't, but we were solving things partially. And a partial solution leads to problems like this both in this law and in this. In the case of inspections, however, it is not. It's just wrong there, there's no mistake, there's only wrong. It's a guilty idea because giving powers to ministers and ministers to play the authorities through inspections opens up the area of corruption, eliminates the ability to control those same ministers from those same ministries. Because when you have an independent body, the State Inspectorate is something quite different as a whole. And when you have in every feud that everyone has their own toy, then you have a serious problem. But these are these serious topics that won't be solved from today to tomorrow, although I think it's a happy circumstance that we're slowly becoming aware of them. It is up to the future government, of course we will constructively criticise and contribute, but it is up to the future government to try to change things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2584	Next to the replica is Honorary Representative Andrija Mikulić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2585	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, and I'd like to say here we have three ministers, two former, one current economy here. So, my colleague Cacic, I thank you for your firm struggle while you were the Deputy Prime Minister and you did not allow this State Inspectorate to be torn apart because you understood what it was. The new minister says the same thing. I'm afraid Mr. Vrdoljak's Minister of Economy hasn't even asked about it. But okay, so we had one organization state administration organization, I said on several occasions what it was doing and what business descriptions were. Therefore, you said nicely the particular political interests of some individuals who thought I had a lever, so I will function with it. They brought people nowhere. Let's talk about the accommodations of those people who had 1,000 in the system? You want to talk about cars? Let's talk about 25 squares sitting in 100 squares, etc., etc. And you said this nicely, so it's not normal for you to have a minister that his inspector controls. Well, he's not a minister above the law. So it's very simple. I don't know why you don't look at the experiences of countries in an environment that is good and good. It is not far, it should sit down and go a few hundred kilometers around Croatia and see how it works. And as good or quality as that was, I'll tell you one thing, the last budget was about 120 million kuna. Do you know how much the budget inspections put in? Over a billion kuna. So much about the efficiency of the system that some deliberately diluted into six locations that there's no control system.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2586	Here's a thank you. I'm setting a break until 3:00.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2587	[[CONTINUES AFTER A MEETING AT 15.00 HOURS]] And now, on behalf of the HDZ Club, the word will be taken by distinguished representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2588	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, but unfortunately the practice is the same. After three hours of half-empty and more than an empty assembly and a topic that should be discussed in any case regardless of what contains only one technical change of law but the topic that should be discussed in this high house. When this law was passed, it was high expectations. And in my life, I usually fear laws that have bombing titles like this, but this is just more of those laws that were passed because the system didn't work. And instead of trying to build a system that works, we passed the law, so we did some more things, and we thought something would work. However, when we talk about investment and when we talk about the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, sometimes we need to listen critically to what others think of you. And Doing Business Report of the World Bank, who looks at it a little bit more analytically, may not agree with some things that we are so bad but in principle when we look at it clearly characterises what the problems of Croatian would say bureaucracy. What is it that prevents people from investing in the Republic of Croatia? So you have basic principles where someone wants to come to invest, so they're looking for political, legal and financial i.e. tax stability. Is Croatia like a country that has no land record, which is very often changing the law legally? It's not. Do you, in four years, make over 40 changes in tax laws, are you tax-stable and safe country? You're not. Because if someone invests money, then they want to have clear criteria for whether they invest again tomorrow or ultimately what the law gives them is an opportunity to take a profit and invest in something else. So unfortunately there is no such thing in Croatia. When you look at the Competitiveness Council report, you will also come up with certain knowledge that you can also look through pink glasses as much as you want, but they will not change. And when you ignore all that, then we get into position today where we are. So it is policy that needs to have strength, will and desire to implement reforms. And if politics doesn't have the strength, then we have the situation we have. So we have a law that was passed 2.5 years ago, how many investments did we have in the Republic of Croatia? Practically none. What we say is invested in Croatia would have happened without this law because nothing this law and the implementation of this law has encouraged. But that's why when we say that at this point there were only 18% of real estate owners, so land, residential buildings in the Republic of Croatia in land books that were listed through the OIB, the OIB is the only real identification sign that you can determine whose property is, it best tells you how ready we are to invest and how willing we are to offer someone something. Croatia has invested large amounts of money in spatial plans between 2005 and 2009 and there is not today a single unit of local self-government that is from the least municipality to the largest City of Zagreb that has no spatial plan. So with a spatial plan you define living conditions, you define the conditions under which you can build something, etc. So if we've brought these spatial plans to local, county and state level, then the question is, why does someone who works one let's say a normal building facility without any special conditions of protection against pollution, this one, or that one takes over a year or two to get a building permit? If the spatial plan is exactly what can be prescribed, which cannot, in which gauges, as much underground as above the ground. And that's all very well written in the Doing Business Report, and we're here by that category, ohohohoho high, i.e. Or when you look at it like this from the beginning pretty close to the end. And that's our problem. And when my colleague Cacic talked about some things today and I was getting ready to discuss this club law in fact on behalf of the club I just wanted to help the minister in a certain way to look at some things and to make a decision in principle what to do. Because if you have a 2.5-year-old law, if the whole of Europe is going in some direction and you, based on that law, practically have no investment but many investors and entrepreneurs but also through some incentive measures that have gone through the government, through this, are pushing some of their own things. But look, we around some of the crucial energy facilities in the Republic of Croatia today don't have a clear attitude to build them or we won't build them, regardless of what we think of them and of Plomin C, and of this hydropower plant, and that hydro power plant just doesn't have to get along. So someone can say it's for Plomin C, someone's gonna say it's against and it's his right. But if the government comes out with a project that's one of the most important investment projects. If the government raises the price of electricity 25% that HEP would be one of the main investors in the Republic of Croatia the generator of economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia does not happen, then the logical thing is that the Law on Strategic Investments is not needed for such matters. 'Cause if, uh... HEP, which is a state-owned company, wants to invest something, if it gets the consent of the state and the debt and all the living, so the logical thing is that all ministries and the unit of local self-government that agrees with it or disagrees to take measures to allow these papers to come out as soon as possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But that's not happening. And now I'm going back to that beginning, it's a matter of politics. And we can pass 20 more of these laws, we can call them whatever we want. But until we solve those systemic issues, which is the reform of the state administration, the abolition of bureaucratic barriers, the creation of a more favourable investment climate in the Republic of Croatia, we unfortunately will not have investments, investments will go elsewhere. We discussed mandatory pension funds here the other day, we also discussed the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute's report. Look, we have certain problems. So, on the one hand, when we talk about the competitiveness of the labour price, then we say that the labour price in Croatia is uncompetitive because of the high tax burden, although it is not a high tax burden but a burden on the contributions. So it's a high health and pension contribution is an average Croatian salary when you take total taxes, is not charged with any 8% with income tax. So there are high contributions. And now that you take as much of these contributions as you collect money, as much of these contributions actually have to pay, then you get to the deficit of 21 billion kuna. There's so much as a minus pension and health care system. And then we talk about the competitiveness of work, we're expensive, we're like this, we're like this and we have this situation. On the one hand, it burdens us with the price of work, and on the other hand it raises the deficit of the state budget, creates us and increases public debt, and the only solution for all of this is several dozen new jobs. Because you can't solve the problem of the health or pension system any other way than new employment. Because why? The state budget is burdened and leaned exclusively on consumer taxes. The budget of the units of local self-government is, in fact, your only and real income is his income from profit and income from, not income from property, but the communal fee is practically some kind of socialist... property tax. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And you, when you look at virtually no tax area you can enter to come into a position to reduce contributions but only with the creation of new jobs. And so we can spin around in circles and we can talk as much as we want. However, I think that when we talk about these topics of investment, and even when it was a debate on this law, there may have been a different view of some things, but we simply need to all look for that solution because after 4 years of this government, we are talking about the same problems that we talked about in 2007 and 2008, so that politics simply didn't do some things. And now I want to say something else here, I don't want to defend my colleagues from MOST but I was glad to listen to my colleague Ingrid Anticevic today when she explained how I couldn't stand the amendment. You have here a situation in the Parliament that is likely to enter the anals, which is when it was an amendment to elect representatives to the Croatian Parliament. Apart from all the rules, regulations, etc., it is voted. But what's the biggest tragedy is that in the 2015 Parliament MP election, we went under such a law that was voted completely against all the rules of procedure. Therefore, MOST colleagues have not made such a terrible mistake that they have tried to insert something. To say this, it is not my intention to defend them, but simply another thing in this whole thing was that we should act equally and think when we are in power and when we are in opposition because the problem is the same. So when we talk about investment, I won't say anything different today than I said when I was an opposition representative. These are the problems that if we don't help Minister Panenic and the government solve it, these are the problems that will wait for those next. And I don't think we just don't have time or rights to our children, first of all, to let four more years wait for someone else to do it. That's why Mr. Minister, this law sounds very strong, but with it we're going to make it very difficult, let's get all the institutions of this country, all the ministries and regional and local self-government to start doing what we have to do to start competing for investors to come to them and then we're going to do the right thing. The HDZ Club will support these amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2589	Thank you very much. We have three replicas. He's the first to be respected representative of Giovanni Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2590	Here's a respected colleague of Shucker you said at the outset that the system is not working, and your conclusion is very different from all those who have discussed before you what it fully agrees on, and I note this for the reason that finally the truth comes out. In recent years, there has been an incredible hack where the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have been thrown into the eyes of sand and that the leaders of the local self-government unit have all been accused and all the debates so far suggest that the state is the key, the main braker of everything. And it's a good thing we all agreed on that together. You also pointed out that the problem lies in the regulations, in administrative measures that hinder economic growth and development. Everyone from their point of view mentioned a proposal for a solution and which way we must go. Here I will be free to say that I see the solution in the catalog. In a catalogue proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Parliament and the Assembly can only change it. And why do I mention the catalog as a key solution? Because it commits independently to the relationship of forces both within the Parliament and within the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to very precisely indicate the holders, to specify the regulations that we need to change and what is key and what you have said in the end in which I fully agree. We're at the beginning of the term of office. This is the time that we all really all together, because this debate was also constructive, let's make a political turn and this is really the right time to support these projects. But to make sure that what I said is made a catalogue for transparency so that everyone knows what our strategic projects are, because we declared a strategic investment, an investment of 150 million kuna. It's a bit of a bigger gas station. [[The incursion president: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2591	The esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2592	So I'll start with what you said in the end. Someone's making an investment of two million strategic investments. If he solves his crucial problem and he opens up space for other investments. Therefore, the nominal amount does not necessarily mean that it is something strategic. Strategic is something that for one small unit of local self-government or one end means opening a window or opening... to make something. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's the key. What I said at the beginning of the system and when we talk about units of local self-government, so you have a lot of local self-government units that have made excellent use of European funds, which have used every opportunity to create something and attract an investor. However, what is a key unit of local self-government cannot change the general climate that governments in one country, which is unfortunately Croatia has a negative trend at the moment and we must agree not that because of the methodology we have progressed so much and so many places, but when we look inside at certain segments that are estimated to have progressed there. And then when we take it for granted whether we're in opposition or in power, then we'll move forward. But if we're not able to do that, then unfortunately, we're going to go back to where we are. Someone is going to rip something up here and there because we can't say that we haven't had investments in Croatia in the last seven, eight years for about 50, 60 billion. And then somebody always finds out who's up against this, but who's up against that, so give up on this, and give up on that. We were all for the LNG terminal in Krk, then suddenly they appear who are against this and against that. We just have to decide what we want to do. We can't live on tourism. We also need to see strategically, if we're going to talk about agriculture, so it can't happen now that 60 or 50% of the pigs from Croatia are driving to the slaughter in Hungary.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2593	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2594	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Shucker, I agree with you that we should have the same same debate when the opposition or ruling representative is on this particular law and I would say that, in my view, he solves everything he planned, all those investments that were expected to be accelerated by his adoption, and they didn't come to terms with the same attitude today, and that's the same attitude that we don't need in this form. It cannot solve anything important unless the basic laws that slow down, disable or represent in a certain way obstacles to faster implementation of the projects themselves are changed. But what we were saying then and what I want to point out now is if it is going to change the law, it is that I do not accept the fact that this new law should reduce the powers of the unit of local self-government. In fact, this law was on the trail of a significant reduction in the powers of local self-government units, and this was precisely in the part where the European Charter gave local self-government units enormous powers in the section relating to spatial planning and construction in space located in the area of a single unit of local self-government. Therefore, a law that goes towards speeding up investments should not mean reducing the powers of units of local self-government or county, or cities or municipalities. In this regard, this law has led to the fact that certain investors do not need detailed urban plans, that they do not need urban planning, which I believe was a non-sensus why we, you know it well, are opposed and it would not be good for this new law to be planned to reach and the powers and independence of the units of local and regional self-government to change this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2595	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2596	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Bačić, units of local self-government and state must be partners, not that someone or something is in charge. And if we go into the system that because we want to do something, so there's some local leader out there that's gonna bother us, we need to eliminate it, then we're doing the wrong thing. Then we go crazy with the system, and when we go crazy with the system, we end up without the law. And that's the key problem. So we have to make a system that works, because if one unit of local self-government in its spatial documentation wrote and adopted that in its area it can have it, that, all of it, all of it, from exploiting natural resources to certain industrial plants, then we stick to that spatial plan. At the same time if the local self-government unit doesn't want to know why someone would impose it on her. So now take the case of these regional dumps. So, Zagreb County made all the documents, all the environmental impact studies for itself, actually units of local self-government in its area, that deal that they had with one part of the city of Zagreb around the ashes, that eventually it would turn out when it was almost someone came and remembered that two other surrounding counties there should bring their waste. So the logical thing is that the inhabitants of Zagreb County are going to rebel, and it's practically one completed project in those 20 projects that should be financed from EU funds just stopped and the question is when will be launched. It's the best thing that only shows us things that can't happen. If one unit of local self-government and finally state-level, a decision has been made where these centres will be. And if all research has been conducted, all environmental impact assessments and if it is said that it will be there that the local population has agreed then who has the right to change and practically stop the investment of a few dozen million euros? It's a typical example of what can't happen. And finally, through such an example, you send a negative message to anyone who wants to come and invest.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2597	Thank you very much. And the next replica of the distinguished representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2598	Thank you very much. Mr. Shuker, in your debate, I've had a few issues in my ear that I don't agree with, and I don't think we should say them lightly here. You said first, four years ago, and now the same reason is to say the same thing. It can be because you're politically involved in certain things, but as far as the facts are concerned, that's not the case. Because when you look at it 4 years ago we had a billion euros in foreign investment in Croatia, in 2014, we ended up with 4 or something over 3 billion euros. So some things are still moving. Another thing that got into my ear, and this means a little bit amazing that you think that this law isn't helping or that it shouldn't be at all, that we're only doing one form now that after 3.4 months, you should make a different concept or something that isn't defined by this law as it is. But look at how many projects are awaiting a session of this committee that is changing today, 47. So, is it a shame to throw all these projects into the water now and is it essentially a commission work that was worthless in the previous period if we have at this point 47 valuable projects, some valuable and over 100 million kunas that are in the realization phase? Then why are you declaring such a concept essentially irrelevant and unnecessary? I would exactly the opposite of you, and I expect my fellow Minister of Economy to advocate such an approach because it obviously gives certain results. And they are neither based on any corrected estimates of GDP growth nor an assessment of investment growth. Obviously, we need this law and that it will be very, very necessary in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2599	Thank you. The esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2600	My colleague Maras, you have unfortunately come to a third of my debate and, of course, as usual, you agree with the story of how it suits you. First, these investments in Croatia need to be seen. A bunch of them would've happened without this law, 99%. The second thing, if that's true, is everything you said that you didn't push those investments a year ago when the whole of Europe on a jet drive went forward, if that's all true what you said. The second thing, remember the projects you ran at the beginning of the term of office that carriers will be large public state-owned companies. Well, after all, it's kind of a list of strategic investments. What happened to that? Nothing! So these are projects to take all the political options now, to put them on the table in 90% of the projects we'll agree on. There's nothing at all controversial about it. But if you have a system that works and that's the part that you didn't hear at first, then all this together doesn't need. Because if the system works he'll simply do what needs to be done to make an investment happen. But if the system doesn't work, and it obviously doesn't work, then you have to invent the law, you have to determine a tourist guide who will lead certain investors through certain bureaucratic institutions so that they don't screw them up in one way or another. That's your retirement case now. 200 and another thousand pensioners received a call to report to the IRS. Why? Well, because the system doesn't work. Because that the system works, that we've come to the fact that these pensioners don't have to pay pension taxes because somebody made them go out long ago if they wanted to survive, they wouldn't have this all together. But no, the system doesn't work, there's been a whole mess in front of people, and then we're going to say we should now pass a law, let's say for foreign pensions that doesn't happen. It's not true, there's a system that needs to be put in place to eliminate it, nothing else. So no one is against investment or making investment easier, but only these laws are the result of system failure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2601	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Croatian Labourers' Club of Representatives, the following will take the word of the distinguished representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2602	I would like to thank Mr. President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Let's get back to this law. So we have before us a law that has four new articles. The only thing we're changing in here is we're changing two things. So the words of the decision to put out of force are replaced by the words of the decision to repeal and the purely technical change of the law where we appoint the Vice President and change the part, because unfortunately despite the fact that we have been saying that we will deal with the development of the economy in Croatia, we do not have a vice president for the economy, so we are changing that law. And that's all the truth about this law. We can now discuss investments whether the laws are good, whether the laws are bad but if we have listened to them all the time today and I sincerely hope that he is the prime minister and that the other ministers have listened to this debate today because we see that we have solutions and that we have solutions from the ruling ones. So they know everything right and what to do and I sincerely hope it's someone in the government other than you ministers who sit here heard and that it will be very, very soon resolved. So we're all talking about the law being wrong. The law was passed in 2013 and there were people sitting in these Assembly benches who are now sitting. No one has given an amendment to that law, as an opposition, from 2013 to 2013, to call on this law to be corrected. So we didn't react, we didn't influence, and now it turns out we knew it wasn't good. And then we say the same thing when we're in opposition and we're in power, we do the same thing when we're in opposition and we're in power. It's not true, if we don't act and we know there's a problem, then we're as guilty as the ones who did something. My opinion and I have a right to it. The second thing I see here is that we don't change anything, so now it turns out that we know what the law should look like, that we know how investment should be implemented in Croatia, but these amendments to the laws don't change it again. So it's all the same. With this law, we only choose the Deputy Prime Minister whom the Government appoints as a committee or body that assesses the proposals of strategic projects and proposes to the central authority of the state administration responsible for the economy to make decisions on the inclusion of each individual project on the list of strategic projects. So we don't change anything about these amendments to the law and that's what's confusing. I suppose he's confusing the citizens, too. If we're saying that something's wrong all the time and something's been wrong since 2013 and we're coming into the parliamentary procedure with these amendments to the Strategic Investments Act, we realize that everything that's been wrong so far, but we're still leaving it to work and it's working the same way, then something really isn't right. I expected if we wanted to develop an economy, if we wanted these strategic investments indeed three, four, to determine three, four strategic investments that matter to us and we would have fun with them that if that law were so bad, this law would simply end it. But we are now allowing this law to continue to receive, as so far, the proposals of strategic investments and to propose them to the restoring ministry, as so far. This committee shall also decide on the establishment of an operational group for the preparation and implementation of each individual project and shall appoint operational group leaders for each individual project. It hasn't changed in the law, so it stays the same. The Commission proposes to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to make a decision on the declaration of a strategic project to monitor the implementation of strategic projects, proposes to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to make decisions to repeal the decision to declare a strategic project and proposes to delete the project from the list of strategic projects. When we take all this into account, and after all that we have heard today, especially from the rulings, we can conclude that this commission is necessary and urgent only because of the decision to delete projects from the list of strategic projects. Is that true? You ministers in your opening presentation mentioned 6+6 projects and I would still like to hear what your colleagues have said about how important these projects are now, whether these projects will continue to be effective and implemented as strategic projects, or if that commission will simply say all these projects that have been so far do nothing and we will now delete them because by law we have the right to do so. I expected, indeed, to have expected, after the HDZ economic programme, and after all those strong negotiations and pages that we negotiated with the Most, about the promise to take care of the development of the economy and to strengthen the economy in Croatia, that this change of law will be on this track and that this law will have a lot more articles and that these articles will be improved by what we all hear today is wrong. That didn't happen. So we still have the same law that's wrong, and in the same way, we're going to spend everything we've been through so far that we're saying is not good. The other thing I ask you for, and it seems to have been very important to you, I'm not legal, so please explain it to me, what is the difference from the fundamental economic aspect between putting out of force and repealing? You obviously considered this very important because here in these three articles you devoted two articles to it. If we put something out of force, it would mean that the new government is not in agreement with any decisions made by the former government and some projects simply do not want to support it as strategic. And that's okay, but the annulment does that mean that all legal effects adopted on strategic investment are annulled. Because if all the legal effects are repealed does this mean a stricter attitude towards investment that will have to return or compensate for the costs of all the benefits from the country's strategic project because of the annulment itself? Because some benefits, based on this strategic project, have become from speed to commission, to people who have been available for 24 hours to investors and so on. I think it all cost something even though you now decide certain projects simply to declare I don't know which word you would use, but here they're not good, they're bad, they're nothing, those who've been working under this law for two years on strategic projects didn't understand anything, if it's meant to be done that way, then I think it's your duty to make it clear from these projects that are now what is wrong with them and that you're eventually thinking of moving or erasing, or to be more precise. This kind of debate I think is turning us back and certainly won't advance us and I don't think that everyone in this House, regardless of which side of the assembly we're sitting on, is so that the investments happen, that as much as possible, and that thanks to these investments, we can count on an increased number of jobs, exactly what our colleague Schuker was stressing. Some of these strategic investments that are listed have not planned any new jobs, so I will tell you specifically about the Plomin thermal power plant there is not one new job planned but well, it is important as a strategic investment because of something else. But I think what my colleague Sponza said is a register of good things, whether the government, or you as minister, will set 3.4 priorities for us to say this in Croatia at this time, we have rules and conditions for these strategic investments, laws that these strategic investments must follow and now we are looking for foreign investors. If we do not have this, it will continue to be based on this law which you have not changed in anything, or people reporting with certain investments, to ask you to declare them strategic and to repeat the whole cycle again. We don't have time, we just don't have time anymore. And what little we have here seems to be spending here unproductively, not rationally, and I think it's bad for all of us no matter what side of the assembly we're sitting on. The other thing that I think we're wrong is that we've given great attention to big investments and we're not thinking about those small investments, but these small investments for craftsmen and entrepreneurs are very big investments and every new job, whether it comes from a small investor, medium, large, domestic or foreign, I think it's equally important and equally important to us at this point. Minister, I'm asking you in your final address to try to answer this question because I don't know about that, so I'd like to hear it from you, your explanation. And I sincerely hope that this law or change it to be better because you and your partners agreed that it wasn't right as soon as possible in the parliamentary procedure so that we wouldn't say again for four years that we had something that was wrong for four years but we were all aware that it wasn't right but we were all also lazy that what was wrong in any way was changing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2603	Thank you. We have a few replicas. He's the first of his distinguished MPs, Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2604	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Tyrelli, we really need investment, investment, investors, and you proved it when you mentioned here that in the past terms you've been in, you've been in opposition. So it's really true that he's in the past government then, since you were on the list with, in the coalition, i.e. in the election coalition itself with lists that were in power for four years. It means that such a cycle of investment is launched in Croatia that now Minister Panenic should sign the drilling of the hydrocarbon exploration Adriatic, immediately at the same time, and the former minister, for example. He didn't sign it. So we should have all those stores that were made in the same hour signed until 15 days ago, no one signed. And just so you know, it doesn't waste government time in a nutshell. The government is 25 days ago, the prime minister here means elected members of the government. So the government is doing its job, here's the man who's now the minister of the economy. Support what he proposes in the next period, only people are named, so members of his cabinet and assistants. Therefore, there will be investment, there will be investments but certainly for the benefit of the Croatian man and only the protection of natural resources. So it's exclusive. Some interests may not have to be signed before because something does not have to be good for Croatia if it threatens the Adriatic Sea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2605	The distinguished representative Nancy Tyrelli will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2606	Thank you, Mr. President, and I thank you too, colleague Bulj, for the replica. I think we understood very well what I was asking. When you are like MOST and as a political party in Parliament in 4 years, you give as many bill proposals as the Labourists gave in the last term, I will congratulate you first and say good-bye. So much for amending and proposing laws. I didn't ask the minister for anything other than to answer my questions that these strategic investments at this point are not good for him. I believe that in these 20 days, despite everything, he has managed to look at who they are and that precisely because of the urgency of passing this law and the arguments that it says that the commission has to meet to keep something going, I have asked a very simple question. Do investment projects stay or will this new commission wipe them out, declare them bad? And if that happens, I think the minister has an obligation to tell us all why something is good or not good. Because if we don't start talking and talk transparently, which is why we end something or we don't end it, then we keep repeating and making the same mistakes. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2607	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Giovanni Sponze.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2608	Dear colleagues, you mentioned in your discussion the project to the Plomin thermal power plant. Both you and I come from the same constituency but now as elected representatives of this assembly it is our duty to consider the energy independence of the Republic of Croatia but also to protect the standard of citizens in our constituency. Credibility is something that is a value of politics. And I'm glad that both you and me and yesterday and today are in the same position that the Plomin thermal power plant on coal as energy is not acceptable. Today during the debate, specifically from Mr. Cacic, we had the opportunity to hear that the thermal power plant Plomin on coal should continue to push forward, and in fact there is a very important thing that the spatial plan of the Istrian County determined the thermopower plant Plomin on gas. If, by any chance, you would accept what I said earlier, that after the latter is forced to do something, that things are broken by the strength of the muscles without respecting what is in the county spatial plan, without respecting the County Assembly, all those where you are sitting, where you represent all the citizens and citizens in Istria, then we are moving into a very dangerous process, which is will.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2609	Thank you very much. The distinguished representative, Nancy Tyrelli, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2610	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, fellow Sponza, for the replica. Although we agree always and remain firmly on the same track that we agree with the strategic project of the thermal power plant because of energy independence, we also insist all the time on respecting the spatial plan of the Istrian County, but also on the decisions of the County Assembly, which was not the case. And one of the reasons why I'm asking the minister to say which are the strategic projects that will remain, and which will be lost is that Plomina C thermal power plant. Because one of the reasons I'm going to say is that local self-government and spatial plans of the county, cities and municipalities will depend on what kind of response I get from the minister. So, just on the trail of what you said in the replica, if we don't respect some things, then we can talk about the will that's not good anyway. And when I ask that I don't ask my answers for myself, I ask, I ask, I ask the question precisely because of citizens who also deserve to get some answers. And if we talk only in principle that some investments are important to us, and that when we look at strategic projects, we don't have a projection of new jobs or how much such investment will eventually create new jobs, we're just talking about millions of euros and we're doing a calculation of how good or bad a million-euro investment is being invested, and we're not thinking about the job and the jobs that this investment is going to bring. I think we're doing the wrong thing and the long-term bad thing. What we need now is jobs and the improvement of our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2611	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2612	Thank you very much, Mrs. Tyrelli. In your debate, I think, and you have well concluded that, in essence, not with the particular skeptic of HDZ colleagues, which Mr. Schuker has articulated, however, will not give up on this law, given that the composition of the commission is changing, i.e. I believe that the people and, in particular, the Minister of Economy Panenić are what is here and in the media has been given the satisfaction of the information they have received from the people of ZAIK or about the projects that are going and that there is no reason for something that works to be abolished. So it might be good what on this side is here is the government's duty to have a colleague from MOST, not HDZ, because they would probably go immediately with the abolition of the whole law and the return of the story at the beginning, and this way I believe that my colleague Panenic will use the positive experience that this law has passed, and they are certainly in the previous period and certain things have been corrected, we were aware in the first phase of the law that he may be too rigid and too demanding from investors and he has been changing since 2014 and therefore led to these 47 projects that are now on the table that have not accumulated from all over Europe, but have accumulated from certain EU countries and are carrying more than a billion kuna of investments. Most of course in hotels and in production, which is also very important for the Republic of Croatia, and many things have improved in the business itself, the issue of permits and papers. Here is counterpart Anka Mrak Taritas, who has made a major step in issuing building permits, so let's say here's a mayor of Virovitica, who from the HDZ ranks boasts that licenses are now issued in two days. So, some things have been done, and it is well said by this fellow Panenic minister that, for example, a colleague such as Mr. Shuker would probably put the law out of force right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2613	The next one, on behalf of the HSS Representatives' Club, HDZ, HDS, will be spoken by the distinguished representative Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2614	Thank you very much, Mr. President, with your co-workers, Mr. Minister of Economy, Mr. Panenic, dear colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives, I welcome you all together on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club and the Croatian HDS. I am pleased that here it is, today the proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Strategic Investments and Projects of the Republic of Croatia is being discussed with the final draft of the law. We welcome this initiative to refer this law and the next law on state property management, because finally here is our initiative of the Croatian Peasant Party and partners to discuss in the Croatian Parliament the laws that will start Croatia and create conditions for the development of the economy and the creation of new jobs, and to forget those topics that were last week, but to look back and to create policies that will create economic growth and development and new jobs in the Republic of Croatia. Next, this morning on the Legislative Committee when we discussed these drafts of the law, what made me personally happy, that although the motioner failed to edit all the articles to which the changes were addressed and that we were able to reach a unanimous decision to refer this law to the procedure and to bring this amendment to the Croatian Parliament because it was finally all our common goal of launching an investment cycle in the Republic of Croatia. And that is what makes me happy and I would like that practice to be and in the future and we will try here we from the Croatian Peasant Party thus contribute to the quality of the acts that are being adopted here. Of course, this law has repercusions to all units of local self-government, to all craftsmen and entrepreneurs, to all of us who, in a certain way, want to sucreate policies and want to create conditions for the development of the economy. In the very adoption of the law and why this law was adopted at all, it was clear that there was a fall in economic activity, that there were over 160 thousand unemployed in the Republic of Croatia and that in my Slavonia there was more than 30% of the unemployed from which I came and that something had to be launched to attract investment and to start this investment cycle. Did the law in its particulars strike a point, could everything be prejudged as to what it would produce in practice? Of course not, and let's see today from all of this, from all the exposures and replicas that there are certain discrepancies, disagreements, but I think the law was positively passed to run an investment cycle. Because the general climate among investors, with the International Community, was that there was one legal uncertainty in Croatia because of the major changes in the law, because of one practice that the signed contracts were not respected, that it was necessary and settled through the Strategic Investments Act. We as the Croatian Peasant Party were also against the adoption of this law because we felt that the strategic investment itself through energy, infrastructure, railways and others cannot multiply what we want, which is to help small craftsmen, entrepreneurs, family agricultural economies to be the bearers of economic development and to create new jobs. It's going to go back to how we like to say it to the big ones and create a prerequisite for the big ones to develop. Of course we are not against major investments and we want big investments to happen to Croatia and our region, Slavonia and Baranja, but unfortunately we are witnessing that the least investment was right in Slavonia and Baranja. So here we are also calling on the Minister of Economy and all the members of the Government and us to contribute to the investment happening in both Slavonia and Baranja. We also have bright examples because there have often been stories and replicas here that the local community, through the lack of spatial plans, has sometimes gone counter-investment and investors through the lack of other acts. We have bright examples here are the industrial park Nova Gradiška, air conditioning, Atlantic Group in Slavonski Brod, Boxmark and not to list any further. So even in small areas, quality preconditions can be created for the development of the economy and for the creation of new jobs. Unfortunately, the state authorities were on a certain and impediment to economic development and prevented investment. So here we are in the port of Slavonski Brod, witnessing that a large investment by a private investor has stalled, which meant a lot to the port of Slavonski Brod, for the town of Slavonski Brod, for a wider area due to disagreement of two, three state bodies. And even the investor had to reach out to the trial that the investment hasn't started yet. And I think that in these segments this law makes sense and that this law must also sanction and help investors to get their investment started. Because these amendments to the law also stand in that section if the investor does not contribute within a certain legal time limit to the acts necessary for the strategic investment to start that it will be considered as deleted or annulled in any way. But I think the state authorities have to help such an investor not to let that happen if he doesn't have time within the legal time limit to get to the building permit, the use of the permits and all that is necessary for the investment to go. That's why I think we all need to support such investments and laws together and finally change something. Of course, we from the Croatian Peasants' Party are also asking to get an insight into what 47 projects are said to be on hold here and the committee's meeting to start and to be seen about which projects they are and why they are declared strategic, how many of them are from Slavonia and Baranja and what we as a Croatian Parliament can contribute to helping these investments to happen. Of course, it is my special desire to give the young people of my region, from the region of Slavonia and Baranja a chance to get jobs, to finally start something. Because, unfortunately, in Slavonia and Baranja, only the number of agencies to intervene in the employment of the European Union and beyond is growing, the number of transportation units of bus companies that drive young people from Slavonia and Baranja. We from the Croatian Peasant Party will support this Proposal for a Law amending the Strategic Investment Act with a desire to move forward as soon as possible. So here's what I suggest is that we wait not for 30 days, but for the first next session, the government to start considering and appoint members of the commission and start considering these strategic projects and to help investors in their investments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2615	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST, the next one will speak to the distinguished representative, Maro Kristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2616	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Minister. First of all, I would like to say that MOST of Independent Lists will support this cosmetic change to the Law on Strategic Investment Projects solely so that they do not stand in the way of the work of the Commission and the new Government. However, I must say that we support such a proposal to amend and supplement the Strategic Investment Projects Act solely for the reason that you ministers have announced a very recent amendment to this law. Let me say a few words about our amendment which we will withdraw precisely for the reasons why amendments and additions to this law have been announced. However, I would like to say that our amendment was fully in line with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament and that it does not contain any discriminatory provisions on any group of investors. In fact, in all the countries in the environment that have a stable investment framework that is consistent and which creates a positive investment environment, such provisions have been incorporated, so I have to say that when we talk about investors, investors can be both legal and natural persons. As there is a responsibility of natural persons, there is both criminal responsibility and legal personality. Here we have an example in close proximity, an example of Alstom who was convicted of corruption and that there was this provision in this law he could not be part of a consortium that is a strategic partner for Plomin C. Now let me also say a few sentences regarding the law itself which, in my opinion, is one of the laws that broke the Constitution in more than 4 to 5 articles. Such a law, which is completely pausal, has opened the space actually to speculators and developers who have appeared specifically let's say we have such a case with us in Dubrovnik in Dubrovnik-Neretva County. In fact, this law is a substitute of the Law on Golf Courses that has been abolished and space has opened for the development of a project on the Srda plateau that rests on illegal changes to the spatial plan. As you know, this project is developing at a range of 310 thousand hectares although there is a high court ruling that the Commissioner then illegally amended the spatial plan that it was not in his power and that the project can only be revived on its natural gauges of 100 hectares. Today we have a situation that a government that is no longer the Government of the Republic of Croatia has issued building permits on that plateau, although we all know that this project does not have a foothold in the law. There are a whole series of articles that are contrary to the Constitution and there are a whole series of provisions of this law that completely exclude the local community in decision-making processes. So I can only mention some to see how discriminatory it is with regard to the rights of local and regional self-government as well as the rights of investors. This is a legal framework that does not actually serve investors or Croatian citizens. There are a whole series of such provisions, let's say one of the provisions is that permits are issued within 15 days and that officials who do not issue a licence will be punished within 15 days. Tell me, what about those investors and citizens who don't fall under this law, who've been waiting for licenses for a year or two? Who's asking them anything? Environmental impact studies are hardly mentioned in such projects, which are millions of values for which it is almost certain to cause major environmental impacts. The public debate carried out in this law was held beyond all conventions and beyond all laws and European regulations. It lasted only 8 days and made it impossible for any of those who wanted to participate in the process of the debate and offered constructive proposals practically none of them could put together their proposals within such a time. So here is the minister I believe that these are sufficient reasons for all of us to think and participate in the process of passing a new law which will indeed offer a consistent legal framework that will offer legal certainty to all investors who will know how to divide those who are speculators and developers from those who will actually bring economic growth and development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2617	Thank you very much. There is a distinguished representative of Gordan Maras on your presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2618	Thank you very much. Mr. Kristic, when you say that cosmetic changes are then you are expected to say and expect that there will be a change of law in the near term, then at least a little in the debate you should say what is wrong with it, which you would change in MOST, which the minister may think because it is the same from your party about it. So these things are very important that we know about future and debates and that we get to know each other in some way with your views because it's just not good to say here's the cosmetic change, so we're going to support us. Here's Mr. Schucker clearly said, he said from the beginning that this was wrong, that it should be lifted that these 47 projects don't mean anything, that a billion euros is the same as 3.5 billion euros in 2011-2014. So, you need a little bit of me saying I'd give both explanations and other things to make people familiar with your attitudes. As far as corruption is concerned, you have given one company that would exempt not only one company but many world corporations. Alstom had not the only problem with corruption, he had both Siemens and Daimler and many companies not to list now which in their countries or countries where they had done business because of some corrupt behaviour in the past have agreed with these countries or in Germany with their investigative authorities etc. But they keep doing business. So you won't say that, for example, Daimler now decides to do something in Croatia that we should tell me no and you won't be on the list of strategic projects because once someone in your history had a certain corrupt shop. So, if these companies do business, if they accept the business standards that rule in Croatia, means that they do not support corruption, I see no reason for them to be issued solutions to have strategic investor status and to continue working in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2619	Thank you. The esteemed representative Maro Kristic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2620	The fact is that the concerned, respected colleague Maras, I apologize, the fact is that the law in question has not received almost any effect. Except that we have a base of strategic investment projects almost no project is in almost no phase of realization or is expected to have some kind of rapid realization. I didn't want to baffle investors, certainly there are those among them who deserve trust. I mentioned an investor in Dubrovnik that we all know very well about, which even the referendum was held on, you know how many citizens said not at that referendum, as far as they said, I believe that today is reflecting such a referendum that 90% of Dubrovnik citizens would say not to such a project. I think that we have been concrete, we have proposed an amendment in relation to the opportunities allowed by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, at this point it could only include protection from the possibility that those who are prone to corrupt actions might get the status of strategic investment projects and, as such, benefit from those benefits. I have not referred to those who do not have such qualifications, I am sure there are many good projects to be supported, but I believe that you agree that this law needs a whole series of radical changes, not only those cosmetics so that the local community will also be a partner in the development of such projects, because I am almost sure that there is no support for the local community that no investor will realise the project, and even if it does not stay there for long.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2621	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Representatives' Club, the word will now be taken by the honourable representative Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2622	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers, as it is a technical amendment, the correction of the law of the HNS Club will support this bill, although there is a certain uncertainty among us, no sequence before these changes may have been the Law on Government or certain corrections within the very organisation of the Government itself. In this work we see nothing controversial, however, as my predecessors spoke on behalf of my colleagues and colleagues on behalf of the clubs, I consider it appropriate and certain views based on these discussions and on behalf of the HNS Club to be a sign. In fact, there was a denial of this law, a question of why it was generally needed, but let us not forget some things, they can agree on the principle of whether he, this is the topic we can discuss, and it is likely that it will be as announced by the series of amendments to that law to which he has received and what results. The law is in force for about two years, and how realistic it was to expect, given the law itself, to the text of the law, what it regulates to happen in these two years, an investment boom. In this regard, I will name it a favourable business environment, which is a key factor in whether an investor will invest, whether in local, regional or whether at the level of the entire region of the Republic of Croatia, someone will invest. This law has no excessive impact on a favourable business environment, it is only one segment. A favourable business environment is much wider, much more and much more complex. Why is this law even passed? So let's just look at this part in Article 8 of the Commission except for the Deputy Prime Minister then in charge of the economy, he will now be the vice-president appointed by the Government. I would just like to mention, so the previous government considered investments, improving the investment environment or a favourable business environment very important for the development of the Republic of Croatia. In this regard, I will not say that this government is marginalising because, according to statements, I also think that both these days and Prime Minister Oreskovic noted the need to boost investment. But we now have two vice-presidents of the government will they physically be able to deal with this area as well? It's a question we have a dilemma. Or maybe I'll say amendments to the Government Act and that things will be corrected to strengthen it. So Article 5(8), four permanent members of the commission are the heads of the central government, meaning the ministers responsible for construction, spatial planning, the state administration responsible for the judiciary, means the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Environment and Nature and the head of the body responsible for the management of state property. That's the essence of this law. In some ways, they will try to respond to those colleagues who have minorized this law to that level that it is completely unnecessary. I agree with all of you that we may be in a certain part of the regulation that we should deregulation, paraphrasing means simplifying the procedure. Why is this law even passed? So I think it was as simple as it was complex, and colleagues who were in the past meeting remember the debate, it was easier to pass this law lex specialis and in some way avoid the changes of ten, fifteen, sixteen laws that tangled these areas especially from these key resolutions of these ministries which are members of this committee. What you would also like to say was the mentions of what investments are? According to available statistics, the three projects declared from the strategic project list are in the realisation phase. Speedy, so somewhere around 600 million kuna investments. Strategic investment projects of the Republic of Croatia that we read about from the media these days are two. The Plomin C thermal power plant reconstructing whether it will be, whether it won't be. 6.2 billion kuna. The LNG terminal is also being set, questionable. One not so much, but also valuable, extremely important for the entire northwestern Republic of Croatia project Regional Waste Management Centre. We were listening to the minister that he questioned the Regional Waste Management Centre. I've been a shareholder since 2003, and then an institution was founded, and so on. etc. and all the leaders of local self-government and regionals in that area were eager to see this precisely to be realized and I think it's almost in the final stage and now it's being questioned. The value of the estimate is 760 million kuna. This project is not as important as the financial amount of the benefit it will bring. Where's the junk? It is not clear to me now whether the project is not sustainable, or economically unsustainable, whether I do not know what reason it is to question whether the technology, whether the equipment or the supplier of the equipment might be wrong. Each of us is for new technologies, for cheaper technologies. But I hope we get answers to that question too. So they can't agree, so these are some of the most significant projects the state has declared, or the Committee on Strategic Projects. Two, four, five how many private projects I have that have been declared strategic. It's about two and a half billion kuna. I'll quote what the Prime Minister said, simplify the procedure. That's what we all agree. There will be maximum support for all clubs. Furthermore, all these projects from LNG, etc. They have been assessed by the European Commission as strategic not only for the Republic of Croatia, but also for Europe. We question them. Furthermore, the prime minister said investments in energy and tourism should be increased. Why am I saying that? I say this simply because certain clubs now question the ministers of energy strategic projects, and also mostly private projects in tourism whether they should be strategic or not. When we spoke both fellow Shuker and predecessors need structural reforms, yes. Yeah, and this law. Whatever changes are better done to simplify the procedure. I always say there's room for improvement to how much. I hope that very soon the minister will give us a proposal to amend and supplement, so we'll see. However, without structural reforms, I agree. I'm going back to a favourable business environment. My colleagues and colleagues, don't take this as just a promotion. In 2012, my city had the opportunity to participate in a project funded by the German government, BFC certificate, bussiness friendly environment. We got it. Out of 5 cities in Croatia, Bjelovar and Ivanec received 2013. Now we're in process after two years of recertification. Why am I saying that? No ministry of ours and the state of Croatia as a whole would receive a certificate to enter this certification process. It's very simple. Croatia has no development strategy. There are certain sectoral strategies, I absolutely agree and we brought them in last term and there were certain strategies from both the previous and the sixth term, the seventh. However, the general strategies that the vast majority of local self-government has were mentioned on several occasions and in a positive and negative context it is unacceptable. Do we know, there's been mentioned whether the golf course on Srda, whether the Plomin C thermal power plant, whether LNG. My colleagues and colleagues, we must determine what we want, what our goals are, what our vision of Croatia's development is. At that time, this law would not be the subject of debate and would not be as much of an interest as it is now, although I am talking about technical change but as always good practice in the Parliament and I think it is necessary for the new minister to mention it in a slightly wider context a favourable business environment. So I think this law is necessary, it's good to have it passed. I also agree with the Ministers that you will have partners at the HNS Club on this amendment to the law. We'll support every improvement, but colleagues and colleagues, and I agree with my colleague Shucker without reform. But why is this law still necessary? Because my colleague Schuker, even more than I and anyone else here, has senior colleagues, knows that the reforms are processes that last, not one of our mandates for a minimum of two mandates to implement structural reforms than anything mentioned. But it's important to start them. And that's why this law is necessary. Simple math is better to bring. It was an intensities and simply the need of the former government to pass one such law. Better one lex specialis than 15, 16 law changes, non-compliance. So I'm saying I can't agree with those colleagues and colleagues who discussed and denied certain things. Let's make a deal, discuss the lead and intensities of the law, let's discuss investments, let's discuss what we need to do here in the Parliament to fix a favourable business environment, to make it better. And all with the goal of making our citizens better in the Republic of Croatia, what is the intensity and why we are here. Once again, the HNS club will support these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2623	Thank you very much. Your discussion has caused several replicas. She's the first one to represent Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2624	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Batinić and after yours, but also after the debate of all clubs, I think it is crucial that the minister is now determined according to the law after the debate of the clubs. Is this law necessary for Croatia? If it is necessary to change it absolutely necessary to improve all the laws, the situation is not the same as it was a year ago or 3 or before 7 but it is important to hear it here in the Croatian Parliament because I am genuinely concerned about the discussion of the HDZ Club in a way that this is unnecessary, that it only bothers, that the units of local self-government interfere and that in some way this law should be removed from force as soon as possible. I would like a clear determination here and the minister that he makes it very clear about this speaker because it is essentially the main debate here today, not this cosmetic I would say human change in the commission. So, a very clear position of the Minister of Economy in the Government of the Republic of Croatia whether this law in his opinion and in this experience it has now been for a month, and it is not little, he consulted both his associates and his agency and all, whether this law should remain, whether it should be promoted or not, in 3 months we will put him out of force. And another thing that's very important here is that, once again I would have warned my colleagues from MOST, and you were partly in the debate and you said, so about these generalizations and companies that in one part of their history had excesses that have many world corporations. Imagine the situation to apply this rule to political practice so tomorrow in the Law on Elections of Croatian MPs or to write that the party cannot run for a verdict on corruption. Will you support that? If you're going to support it then it's consistent. Then let's do it in the Law of Elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2625	Thank you very much. Your replica, of course, I ask you first not to communicate with each other that way. Second, your replica
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2626	But I didn't, I had a word and Mr. Shucker
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2627	No, you didn't have a word because you were out of time, so I warned you about it. And your replica, of course, wasn't directed at all by fellow Batinić, he will probably respond to it even though you have actually sent your replica to the Minister and colleagues from MOST. But fellow Batinic will say something about it, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2628	Thank you very much. Well, I did realize, after all, that my colleague, Maras, was giving me a line. Perhaps for the reason he expected me to ask here publicly about the minister's pay phone what he thinks about the law? In fact, that is what I wanted, and I expect from the minister, but I did not ask that question from my colleague Maras simply for reasons because, in some ways, my colleagues from the Most when they withdrew their amendment and when the minister then announced that there would be amendments and amendments to the laws of certain corrections we expect and we hope that it would be an improvement that was actually confirmed for me by Mr. Minister that he was adopting this law. So here's what I didn't feel the need for my colleague Maras to publicly call the minister and ask him if he supported the law. I think I got the answer. I hope that the minister, as well as the practice at the end of the debate, may come forward and we also expect him to confirm it and say it, although I know he will not be able to tell if it will be 15 in a month but in a shorter period with a basic goal of making the investment as much in Croatia as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2629	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2630	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Batinic, I understand your need to defend the law proposed by the past government to the Croatian Parliament. I'm not even for this law now. There's no harm in it, but no harm in it. Therefore, nothing in this law has helped create an additional investment climate in Croatia that would boost its implementation of numerous projects. You said you were a supporter to pass such a law that would allow faster investment, better than to change lex specialis laws that define a particular area and which, when so many 15, 16 laws change are generally contradictory to each other. That's where I absolutely disagree with you. I am just the other way around, I am a supporter to change the fundamental laws that define a particular area and comply with what the Government is, which the Parliament expects investors to change in laws so that they can be encouraging to invest. In your presentation, you listed three strategic projects that you say are in resolution, in realisation and that it has already been shown in a certain way that it was justified to pass such a law. And you see, I'm going to tell you that there's one big project that the government has solved in the last term and has not been declared a strategic project at all, and it's worth more than all of those three projects that you mentioned to be about 600 million kunas or 600 million kunas, it seems to me that you said. In fact, in the last term, the government launched a tender and decided on the selection of the most favourable concessionaire for the construction of the hotel complex Kukari and for the concessionaire of maritime goods in Kuperi. And the whole procedure went under the radar of this law. And better, because if he had been tied to this law, he wouldn't have been realized. So, no, this law when it comes to investments in Croatia, when it comes to their realisation, does not need this law at all, but is important for certain laws that define the management of maritime goods, the use of state land, etc. etc. They need to be amended to help make certain projects in Croatia faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2631	Thank you. The esteemed representative Milorad Batinic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2632	Thank you, Mr. President. Namely, my colleague Bacic, I was aware that you listened very carefully, but obviously you heard something. In fact, this strategic investment law was passed as an inter-phase, in between, to fill in space until a favourable business environment is resolved, or until structural reforms are implemented in the Republic of Croatia. That's the basics. And as long as this is not implemented and structural reforms simply involve this part of the deregulation and the adoption of a completely new regulation in certain areas that antagonise the development of the economy let's say investment and all together. So for this reason, I consider it important in this period until practically in Croatia a more positive environment is created. As for Cooper, I can't even claim now whether there were any mistakes or no mistakes, but I do know that there were certain dilemmas and doubts as with a lot of state property and still today and still a large number of state property, unfortunately, especially when it comes to military facilities, I think it's near the end now, you don't have them anywhere recorded. It's a general problem that's been inherited, that so far all governments have been inheriting, trying to solve, let it be more successful, let it be less successful. As for the general once again of this law, what else was done during that period, whether to go to change the 15, 16, laws that are tangling, which are contained in this law to simplify the procedure, to speed up the procedure and that, as he said, paraphrased fellow Shucker means to catch the hand and carry the investor through the forest regulatory. Yes, it was necessary and today is necessary, and tomorrow will be necessary, but it is up to us here to change that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2633	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2634	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Here's my colleague Batinic reminded me when he said that Croatia has no strategy on Mr. Dead Racan and Budisa who are also here from this pay phone just 15 years ago when I began to follow the policy saying there was no strategy. And to this day, we still don't have that strategy. So I just wanted to say that those who previously participated in the work of this Parliament and in the government to ask themselves what they were doing and I appeal to Mr. Minister Paninic and the Government to bring in the strategy as soon as possible, and not as the 2009 energy that fell the first month after the adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2635	Thank you. The esteemed representative Milorad Batinic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2636	Thank you very much. So a colleague that as far as I know, and I've made an effort to study Croatia generally has no development strategy. There are sectoral strategies and from the former governments that have been corrected, and the past government and previous governments have adopted certain strategies for certain areas, so sectors, generally not united in one place. And I think it's necessary, I think it's necessary and it's strictly necessary for a very simple reason I have certain experiences, I've been at a local level for a long time, the first time you see an investor coming where he's come from, where he's come from. Is that in the right sense Business friendly environment? Then it comes from spatial plans, strategic plans, he's interested in the development of municipal infrastructure, he's interested in all more or less projects. Because if he's got a big investment, if he thinks maybe not for a whole year living here with you, he wants to know where he came from. And he can do more or less in all of local self-government's environments find development strategies such as quality, that's something to talk about, but they're excellent, better at any document, any strategy of any kind. When strategies are adopted whether at regional, local level you have nothing to commit to. Analysis of spatial plans, municipal, city-coordinated with county, county with national. You don't have a local strategy, regionally tied to nothing. And that is why I say that, first of all, I agree with you, and it should be a political consensus for the improvement of all of us in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2637	Thank you very much. And now we have one individual discussion of the distinguished representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2638	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, and I will continue in my debate in the same way as I said in the replicas, which is that the law is like this, as it is conceived, does not contribute absolutely to the improvement of the investment environment in the Republic of Croatia and is unnecessary for me in the legal and legislative framework in the Republic of Croatia. The way he is with his 30s members, how he defined strategic investment projects. But before that, I will say a few words, namely, Mr. SDP Ministers welcomed you in his debate with the observation that the government has been doing nothing in the past 27 days, that this is the first law to come to debate in the Croatian Parliament and that is correct. So this is, you're the first minister to defend one law in this term. But I'd add something to that. Namely, this government has been the first government of the Republic of Croatia since 2000 to start working and during that time the Croatian Parliament has met. Namely in the 4th, 5th, 6th and 7th meeting of the Croatian Parliament after the Government was appointed the Croatian Parliament did not meet for at least a month. In those months, the government formed, established, and had time to prepare some legislative texts in peace. And this time it is immediately after the Government has appointed the Croatian Parliament has continued its session and it is such a great opportunity that if we want we can politicise and be politicians about the work or not work of the Government. So this is the first government that didn't have that break, the possibility of a peaceful constitution, to start working because the whole time the Parliament was sitting and the work of the government was being questioned, as I say with the previous government was not the case, all governments had about 27 to 40 days of breaks in which time they could approach the creation of certain texts of the law. But I only made that as an opening remark and now I'm going to say a few words about the law itself. So when the law was passed we held his debate in the first and second readings and between the first and the second texts was somewhat and changed, it was harmonised. However, even then, we claimed that the important investment environment in Croatia would not be improved by this law. In this proposal, the law listed all of them, in the opening explanation of this bill, were all of those laws in Croatia which, in a certain way, impair investment and represent administrative obstacles to the rapid implementation of investments from the Law on Maritime Goods, the Law on Roads, the Law on Waters, the Law on Forests, the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, etc., so there were some 16 laws that were numbered. And I believe that if the serious government really wants to change its legislative framework, to make strategic reforms, to make the country competitive, to a country where certain solutions, decisions, decisions, a state in which it reacts without delay to the demand of investors or law-makers should be amended. These laws need to be made, entered into and prescribed procedures that will be implemented by a faster solution. Namely, I would like someone to deny me, to tell me if there are any acts in Croatia written by officials of state bodies in Croatia and that this act is based on this law? Any act which is arranged in the section of road construction, in part... maritime goods, in the area of forest land resolution, agricultural land. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So is there any act, is one official in Croatia if the law is good using this law to define the law which is his basic law? It's not and it can't. And there is no law that comes and generally addresses the issue of improving the investment climate to be imposed on a civil servant who concessions on the maritime good or establishes a limit on the maritime good to act under this law and not on his basic laws, which prescribes the procedure. However, if he did, he would have ended it, he'd certainly be subject to investigation. Therefore, I argue that it is necessary to make a quality step into and implement changes to individual laws. I said the following in the replica of my colleague Batinić. The project passed by the government continued from the former HDZ government is the Kupar project. In the Croatian Parliament, we discussed this contest, this public invitation. And it is interesting, therefore, that the biggest investment that has been realised in this project has no touch points with this law which should solve strategic investment, which is the largest strategic investment project in tourism in the Republic of Croatia. There is no mention of this law in the premise of a decision to open a tender and to publish a public invitation. Clearly, the Law on State Property Management under which an individual official must react is mentioned. And the Law of the Sea Good is mentioned. There are no words about this law because he doesn't need it because he doesn't contribute to this project that the government says has brought to an end and chosen the most favourable bidder to build this complex. It doesn't and it can't be. In fact, Croatia will become a country that can respond faster to the investor's request once it resolves three important issues. First and fundamental question not settled property-legal relations. On land and accordingly an unscheduled cadastre and land book, it is the biggest obstacle to any realisation of projects in Croatia. All those who have ever participated in project development know that because of the uncoordinated cataster and real-state land books on the ground, it is impossible to react quickly with the issue of construction permits and with the realisation of the project. Our cadastre is a land book in most parts based on a measure of 160 years ago. A number of changes have occurred on the ground and have not been followed in the land book and that is one of the main problems. Another problem is what counterpart Schuker was talking about, a country that changes tax laws, income tax, age tax, VAT rates, etc. 40 times in 3.4 years, etc. is an insecure state for any serious investment. And until a secure and stable system can hardly be expected to invest significantly, an investment cycle that would involve such large strategic projects. And the third thing is faster adoption of spatial plans in line with the spatial plans of urban, county and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, which can then, at the request of investors, be faster to bring the deadlines down, even though we already have in the previous term and in the one before that, shortened them in a certain way, and still that deadline, given the numerous other studies and projects that monitor the adoption of spatial-planning documentation, that part is needed to be resolved. Therefore, these are fundamental assumptions that it could be resolved, i.e. by responding to faster investment in the Republic of Croatia. And clearly there are laws that are partly out of line, which I did just before and counted which also need to be solved. So there's no magic wand. So do you think in Croatia you would wait for 2014 to change the investment climate with a small law that counts 30 articles with a deep change in the investment climate? Well, that would be someone's memory before 2010, third, second, '98. if one magic law with only 30 articles could completely change the investment climate in Croatia. It's just impossible. The law that we have passed and which we call the Strategic Investment Project Act is nothing else, I look at the procuring officer who says how and how the project is reported, who speaks of who makes up the government's commission and who makes up the operational body. It's a law he's dealt with in a significant way, he's prescribed some procedure that could be colluded by the government's regulation. And that he claims to be a law that will significantly change the environment in Croatia is simply not true and it is not possible. So, such a law, we can change it, we can supplement it, but if we don't change the basic laws that, indeed often are an obstacle and a barrier to investment, will not have any such law, the general law will be able to change significantly. So I'm more inclined to define and identify with my own program what obstacles these are in a particular law, and then with that, it goes here to the Parliament and we change those laws, and this kind of law that can or doesn't have to be said it matters in that part won't change. So let me get this straight. I also support this amendment to the law. In order for the commission created by the law to continue to function, but if Mr. Minister you really want to go into one, to enable a faster way of investing in Croatia, then this law itself is as it is and only one law cannot be changed if it really does not enter into certain laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2639	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. She is the first of those respected MPs, Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2640	Dear colleague Bačić, you say and it is your opinion but many share on your part and not only on your part the opinion that this law does not solve anything and you have mainly focused your debate on not speaking about these changes, but saying that this law will not solve anything. Well, I'm surprised you don't break that law. Someone even said he was anti-constitutional. Why doesn't that law be abolished, because you say he doesn't solve anything, except he solves one chair, and you didn't even talk about it. Then you tell this government he complains that there are only two, three legislative proposals, and that this is the first government that hasn't had that much time that there are other times. They had time to establish themselves, or they were built on time and at that constitutional stop. But you had your majority on 28.12 when the Croatian Parliament was established. Who's to blame for taking you almost a month to form a government, where it was already clear that you had a majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2641	The esteemed representative Branko Bačić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2642	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, the minister will both the ministry and the government decide what to do with this law. The way it is, it's no use to her, it's no harm to her. Therefore, nothing will change even if it stays, but not if it is abolished. It will be determined by the government. In my debate, I just wanted to say that he won't encourage investment. That's what I was gonna say. And as for your observations that this government did not have this committee that had, or committee, this one time when Parliament was not sitting, then it was not so much under public guard because it was not the Parliament. That's right. The former government, which was established on 22.12., thus the government of the Kukuriku coalition had 28 days. In those 28 days, the government has also slowly established itself, has appointed deputies, so the assistants and the first act to come here came after almost a month. So nothing here has changed. And this government, with its first act, no matter what cosmetic change it was, came almost less before it came from that government that was before. That's what I'm saying, that simply when the government takes responsibility for state-leading, when it's named ministers, there's no magic wand as far as I'm concerned that it can come with the law to the Parliament right away, it takes time until the government is formed, while the ministries are formed, until legal proposals are prepared. You were also a minister, you were writing laws, and you know very well that the law cannot be written in one day as far as I'm concerned, that he must pass the opinion of all other ministries, that he must be shown by other ministries, that there is a procedure for that law to come especially if it is a serious law. Such a small law can come after two days, a law that only changes one article. But a serious law that involves a certain reform, which includes financial resources, also requires a budget. When the Government adopts a law, it must know that this law also includes financial resources that must be secured in the budget. So that's what it was.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2643	Thank you very much. The next replica will be the distinguished representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2644	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must also look back on Mr. Bačić's remarks. There are certain terms, there are dynamics, there are stalkings, but there are also archives of agendas. And then when you look at, say, today's government session that's fourth in this session, you don't have any laws on it. And when you look at the fourth session of the last government, then you'll see seven laws on the agenda. So it has nothing to do with the Parliament, because the Parliament is sitting when it is sitting and the government is passing laws on it. But it has to do with the government. If the past government has passed ten laws in this period and had one dynamic and I would say very seriously, then that difference can be seen. That's what anyone who's an objective observer will say. You may not be a little subjective, but when you look at it, I said the agendas and what was done there was a clear difference. And on that side, there's no excuse for right now at the 4th session, we don't have any single law or idea at all. And I have a feeling that both ministers and the prime minister have been collecting ideas for the past month. It's as if they've only found each other now and now they're gathering ideas from what the past government has been doing and now they're going to propose something in the coming period. And another thing isn't the government that makes the laws, you know, so it's not the government that's going to be with this law. It's up to the government to propose and it's up to us to vote. So, however, do not put the Croatian Parliament in a subordinate position to the Croatian government because yet this House means the Croatian Parliament is what represents the most Croatian citizens and should have the greatest influence in decision-making.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2645	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Branko Bačić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2646	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Maras can agree that in the first month, the former government had a little more bill proposals, and I can agree. But the inflation of the law itself does not say that they are of quality. You've really passed laws, even in a way that you've known in a year five times the law. And you knew how to send the law to the assembly, so until it came to change it twice. After all, didn't the Constitutional Court bring down a huge number of laws because they were unquality and all the laws? Not to say that out of force, the Constitutional Court put in you a number of articles of certain laws because they were unprepared, they were not harmonised, they were unconstitutional, etc., etc. The speed and inflation itself does not mean much. Better to pass one law but good than five bad ones. That's what I expect this government to do. We are in no hurry, first of all until the budget is adopted, until the budget determines what and how this government is thinking about leading Croatia, in which direction it is intended to do reforms, it is difficult to expect some of the Croatian Parliament's crucial laws. So it doesn't bother me that the laws have not been finished by now. Let the laws come in line with the state budget then that will be what this people and this country need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2647	Thank you. The next replica will be the esteemed representative of Damir Krstičević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2648	Dear President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleague Bacic, honourable MPs. I'd like to support what you said one more time. People don't have, especially about the assumptions for investing from tax cadastres of the meaning of these business plans I think we're aware of all together here in this hall that a lot of things we have to change, and we don't even have to wait any longer. Our most important strategic goal today, I think we are all together aware of the strong start of the economy. And I'm glad there's a minister. Minister, full of support to do everything you need to do to make people in our Croatia live better, better quality. Therefore, using all the boredom you can use from all the previous governments, lessons learned is very much. Therefore, it is all thought, so that it is articulated, so that tomorrow through and through the laws that will be passed here and what is most important tomorrow and the implementation of these laws will be better and better in our Croatia. We have to be, I think we're all aware together, faster, better and more ready than the competition. So there's absolutely everything in that part of us. So here I would absolutely support this individual debate of my colleagues Bačić and here again, and the minister it goes so that it can be better and better in our Croatia once again. Let's focus, and it doesn't lose energy on some debates that don't lead to anything that have no purpose. Here's another backup.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2649	Thank you very much. It will now be replicated by the distinguished representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2650	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2651	And I'm sorry, I didn't see you raise your hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2652	Yeah, I did. Well, my colleague Krstičević, in fact, you have supported Mr. Minister on this that certain projects that are already in this catalogue and recorded to me seem to have about 12 projects plus 4 strategic ones that have already been declared, these are projects that have long been in Croatian society, which are spoken of, some ministries already have very high-level documentation for their realization. These projects have since been declared strategic by this law, they, the problems in their resolution, arise not from the implementation of this law but from the implementation of other laws that need to be addressed as a previous issue in order for these projects to be implemented. In this respect, it is necessary to insist on these laws in order to allow for their change to be made more quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2653	Thank you. Now the word will be given to the honourable representative Goran Maric for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2654	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, I agree with you that the amendment of this existing law is necessary for the very functioning of the State Office for State Property Management, and it is also important to highlight what you started to do that the Minister and the Ministry of Economy is extremely high responsibility because of the deep crisis in which the Croatian economy has been in place for years and that even I agree with the fact that this law is unusable, it is completely unusable. And that there is actually a need for the Investment Act and not just for strategic investment because there is no economic recovery without investment activity. And for investment activity, many environments are the most important credit, monetary environment. It's economical in the entire environment, it's a tax environment, it's a social environment, and at the same time it needs to be coordinated and functioning. For example, VAT on building land in the crisis was introduced at a rate of 25%, the effect has no effect because of this there is no revenue in the state budget, and we have collected unsold apartments with a price of 10% to 12%. The first move is that the VAT tax rate on construction land is reduced to about 5 to 10%, or as an interdependencies. It is important to remove the fear that exists, and there is fear of paid and not of done works, there is fear of done works, there is fear of unskilled works, fear of unfair competition, fear of blackmail, fear of tax administration, fear of tax changes. In general, we must remove fear so that investors can function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2655	Thank you. Answer the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2656	Thank you, Mr. President. I agree with my colleague Maric. We need an investment law. So you remember well when we passed this law in the first and second readings that we both claimed that the limit, how the limit, in order for some law to be declared strategic must be 150 million kunas, or 20 million euros. And now some project that has 150m euros employs, for example 60 people is a strategic project and some worth 130m kunas can't be declared a strategic project and it simply, and employs maybe 130 people it's not a strategic project. So, already the criteria when the law was passed was on one side of a particular investor putting in an unfavourable position the doors of the state administration were not open, for it had to be, he did not have this blessing that the state official in 15 days had to issue to him any confirmation, and perhaps from an economic point of view it was worth where and where more Croatian economy than that project that was declared strategic and which from the aspect of employment, contributions, the creation of new values might not contribute as some project that was not. So from that point of view, they just saw how unconstitutional the law might be, etc. etc. I would have asked the question earlier whether going to a civil servant in Croatia was punishable for not signing a strategic investor within 15 days any confirmation, conclusion or failure to resolve his request. He could not be punished because he acted according to his law, which solves the very section in which the request was filed. Therefore, in this sense, Mr. Minister, we claim that such a law is not good, it is no use to it, if there is and it is possible to make a new law on all investments in Croatia that will have the same access to all investors, then it is, we can discuss it and we will certainly give full support to such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2657	Thank you. And now the closing word will be given by the respected Economy Minister Tomislav Paninic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2658	President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs here I have sat here carefully, for five hours listening to this debate and I can say that I am glad to be here that this debate today was not just in the spirit of this change that everyone agrees to be technical. It is of a technical nature and is expected to make a move and be responsible for the projects that have been nominated because those who nominate them expect us to respond. The answer is certainly not to wait for something to change, to make structural reforms, they expect it to happen quickly, and that is why I have stated that I want something to simply change with this law. Because what's missing? The time frame is missing. So today, since 2013, when it came into force, we don't have a single project on this list of strategies that has been brought to an end. It's my responsibility now as the minister who's in this vault. I just can't say that the changes have to happen, that they have to be current, that these projects that were selected at one point they were chosen for that, there was also a question whether we were stopping anything, not only should we need if the time frame is as wide as we have set it now that in 2016 still some projects that were put on the list to expect their realization as they might have been proposed 2013. The problem is that the environment in which we live no longer allows us to act that we can wait three years for an idea to be realized in the way that it was and then, and so let me and the Minister of Economy who represents interests and the Republic of Croatia to take those projects, I have them here on this side, that we can say in what way, and the Republic of Croatia expects them not only to be a short-term contribution to our GDP, to be quickly realised, that this construction, the action of a place that will engage to be only a short-term profit and that, in the long run as the realisation takes place, this project amortised to be something that makes damage. Therefore, it is something that is currently being done in the ministry where these projects I accept as serious, as quality proposals. Likewise, those who have not yet been put on the list need to pass the analysis that I can then, responsibly as a resolution minister, confirm that they can do so in further procedure. But I'm going to say this change itself, it's not a change of me or procedure, it's a change in the commission because it's what decisions are made. Me and my associates and everyone involved, we need to provide the commission with information that is current, which are realistic that they can make quality decisions. And then decisions will be made on the basis of facts and on the basis of an economic plan and means that it can be useful in future times. I would agree here and with the conclusion that the question of why we have this law and we can certainly question whether it was brought to the point of actually questioning ourselves rather than actually pushing investment. Because the fact is that there are a number of obstacles, every day trust me that we have countless suggestions on how to reduce certain burdens, certain obstacles greater or less. So I can understand that in the long run and the law has been passed to speed up some procedures, to learn from the realization of them that those involved understand the importance not only of these strategic projects but also of every project that brings any employment and what is most important to us that... It affects the overall economic picture of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Right now, I don't have an alibi that I can declare this law not necessary because those on the list actually paint our desire to quickly and qualitatively implement important strategic projects from whatever sectors they come from and that they can be a cover in future development. The time before us opens up the opportunity to look at and through this law its accelerated realization, its changes, whether in the future it will really be something we may not need but become a regular practice. But right now I'd really like to ask that here with regard to the support it's been given that precisely these changes that we can say are technical or nomotechnical for them to go through the procedure. And me and all your suggestions, I'll appreciate all the debate during the changes I'm going to suggest. And here I am also thanking you for the offer to include the club representatives and, of course, the committees you have, which deal with this topic to make a contribution to making the best of the law, and that we can say when changes are more comprehensive that we can also discuss quality in the framework of a working day, because I think that then this esteemed House and also the Government can say what we have become more efficient and we are in the spirit of the flow that we want and the economy. I thank you for the support you've given these changes today. And here I recommend that the doors of my ministry be opened for all of you to participate in progress together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2659	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Željko Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2660	Your Honor. We're always talking about some kind of, I agree with the minister, it takes a frame. But when we get the rule of law and who's gonna invest here if there's no legal certainty. You have a global stock exchange, you have two hundred Croatian companies on the global market. What investments we've turned down from these people outside and who will come here if we have corruption at all levels, 40,000 companies without any employees. And when are we going to create this legal framework? 20 years have passed since we came to our internationally recognised borders, we still don't have that legal certainty. And without synergies between the Ministry of Economy, the judiciary and others, we won't go far. I don't see that management at a higher level, we have these generals here who have managed large systems, no one asks their opinion here and that situation has to improve because we're back to '16. The year of GDP will be, an external debt of more than 100% of GDP and we are here at Greece's level if the situation is not corrected. How long can we wait? That's my humble question.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2661	Thank you very much. That's what I'd like to conclude with this discussion. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We would now go to the Final Bill on Amendments to the Law on Strategic Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 3. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is over. The amendments were submitted by the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists and by the Committee on Legislatives. During the debate, a representative of the club of MPs of the Most Independent Lists withdrew the amendment. I ask that a representative of the Government be shown about the amendments of the Committee on Law. Here you are, Deputy Minister of Economy Mr. Leo Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2663	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Therefore, amendments to the Croatian Parliament Legislatives Committee from the meeting held on 17 February 2016 on Articles 2 and 3 are hereby adopted. Final draft law amending the Act on Strategic Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2664	Thank you very much. The amendments adopted by the applicant therefore become an integral part of the final draft law. I am voting on the final draft law amending the Act on Strategic Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia. Please engage and let's vote. Who's in? The vote is over. 103 votes in favour, 1 abstention. I find that most votes have been passed a law amending the Law on Strategic Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia together with the amendments adopted. So we would move on to the following law and this is: - Final proposal of the Law on the Amendment of the Law on Governance and Property, owned by the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 4.; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 24. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received reports from those committees at the session. The Government has submitted amendments that become an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 202. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yes, then go ahead. Dear Economy Minister Tomislav Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2666	Thank you, Mr. President. So it's about these amendments to the Law on Amendments to the Law on Management and Property. I would say that the same thing as we've discussed now strategic investment, and this is about the changes that apply to the commission that needs to be dealt with right now, to make decisions. The Law on management and availability of property in the Ownership of the Republic of Croatia entered into force on 23 July 2013. The law regulates the management and availability of assets owned by the Republic of Croatia, the forms of state property, the principles of property management, the documents governing the property as well as the means, the conditions of management and the availability of shares, the business conditions which constitute state property, the commercial companies, the arrangements and conditions for the management and availability of property which constitute state property, the part and powers of the State Office for the Management of State Property in the management of that property, the distinction in the power to manage state property between the state office, the ministry, the companies which have been given these powers under specific laws. Then establish and maintain a register of state property, administrative and inspection supervision, and all other issues. The law stipulates that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has appointed by decision the Government of the Republic of Croatia to manage strategic companies effectively and as they do, so that it was Vice-President of the Government for the Economy, Minister of Finance, Minister of Economy, Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Entrepreneurship and Trade, Minister of Labour and Pension System. That commission is authorised to consider plans, reports on the business of companies and other legal persons of strategic special interest for the Republic of Croatia, to propose to the Government of the Republic of Croatia the Code of Management of Commercial Companies and Other Legal Persons, to propose to the Government of the Republic of Croatia members of supervisory boards and management of commercial companies and other legal persons, also to consider restructuring plans for companies of other legal persons of strategic and special interest to the Republic of Croatia. This is where the problem arises because it is prescribed that a member of the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is in charge of the economy. However, as you are also familiar with the formation of a new Government of the Republic of Croatia, it is not envisaged that the Vice-President of the Government in charge of the Economy shall be appointed to amend the provisions of the law prescribed to be a member of the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government, and this amendment to the Property Management Act proposes that members of the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall be responsible for the management of state property as chairman of the Commission in that commission and the Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia appointed by the Government as Vice-President of the Commission. In this way, in addition to modifying the technical amendment relating to the composition of the new Government, we will also strengthen the composition of the commission, and will allow the Government of the Republic of Croatia to appoint all members of the Commission within 30 days of the entry into force of the amendment, and that the commission will begin its work in order to effectively manage trade societies of strategic and particular interest. I therefore propose that the Croatian Parliament pass this law by emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2667	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. I note that there are a lot of registered clubs and individually, so let's get ready for a longer discussion. On behalf of the IDS Representatives' Club, the first representative of Giovanni Sponza will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2668	Thank you. Here is this amendment to the Law on Management and Property of the Republic of Croatia are, in fact, as we see technical and political nature ourselves, and as the representative himself who spoke on behalf of the club MOST saying that they are actually cosmetic, so I want to say at the very beginning that I expected much more from the promoters. It is my view that it is less important that in the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to manage strategic companies there will be one or two vice-presidents of the Government and what their formal names will be, and that it is much more important that we all together create a full concept of the economic strategy of governance of state property because we do not have it with clear objectives, regulations, implementing measures and that it is a high percentage of the use of state property and all in order to develop the state, its counties, cities, municipalities, in order to strengthen the overall economy of the Republic of Croatia and to improve the standard of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. In addition, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Oreshkovic, pointed out that putting into office of state property, more efficient management and availability, is the easiest way to alleviate and solve the problems that affect our country in a significant way. I guess that means clear rules, I guess that means rules that protect national resources like water and rules that don't take away the potential of growth for future generations. In that sense, it is our first obligation to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and then to us MPs, to detect, as soon as possible, regulations that are missing, unimplementable, rules that are definitely making economic progress for the Republic of Croatia more difficult as a whole. I mention examples such as the Law on Forests, the Law on Tourism and Other Building Land, maritime goods or certain measures concerning the lack of compliance of cadastrian and land-book data. The IDS Club considers that the time has come to implement a comprehensive decentralisation both functional and financial with the transfer of obligations and powers from state to local level, with the transfer of liability of funds and material goods currently owned or managed by state authorities to local level. The IDS Club advocates that the state level should firstly ensure the legal framework and functioning of the same, so that the state level retains control mechanisms in order to avoid possible abuses. It's made to be very efficient. Finally, examples of good practice across Europe prove to us that citizens' needs are best and most efficient at their nearest level, which are cities and municipalities where citizens live. This difficult economic situation in the country should neither the Government of the Republic of Croatia nor this assembly of parliament be an excuse to remain in the status quo position because the current way of doing what we have and through the previous law all concluded has not received satisfactory results. It's definitely time for a different direction of state policy, but it's also time for a stronger twist in the direction of decentralisation. On the trail previously brought out of the IDS Club, we have nothing against such technical and political changes of laws because it is understandable for us that everyone sets up a system as it suits him the most. But we are on the other side of the view that the Government of the Republic of Croatia needs to move as soon as possible from the political staffing that has really been going on for too long, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is targeting all forces towards changes in fundamental laws and regulations. The IDS Club expects the Government of the Republic of Croatia to open a debate in the Croatian Parliament as soon as possible on these extremely important and important topics, and we will, on our part, contribute fully to the discussion and proposal of quality solutions and all in order to encourage and develop the economy of the Republic of Croatia and a better standard of living for all its citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2669	Thank you very much. Next, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the word will be taken by the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2670	I would like to thank the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Already in the pre-election campaign, HDZ has been very responsible, has thoroughly pledged a number of significant, comprehensive reforms in state property management. HDZ is a large part of its announcement that would aim at Croatia's economic recovery based on serious interventions in the state property management system. So to remind, for example, Minister of Finance Mr. Zdravko Maric in the HRT daily on January 24th of this year said: "The smaller deficit, economic growth and more active use of state assets are our objectives." Another respected HDZ representative respected Domagoj Milosevic also at HRT just before, on January 5th, says "The state property accounts for only 1% of GDP. There is a huge potential for economic growth if state property is put into operation. We have therefore proposed to separate real estate management from the management of public enterprises. The intention is to depolitise public enterprises, i.e. their professionalisation." — January 5, 2016 And Mr Tomislav Karamarko before the election shrubs on the need to put in place numerous untapped tourist potentials and abandoned agricultural land and state property. And in the end, even a person who should play a key role in the government, I say should and there is no, Prime Minister Tihomir Oreshkovic, then a prime minister, announces from Kitzbuhell that he will focus on launching inactive assets, especially the activation of an abandoned state property that is not in office and says, "It is dead capital, and here I think we have very clear possibilities to activate these assets and thus reduce debt." And here's the thing. Promises come true. The reform is here in front of us. It took the government almost a month to prepare it, but the reform is here. A number of other equally important projects have been neglected due to the hard work on this reform. The genius Ante Tomic thus reveals that babies in Croatia are crying because HDZ has deceived them by 1,000 euros. In order to fulfill that promise, an article in the Law on maternity and parental support was to be amended, but we understand that this reform was not the case because it was the reform of state property management. And what is this reform? It consists of a legal amendment to one single article. The rest of the law this government obviously feels good, feels that it is not necessary to change what we understand and as a recognition to the former government that brought it, we thank you. So we have this reform and let's get a little deeper into it. According to the current law, the Committee on State Property Management was chaired by the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the economy. This government is extremely concerned about the economy, she mentioned several times. This was also mentioned by campaign parties, especially HDZ. So because this government is extremely concerned about the economy, it abolished the role of the vice president in charge of the economy. That's pretty logical, we understand that. Now, the government has sent a bill that the commission will be chaired by the Deputy Prime Minister appointed by the government. And that's where the dispute arises, there's a misunderstanding between coalition partners. Who's the vice president of the government going to be? Karamarko or Petrov, Petrov or Karamarko? That's the most important thing for this reform. And by correcting the law in which one article was amended, the Government settled it with an amendment. It was actually about who would put his paw on state-owned companies, on state-owned property, who would kidnap billions of valuable prey. No deal, no trust, obviously. Because if he did, then the Most would say, so we trust HDZ's vice president. If HDZ trusted the Most then he'd say so we trust Mr. Petrov to make him the one. There is no agreement, no trust, not even on the parliamentary committees, there was no quorum of the ruling majority, so there were HDZ and MOST forced by the government amendment to change that one single article, and according to this latest solution in the commission, the two vice-presidents of the government and Karamarko and Petrov are sitting. And there's still no need for their names to be listed in the law to be quite clear. It is, therefore, the only amendment to the existing law, which is the essence and essence of this reform. The government gives itself a 30-day deadline to appoint this commission, and the commission will be chaired by Deputy Prime Minister, Finance Minister, Minister of Economy, Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Entrepreneurship and Trade and Minister of Labour and Pension System. And to name a commission consisting of these ministers will take exactly 30 days. It also doesn't need to be surprised when we see how the government works. It's been almost a month. They haven't even got a second name yet. Maybe it'll work by half the term. As a responsible opposition, we support this reform primarily because of its comprehensiveness, because of its depth, because of the seriousness of the approach and we will vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2671	Thank you very much. The next debate will be on behalf of the HDZ club, and it will be a respected representative of Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2672	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues are sorry that one of our colleagues who expressed serious concern at the previous point, and it was very similar to this one had to leave so that I did not refer to his exposure that he did not have, all of which was compensated by my colleague Stazic in this inspired speech in front of the SDP club. Something we'd like to say in praise of this law will deny what you've been talking about. First of all, unfortunately, you don't have exactly the exact information as far as the quorum is concerned with the working bodies, but it's really less important for this law. It is a fundamental question, and another law is similar to content and similar ideas at the session today and everyone has baptized it as technical amendments to the law I would say that it is not only technical it is essential changes but not for reasons that he managed to identify fellow Stazic. The fundamental changes to this law are evident in something else. It is evident that this is a change in state property management from how it has been managed so far by your party, sir, the SDP party and their coalition that has run the state for the past four years. So I'll remind you so much that your party, who in a different way created legislation, mostly according to the personal needs of some of your members, which is why these laws were given personal names. As soon as the Government of Zoran Milanovic took office, you made a decision in February 2012 by which you are and I will say that it has been called on to determine the conditions for candidates for members of supervisory or management boards and the management of companies in which the Republic of Croatia has shares or shares in other words in ways that you will choose the authorities that manage the property of the Republic of Croatia. At the time of 2012, there were criteria of several basic conditions for completing the study, you have 5 years of working experience and that the Government, on a proposal from the State Property Management Office, proposes and appointed you to do this. This was the only criterion that you managed to achieve in order to set up managements of companies controlled by the assets of the Republic of Croatia and those of strategic societies, companies of strategic importance for the Republic of Croatia. Today we are changing Article 45.zacon which speaks about the Government's Commission for the Management of Strategic Trade Companies and you have objections to who should be sitting in that commission, or you see in this the overall reform of the Government that has taken office. And given the laws that regulate and this area, I will tell you that your government is, after this decision of 2012 which is also interesting then in the form of a decision after the parliamentary elections have been called, a regulation that enters into force on 22.10. A regulation which, according to the Law of takeover of power, should not have been passed at all, which changed the principle of the appointment of management of companies and supervisory committees that I quoted from you from 2012 so now you are looking for tenders, looking for a whole series of documents that should be served in the selection of the best staff and then you invent a phenomenal approach to using special specialised agencies or how your colleagues of Croatia like to say head hunting agencies that will hunt for the needs of companies the best staff that the Government would later set up for the management of companies. The problem is that dear colleagues in the opposition is that it is a document that you should not have adopted under the Law on Taking over of Government, but more importantly that it is extremely incorrect for all those you had to hand over to because at the end of the term of office in the election campaign you changed the conditions under which you did business for 4 years. Until then, according to your principle, it was worth a political likeness and then you leave leaving the authorities to inherit someone else to conduct tenders according to only you known procedure. According to this procedure, the agency has not yet been selected in competitions and, possibly, for the next 6 months, all companies could not have administrations that could be responsible for their work. Sadly, in your inspired speech, you missed the mention. And that brings us back to the discussion of how you led the staff policy and I remember your words when the SDP government took office. Since your words then, said for this pay phone, there is very little left. But I'm going to remind you in that flood of the laws you despoiled at the beginning of the mandate were laws as I already said tailored to the personal preferences of some of your members. And then you assured us in particular that civil servants should and can be employed beyond the competition, without competitions and without qualifications, often using the term revolving doorkeepers by which you will introduce yourself into the state service of people without competition, knowledge, experience and ability, and you will also fire them at the end of the state service mandate. None of the promises have happened, except you hired out without a contest. You left them still at work in the state administration and then you found it interesting 21 December 2015 The Constitutional Court made a decision that abolished the law, i.e. an article of the Law on civil servants that allowed this employment to be politically similar. For the matter to be better in these decisions of the Constitutional Court to have interesting matters, that decision of the Constitutional Court shall enter into force, i.e. it shall apply from 1 January of this year. Which means the entire four-year term of your government can be employed by political resemblance, when you leave the government these rules no longer apply and all future applications are needed, qualifications are needed, testing is needed, and what the Constitution guarantees is that they are all equal. This looked like employment for the past four years not only in strategically important enterprises but even in the state administration. And on the creation of regulations, the reforms you speak better than my words speak your examples. I said I wouldn't mention any esteemed names of our colleagues. Not only did you write in the favour of these colleagues laws that applied only to them but you even went so far in the legislative activity that some of them wanted to be excluded from the political game, from the pre-election or election match using the difficult-to-understanding provisions of the laws you proposed. It was a mandate marked by your government and today you object to government solutions where it seeks to regulate bodies that will deal with other matters and appoint supervisory committees and boards in a way that is clear to all. And that will come in announced reforms and the principle of competition and competition for the best for these duties, you will have to have a little patience and wait until it happens and you won't need a year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2673	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He is the first to present his representative, Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2674	You're telling a distinguished colleague that I have objections to this bill. On the contrary, I have expressed my admiration, my enthusiasm for the depth of the procedure and the breadth of these changes. You spoke here, that's all you said about this law, that I have objections and that's incorrect. Everything else you've said, you've analyzed the former government's actions, you realize the elections are over, MOST has given you the right to manage. Yes, we've made a provision, we've come up with a provision whereby public tenders should be chosen by those who will manage companies. We were convinced that together with the Most or other coalition partners, we would win power, form a government and stick to the rules that seem to bother you now. You'd like to put HDZ in there, but it's not going. We have passed a law with clear rules, it must be carried out in public competition. You would probably at a cabinet meeting, in the first cabinet session, change that provision if you could. Most probably doesn't allow you to do that, and we've put those changes into operation, we've changed that law because we've kind of predicted what the Most could ask for, so that's the kind of change that we've brought to you now that the Most defends you. That's what we look forward to as much as this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2675	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2676	Dear fellow Stazic, I am pleased that you have repeated that this law delights you. I may have misunderstood your irony or sarcasm, but I will still keep what I realized at first, how thrilled you are with our regulations and what you will plead. What is incorrect and should not be used in your speech is that you have advocated at any time of work or government if you want your Government to have you advocated competitions. That's just not true. For four years, you've done everything without competitions and exclusively political similarities, and that's why I've quoted some of the laws you've passed with that intention. I haven't even mentioned the Law on Croatian Radio Television, but he will probably be here on the agenda, and then it will be no matter whether you try this way to talk about colleagues from my or other parties. You are a party that has worked for four years without tendering for political similarities, and when you realized you were coming down from power, you wanted to change things not because you believed in the competition and you believed in the fair selection of people, but because you wanted to complicate the procedure of those who came to power to decide about the people that you had not had any competitions deployed across the state administration, local self-government, public companies and all the institutions in this country. That's the problem, and you can't get away from it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2677	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2678	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Mlakar, we remember the session of the Parliament in February 2012 when the Law on the System of State Administration was amended, when directors of the administration were abolished as top officials in the system of state administration, when ministerial assistants were introduced as third class state officials. And I remember when my colleagues, Stazic, said in the debate, that it would be good to remain a provision under which members of the boards of directors and boards of public companies and state institutions choose the competition and then the administration, and then the administrations of those institutions. He was just saying that the minister would have to put himself loyal and loyal people in charge of his own portfolio, not those who came with the competition, because he then lacked full control over his ministry, his public enterprise, over his public institution. At the time, the Deputy Prime Minister told a syntagma who came with politics, and then she said, with politics, she must go. Now when you look at all this together, when you see how the government of Kukuriku did it in 2012 and when we remember what you said, which is that the election campaign changed the law that is returning to the same institute of public nomination in the state administration, when a tender for appointment of the supervisory board and administration is prescribed, then it should now be worth the syntagma of who came with the policy to stay after it. That would be by what fellow Stazic here wants to show us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2679	Thank you. The esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2680	Comrade Bačić, we are used to a fellow Stazic using for his humorous and this pay phone in the Assembly. However, these measures distort reality is something that should still be asked whether he has the right to behave in this way. They spoke as you said very often that it was a new principle of revolving doorrs, it's a new model in the state administration to justify how we took people who had neither experience nor knowledge nor professional equipment to do certain jobs. This was in the end line and proved by the schedule of many on duty, and it was something that needed to be endured. Today, not only do we go back to the question of the contests that we were defending back then. What I said in my presentation today is complicated by such a law procedure in which you still need to achieve a whole series of advances in order to come at all to the stage of the competition that you would choose people in companies. And all this when we shorten the story in Croatia lasts from 6 months to a year. Whose interest it is that for a year businesses do not work, or perhaps a more correct question whose interest is that those who were politically similar when they came to those positions remain in those positions because of the inability to choose people differently. And then when we add up two and two results, it's very clear. A colleague, Stazic, in the meantime, left but we'll calculate it in writing and show him why they did it the way they did it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2681	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2682	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You should not be surprised about Mr. Stazic, because the fact that they are making a regulation that otherwise addresses the issue of the selection of leading people in public enterprises shows that not only has the fifth time lost elections in the past four years but worse than that, they have lost face. This is what they warned themselves of in ancient times that they must not allow in any way. Because when you see all these stories of theirs today, we're really wondering what we've been watching for the past four years? Maybe the best diagnosis was given by a colleague sitting there on the other side of their ranks who recently said that when I see what they're saying and they're writing my colleagues from the SDP, I'd like to take a calm pill. Because let's remember what we've been doing for a full year in this House. The structure and technology of the government was created through numerous legislative proposals. So if they were bothered by some agency director they'd come with a bill of law and say this agency has five members of the board now, we'll pick it up to seven, and then we'll replace everyone and we'll put in our director. And so it was for every agency, for every office. They prescribed coefficients if you remember through legal proposals, raised wages. And today we're listening to their story going in a completely different direction. And they accuse themselves of setting up certain functions for their colleagues after the election. Remember recently that Zoran Milanovic himself said that someone was jumping around him as a squirrel until he solved the issue of the head of a clinic if I understood correctly. So let's remember that APIS where a man leans, so leans on the building and a big headline in the morning list, says they call me every day from the SDP to hire someone from the SDP. And so up to over 100 and some people in that APIS that we talk about today. And now we're listening to a whole other story. It's just that time has changed, and I can't make peace with them coming down from power, but I say so far in an unmarked way.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2683	Thank you. Replica reply, Your Honor, Mr. Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2684	I think colleague Stazic is counting on us to take a pill, so we're completely overwhelmed by amnesia and we've forgotten about the staffing and in this House. We haven't forgotten about HRT, we haven't forgotten about all those bodies in charge of control and monitoring, we haven't forgotten about the recent case of the Data Protection Agency if you remember when the government decided that people who are legally doing their jobs and come into conflict with another institution that doesn't work the same way are removed but their shift or motion for resolution is lost in the halls of parliament after being sent from the government and never comes to a plenary session for reasons that we don't know today. And the question is who runs these agencies and how they work. Today to call someone, the government at the beginning of its mandate who wants to settle the issue of state property management and these arguments and this sarcasm that our colleagues are talking about, it's really for sitting down and crying and maybe drinking a pill.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2685	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2686	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Mlakar should have political courage and perform as the SDP club performed today. So this is what we're talking about, the call for competitions, etc. Well, we've had it all in 2011. However, there was a change of government and a small bar and a lot of crocodiles and it was necessary to meet all these quickly. And you know what the result of these laws and political decisions is in the first two months of this government? Look, these are the shifts that happened. Anything with a name and a name, a date. So it was said with the policy they came with politics they would go away. So it was just one part. She tried to depolitize and professionalize the state administration, so instead of assistant ministers, we appointed directors of the administration through a public tender with the aim of really leading the state administration to be professionals who can work, who have experience, but then it was said no, these are political competitions, that is, that is, that is, not. We'll remove it and we'll name our men by decree. And then as the mandate neared its end, it was realized that you couldn't get the next term. How do you protect all your crocodiles in a little bar? Let's get the regulations, but the regulations are past the law. So the law on the handover of the authorities was passed because the authorities on their way couldn't plant the potassium of the authority that was coming. Both financially and legislative and any other. After all, a kind of gentlemanly relationship is sought between those who leave and those who come. But what happened here? In 1410, this government left us a minefield through the regulation on how DUUDI should name it. change all these political personnel, and I'm going to talk a little bit more about the rest in my individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2687	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2688	A fellow Shuker if it were all about that, we could still deal with it. The question is, what is everything we haven't seen yet? I'll tell you one example from the SDP practice, on 23 December 2015, one of the ministries is changing the internal order regulation for some of its agencies to expand... You want me to stop? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2689	Please report to the replica. Please report to the replica if you have anything to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2690	I don't know if anything personal bothers you or does the principle bother you? Can I have extra time or should I leave Mr. Hrela to him he probably knows what I was going to say? So the ministers on their departure when they've already confirmed their departure change the internal order in their ministries and agencies that belong to them, extend the circle of employees to hire all those who have entered the state administration in your phenomenal new revolving dorsa. Tomorrow, when someone under the right of supervision finds that it was illegal to ask you how you'll react to court disputes, damages to all those you've illegally hired and then deployed them through the state administration and found that these people could never have been employed there, and that's what the Constitutional Court has finally ordered for you. It's easy to talk from this position, you can throw as many of you as you want, and that's the only thing that has nothing to do with the law you're up for.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2691	Thank you. That's what we're done with. Following on behalf of the SDSS and Reformers Club, the Honorable Representative, Mr. Pupovac, will speak first.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2692	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I think that given how we started it would actually be time to further regulate the institute of replicas, so I'm going to suggest that those who speak on a particular agenda have the right to replicate themselves. That's how I'd like to do it, for example. I go to the bench and I tell my colleague Pupovac what you just said that's the way it is. That's about what it looks like we're doing. It doesn't make sense no matter who does it, but it's the devaluation of a noble institute that we've fought for years to have, but good. In that sense, it was my comment from the bench, not because I would comment on different opinions because I have a right to these opinions, and now let me say two words which is why I appeared on behalf of the club SDSS and Reformists. First this change is technically by its nature but it has two serious political messages. The first political message is that there is actually a possibility that the government will determine that the two vice-presidents are members of the Commission or of the Commission for State Property Management. This has a good side, given how the Government is currently functioning and what a system of mutual division of responsibilities and mutual control of the implementation of the common policy agreed between the key partners of the Patriot coalition and the Most. And at this point, it's hard for anyone reasonable to object to something when it's what it is, so I'm not going to object to it, or my club. The second implication is that we actually do this change because we don't have a vice-president for the economy. And how good this first one is, that's how bad this first one is. So, the leading component in the government, the Patriot coalition headed by HDZ, is repeatedly public and not public in the talks that we could have had with coalition representatives, say the economy or the economy are the heart of our government's policy. And this is a serious position for respect, for appreciation, because this country really needs a serious focus on economic and economic issues. But how are we going to have this serious focus if the government makes such a change of law because there's still no vice president for the economy? We're not going to consider the prime minister the one in charge of the economy, are we? He certainly has serious competences for both finance and the economy we will not question, but his powers as we know are much wider, much more important and for this reason we are asking the question whether it was better to leave the law as it was and choose a vice president for the economy that would strengthen the role of prime minister and that would enable what was drawn as a programme and that is an economy or economy as the heart of the programme to really be? And there's one more thing I want to say before my colleague Mr. Cacic takes his share of the time to speak for our club. The management of state property was indeed one of the crisis points of our economy. The crisis in that sense was not used in the way it was of general interest, in the way it imposed the legality of the economy and the legality of the economy. And what seems to me to me is that this government, and above all, I am thinking about colleagues from the Most, who have placed reforms at the heart of their programmes, and I am also thinking about the reforms of the state institutions, should pay particular attention to this and, in fact, to the state of property that the state has granted in recent years, for example. units of local self-government for economic zones, for other forms of economic promotion in certain environments. Are they still owned by these units of local self-government or have they gone into private hands? And under what circumstances? And on the other hand, it would be particularly important to see what it is and how and that this Parliament can get it... of available state property, such potential as can be used for economic recovery and for attracting investments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what we'd like. And for that, I repeat once again, you'd need a sectoral vice president. And I don't mean anything by it, it may not have arrived, but it would have been much better to wait another 15 days, and it had arrived to determine the Vice-President of the Government and we were exhausted by the Secretary of Defense, the Minister of Culture, so again with ideological topics, although many swore that in their programme and their policy there would be no "and" and now we're in the mud on these very topics. Well, colleagues, this was an opportunity to show that we wanted to get out of that mud. So much for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2693	The exhibition will continue with the esteemed representative Radimir Cacic on behalf of the SDSS and Reformist Club. ... It's one show on behalf of the club just two speakers. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yeah, but you can't be in the middle of a club exposure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] In the middle of the club, there are only two speakers.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2694	Okay. Dear gentlemen, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Of course all of us here are aware of that, I'm quite certain, many or some might not want to admit it, but we're all aware that this perpetum mobile opening of a conflict, accusing each other of being here by, I'm VI. The assembly here, and it's always been like that. And now it's like that again. Of course that's not good, the question is, of course, if we can avoid it, and when we're going to avoid a little bit of just reminding ourselves about those who were shrinking, he wasn't shrinking, why he was shrinking, when he was shrinking. Listen, everybody was cutting everything down and looking for ways to do it. Here and there at some point it was a little less present, I have to admit. Let's just say in 2000, when I became a minister, I didn't replace anyone. Letters and numbers, no one. All I did was, I solved 11 assistants and I named them the second day. Two of them later left on their own because there was a change of ministries and I must say they were excellent. They were mostly non-partisan, two of which were HDZ's. So there were times, sometimes something different, unfortunately things don't go the better way, they go the wrong way. At the moment that is mentioned here as good, when the directors of the administration were established as a waist, it was also one way to read, we don't have to argue that it is, but let's say it can be read as a way to keep it in those places as a profession, but you know when they never objected to how they treat parliament he said, listen to what you English are like by Gladstone, because they warned him that it would be good to act like Gladstone. The simple state is not yet mature, probably because everything is regulated that way and I think this institute as assistant minister we have right now is not bad. I think the minister, the deputy, is the only team that has to decide anyway. The profession is very important here, but politics has to decide, and it's probably going to keep this model here. In advance of judging, in advance of criticizing the future government, I don't think it just makes any sense, it doesn't make any sense. This law that we're dealing with here today is of course purely formality but the subject is terribly important, it's essential. What's the topic? State property management. In 2000, when I came to the ministry, I formed a record office, which never existed, for the record of state property. For a couple of months, I held people who were waving ears because then the coalition partner thought it would be too much authority in my ministry to have anything to do. In the end, they were excluded and placed under the state. That's how the story started. Look, in 2011, when I became head of the AUDI Management Board, the first thing I ordered was to give me information about this property. Two thousand, ten years has passed from ninety to two thousand to even think about it. In 2011, we had nothing. I asked them to give me property, no, after 10 years, 11. When did we get the property? We got 14 people's property, only fourteen. I want to say at what rate, all left, right, middle. What did we find out? According to EUROSTAT, we found it in the 14th and it was made public, DUDI published 31.4 billion euros. We're the fifth of state property to the richest state in Europe. Of course from the point of view of the contribution of state property we're last normal, no. Under one percent we contribute to GDP, we don't die being Norway where there is 11 and above, but for reasons that are known, no. The transformations were, were once again political games and conflicts, the AUDI changed to actually content in DUDI where they were strategic firms. This has been transformed into some sort of sales center. As a matter of fact, nothing has been made, not a single mention of a significant decision, not one of the assets has been made. The property tomorrow must be the key to the start of the Croatian economy. If we haven't figured that out, I don't know what we've figured out. Not only through sales, not only through concessions, not only through use in JPP, of course with the retention of all strategic resources, everything we agree on forest, water etc. but also through an extremely simple model that we also talked about, which we never did, which is that we just say 3% of that value that we have absolutely no desire or intention to sell, so just a billion euros in estimates say our banking systems are set aside into a collateral guarantee fund for investment projects in the economy. Because the biggest problem in Croatia is that we do not have the strength to meet the standards of the European and the world that our banks have, because they are European banks. And we can spend a hundred times through the CNB, offer cheap money through HBOR. There's no one to take it, because our economy doesn't fit the standard. Let's make him stronger. I left that proposal in the government, arranged it with all the major banks in Croatia. Everyone accepted it, nothing was done. Nothing! The Minister of Economy who inherited me, I explained nothing to the whole model! Someone's got to make decisions, right? So we don't have to sell, someone's gonna charge us with corruption, we did the wrong thing. We don't need anything, we just have to say this property is collateral up to 25%, a hundred times I've talked about it. We've lost nothing to all fail, because we've already pulled 25% of our investment just through VAT. They're not new models. Junckers formed the model the moment he came for the President of the European Commission. It's that Junckers model with the 15%. So there's no big brain. I personally applied this model to the financing of Ipsilon B 2003. We have received the award for the best financial project in Southeast Europe. Nothing, decades pass, no. People, this is a huge task. I'm glad that a serious man came to the head of Mr. Boban, no, whom note ben when I came I also kept as a deputy So, you need to appreciate quality people, open space. [[Subject Podolnjak: Your Honor, time is up.]] There is, of course, a special space for which HDZ has one good thing in the program that we put, And it's an industrial holding company. [[Downstairs: Thank you.]] I hope we can talk more about it. A huge topic, a very important topic and a terrible lever for development.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2695	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2696	Mr. Chairman, here it is after Mr. Chacic's inspired presentation this little deplaced talk about it. When I was already registered, Pupovac injured the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in two articles 229 and 238. During the debate, the representative shall not speak of a subject that is not subject to discussion, of his incursions or of other means of disrupting the speaker. And 229. "The session of the Parliament is chaired by the President of the Parliament." and since I appreciate his opinion on replicas and on the technique of working in the Assembly, he may, as a subject, propose to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, but he can neither hold a session nor give his legal interpretation of the institutes that we use in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2697	Thank you. I'll take it. In any case, the Institute of Replica should be seriously examined and in practice as far as I have had the opportunity to see there are uses that are not quite justified, but such a system you have agreed earlier and we see now there are certain shortcomings. But use in the same way on both sides of this assembly. And I think the esteemed representative Mr. Pupovac is aware that the violation of that provision was on both sides and that these replicas and responses to the replica were equally intense, so at least there is some balance. But I hope we change that institute, you're right. Thank you very much. The Republic has a distinguished representative, Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2698	You wonder and wonder if it would be better to leave the law as it is to appoint a Deputy Prime Minister for the Economy? Don't be surprised, please. Of course it would be more logical and better. But it can't be because of political reality. And the political reality is such that the Most rightly does not trust HDZ and cannot allow them to control it because they have a historical experience of management of HDZ state property and HDZ for unknown reasons does not trust MOST which is a new political option and which has not had the opportunity to show that they would manage state property themselves. The proof of what I'm saying is a debate on behalf of the HDZ Club. They did not speak a single word about the subject, and so the articles 229 and 228 became abundant. The Rules of Procedure, rather than in many replicas, have narrated and lamented for 10 minutes about it and because they will now have to appoint managers of public companies as public tender. I had to get out of the assembly. It moved me so much that I was afraid of crying and I just came back to listen to you because this was really hard for me to listen to, this violation of Rules of Procedure in Articles 229 and 228. But I get it, they've had feelings, they've been overcome by sadness, and they're desperate that they'll finally have to behave politely.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2699	Thank you. Replica's response, the esteemed representative, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2700	Mr. President, if you'll excuse the chairman, I'm stuck with this president, don't be angry, Mr. Vice President, but please punish me at the request of my colleague, Mr. Mlakar. I won't be able to leave the assembly unless I consume that punishment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2701	Now there's no president, and now you're on fire. Come on, don't. I wouldn't want to be the first to give a warning here. Come on, let's be parliamentary.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2702	I understand you... And that we don't have to take all the irony as irony, but this was really ironic on my part. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I know Stazic has a little more direct figures than I do, but... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2703	He's replicating Mr. Stazic, but he's looking at you. Now, I mean, allow it well. But he's officially replicating the gentleman... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2704	Okay, anyway, I'm not going to say that I agree with you fellow Trainer about what I was saying because that would be repeating what I've already said. So, I hope that this government will soon be fully composed and have, among other things, a vice-president for the economy because it is really necessary and important for the government to function. I also think it's extremely important if we want the quality of the debate here in this House to have at the level at which we should have it so that we don't refer the replicas to ourselves. And use the replicas at the same time as the institute. I'm looking at the minister because I think he listens to me unlike you who certainly don't. In other words, not only do we not guide ourselves but also use replicas for other topics as we have done throughout the day.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2705	If you agree to leave this topic to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system and to continue. We have the next line, distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2706	Thank you very much, Vice President. I am reacting to your part of the exposure in which you mentioned that management of state assets and assets was not the way you should once impose legality. That's something we all have to agree on. But what does it look like in practice? Here's an example. On 30.12.2015, the head of the State Office for Reconstruction and Residential Care, Mrs Mirela Stanić Popovic, on the one hand and his colleagues, and Pupovac, on the other hand, sign a contract on the financing of certain activities for the period from 1.01.2016 to 31.10.2016, knowing that we have 3-month financing temporarily, and then on 8th, the annex of the contract signed on 30.12. What should be financed? 8 coordinators who should represent parties in certain areas and those coordinators who would probably be without administrative procedure because it is clear to all of us that in the administrative procedure you must have the power of some parties to care for those who need to be taken care of in special areas. What does that million and 176 thousand cost mean? It should be given, so costs are wages, travel costs, communication costs and perhaps the most controversial provision of cost verification costs. That's what you signed, and you're telling us here that we should respect the law. You sign the contract the last day before the end of the new year, the Treasury closed a long time ago, somewhere around 5.12. usually closes, no payoffs.../The speaker doesn't understand. You make commitments as the government comes together or talks are held and you tell us how to respect legality and you sign such a contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2707	Thank you. Dear Representative Milorad Pupovac responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2708	Comrade Boric, that you read directly HR is clear to me and that directly HR is your revolver mudt and it is clear to me but what does the Assembly have to do with it and what must the facts have to do with it? And now I'm going to tell you something about these facts, and then maybe with a little less courage, you're going to move that revolver of yours called directly HR. First, the agreement between the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing is from the Serbian National Council and is the result of an international competition where the Serbian National Council is one of the partners resulting from the selection of international organisations that have made such a decision and thanks to a donor conference in the Sarajevo process if you know what it is? But since this is the topic, Mr. Vice President, which we are discussing and very strict, it is not a matter of state property and it is not a kind of insinuation at least that my colleague, Boric, is now trying to introduce in this debate instead of discussing the measure of things he is insinuating about some other topic he has no idea of which he is reading from directly.hr which is intended to insinuate but you will soon get asked questions and then by dragging the cat out a much more serious thing. Absolutely, absolutely, when you are already opening that topic by campaigning against a woman, leading one campaign against two Serbs, the only ones working in that ministry, that is, in this office, who are taking care of the restoration and return of the Serb refugees. And now you've found to run a campaign against them, shame on you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2709	This isn't a proper rhetoric, this shouldn't have been the end. Thank you. We're done with this piece. We are going to the next exhibition on behalf of the club, the distinguished representative Nancy Tyrelli, on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2710	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, let's try to get back to law. So, as far as the Labourist is concerned, we don't really object to these changes, political and technical changes to the Law on Management and the availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia. What makes me sad is the government's amendment to its own law, so the bill. It is something that I do not think should happen especially if the bill is in this form or in one single article. The fact is that we now have two vice presidents in Croatia, the first vice president of whom was appointed president of co-ordination for internal policy and state property management, and the second president of coordination for social activities and human rights. It is therefore understandable that from all these negotiations that are being conducted in the way they are being conducted and all of what we have heard today because of some kind of mutual, she would say mutual control of the Most and the Patriot coalition that in this commission indeed sits both vice presidents. As far as I'm concerned, and the club, we have no problems with that, and you decide who will sit and how it will be controlled, but I say I am saddened by this amendment of the government on your own proposal, which just means that you gave the proposal before the coalition partners eventually agreed who wants to sit in that committee and who wants to control who they want to control and then it has nothing to do with our presentations here, it has nothing to do with the parliamentary representatives, but it certainly has to do with Croatian citizens who are asking one again and the same question of what's happening? We've been listening here today to rhetoric as it's been employed over the past four years, in what way, whether with a contest, whether without a competition but not a problem for the past four years. The same way was employed all these years, so whoever was in power was hired in the same way. This regulation that we're going to choose the managers in a public tender, I welcome it. So we all advocate that state-owned assets and state-owned enterprises are managed by expert personnel. And I don't see anything controversial here. And I'm glad that regulation was passed and I'm glad we're finally going to start applying it. If the rulings are bothered by this regulation, I think they can change it or bring in another one where they define some other rules and choose these people in a different way. And that's your legitimate right. What worries me about the rhetoric about state property is next, we didn't even have a State Property Management Strategy until 2013. By 2013, we had no slight relationship, which makes us state property. We didn't even have a government property management plan until 2013. And now, all of a sudden, since 2013 since we brought the strategy to date, the second month of February 2016 we know how and how this state property should be managed. We are now in a situation where for the first time we have such a register of state property, so we didn't have that state property or listed, we didn't even have an inventory of what we have, which is ours, which is what we can and how we re-valorize, use it in economic development and so on. So we can't and we can't say that nothing was done right because that way we don't go forward, we're just going back. Let's face it, in these days of 2013, if anything else started to seriously think about state property and we started to seriously list it. And if nothing else, I guess we'll get to the point where we have that, that and that, and now we're going to see how we're going to do it, that's how we're going to rule it. The second thing that concerns me is the following, the State Property Management Plan is brought to 31 October of the current year for the following year. DUDI and the government adopted him, so on DUDI's proposal. DUDI had a draft state property management plan for 2016 at a public hearing. Therefore, interested bodies as well as natural, legal persons were manifested. However, the government did not adopt the 2016 state property management programme, because we had parliamentary elections, the second government came, etc. DUDI today says they have again given state administration authorities, hence to interested authorities to show a 99.5% similar proposal for a state property management plan. And he is no longer in public debate for all but the proposal is a plan only among the ministries. I personally think it is bad and it is not good because this state property is the property of every citizen of the Republic of Croatia. Although the first proposal was held in public debate and it should have been the same way as the proposal, because only in this way can the Ministry and the Government say that they have met all those standards that need to be met by more and more owners of state property, which are citizens. Whether the proposal for a state-owned management plan has remained the same or has changed in the smallest part. If this is not at the public debate and if this plan, and you will probably bring it in as I hear from DUDI by the end of the 3rd month, or adopt, the government will adopt such a plan of state property management, the question is therefore the following. In this plan of state, availability and sales, the availability of state assets says that in 2016, therefore, property will be managed in value to sell, which capitalises, which, somewhere worth 236 seems to me, 236 million kuna. Today, the prime minister is speaking at a cabinet meeting about 500 million kuna revenues for the state budget. So what's very important is that we see what makes a certain difference from what the citizens knew so far that they will be selling and revenue and that makes a difference from today to what the prime minister is now announcing. The report on the implementation of last year's plan, given the time I won't talk about it, but so the three basic key documents that we have, it turns out now that we almost respect none of them. That's not good. If we want to speak concretely and be honest then let us first be honest in this and praise no matter who did it, in which way he did, for which he did, let us commend the one who decided to make a strategy of state property management, for the first time in Croatia's history. State property was managed non-transparently, it was done with what was done and it's unserious now to call anyone in this way and not to admit that we're at least going into something that leads if there's nothing else in the inventory list of what we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2711	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2712	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Tyrelli, you said it wasn't good to say that it wasn't well managed by state property, then why don't I commend what's good and that strategy has been brought. The person who has read the State Property Management Strategy can call it all, by any name but by no means a State Property Management Strategy because it does not involve, nor does it contain a single sentence on how to manage state assets. There's not a single principle in state property management. There's nothing. It's a document to be drawn up, lists of some kind of composition that doesn't even fit the facts. And the State Office for State Property Management received an unfavourable opinion from the State Audit. You are now asking to boast something that has received a negative opinion from the State Audit Office, which says: "That the stock records and shares for 50 companies and other legal persons managed by DUDI worth 16.6 billion kunas are smaller than in the register of state property and central... "to the depositary society." 16 billion and 600 million kunas are the accounting records. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You're talking about how he manages to do great. Accounting operations incorrectly presented data in financial reports, the findings of the State Audit. The expenditure on intellectual services has been double-crossed legally allowed by more than 2% of total salary expenditure. They moved to 4.1 with 406,000 kuna for intellectual services. Without the application of the prescribed procurement procedures, assets were purchased on Xavier, the business space in Xavier and electricity. Where'd they go? Where are the missing properties and facilities that DUDI alienated and have no records at all. [[Intruder Dolnjak: Timed out.]] Kupar Concession That's transparent? [[Downstairs: All right.]] It gave a company that didn't exist at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2713	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2714	Thank you, Vice President. Ma colleague Maric, I think we all already know this State Audit report as far as DUDI is concerned, most of all, thanks to you, and you have the right. And here I am, we're on the same track. So, you should say what's wrong. But I'm trying to say one thing. So this is the State Audit report on DUDI on certain irregularities. But I keep asking the question does that mean that until the 2014 State Audit report, that's how it was for this DUDI, was there anything wrong with the state property before that? Is everything okay with the Privatisation Fund? Was it managed in a good way by state property? We can now DUDI's curtain here on Mark's square let Pedro hang and talk about how the state property is run badly, because the State Audit report on state property management for DUDI is unfavourable. But the question is all the time whether our mismanagement of state assets has been going on since 2014 or whether we have been mismanagement of state assets in some long history since that 2014 and since our unfortunate privatisation. That's what I say all the time. It's not good and it's not good to focus on just one year on me, on you, on Cacic, on Hrelj, on anyone, and we say it's bad, and it's a general good, and it's about things that we all have to take care of. Because it's not enough to say that last year someone was doing something bad, and we didn't do it in any way last year, and we warned that someone was doing it wrong. That means we're as bad as that someone we let do bad. That's all I'm trying not to focus on for one year, because state property hasn't been since 2014. We've been running state property for a lot, a lot longer, and unfortunately, we've run bad all these years.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2715	Thank you. We're moving on to the last show on behalf of the club. What? Who's got the replica? ... It was a courteous conversation, not a replica. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2716	All right. Here's two words. Once again until 2000, we didn't want to know what we had, because it was much better not to know. Much better. Yeah. Until 2011, something was trying to write down, but nothing was listed. Then in 2011, we gave us an express order to choose to give me this story immediately, and I mean both hands and feet, to hire whoever they wanted, and it lasted to fourteen. Then we're kind of innate, no. And now the review comes and now the final review has something to watch. Look, she didn't have anything to look at until then, did she? And look and say it's no good, no, it doesn't agree with EUROSTAT but it's different. Of course I agree with my colleague Maric. It's not even a "s" of a strategy, it has nothing to do with strategy, nor criteria, nor ideas, nothing! If it had even made sense, a man would have said something, okay. We made this register finally some kind of, good, bad, EUROSTAT one, our audit another, but we have some records, no. We don't have any ideas what to do. The only idea of DUDI was not to do anything, the only idea of DUDI was not to make any decision and in that sense I disagree with Maric, because I am absolutely convinced that they did nothing wrong except that everything was wrong. They didn't do anything wrong in the sense that they made a decision that someone stole something, something darkened, something. No, they just haven't made any decisions. You of DUDI couldn't have come with a schmeister. You wouldn't have gotten a DUDI decision. It's DUDI's problem, not that they were something, but they weren't doing anything. [[Downstairs: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2717	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2718	Well, you're right, I think we can put it all together in one sentence, but not just since 2002 when you mentioned that we were, that we'd be luckiest if we didn't know what we had. I think we can do the same thing today to be happy that we don't know what we're doing because then that means we're not even responsible for it. And I think that's where it all lies. We brought the strategy to this Croatian Assembly. We had the law and that law has three key documents, a strategy, a plan and an execution. We had a law and no one was doing anything. So today we heard I think in the previous debate whatever strategy is better than any strategy. You don't have a colleague, Chacic. I'm answering your line now. Therefore, when we made that strategy in the Parliament if it was bad, and I also say it's bad because it's written so that I would like to say form, but that doesn't mean that DUDI is guilty, only now, of poor governance of state property and decision-making. That's not true. But it's been all the time... DUDI's guilty but you said yourself now at least we have something to control. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So far, we've had nothing to control. And that's why this kind of rhetoric when we say we have a right and we have arguments right now that's exactly what it says in 2014 and the last government mismanaged the property. Because before, we didn't know if it was bad or good because we couldn't control a document that could show it to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2719	Thank you. Otherwise, the topic of the agenda is this change of law and change in the composition of the commission, and in fact 90% of the time none of the speakers talked about it. That's it. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HNS, distinguished representative Milorad Batinić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2720	My colleagues. I believe that if this technical change were essentially technical, there would be no government amendment. Namely, why? Independently, the HNS Club does not see any reason not to support it for any more reason, simply so as not to slow down certain processes that this commission must do and ultimately not to dispute the government's work as a whole. Namely, why? Otherwise, if it hadn't been for that amendment to the government, I believe that the debate wouldn't have gone so far, I wouldn't have had a political denominator in such a dimension, but unfortunately I have to look back, but very briefly. More or less clear, I will again manifest myself as I am in the Law on Strategic Investment Projects, and I believe that the Government Act will make these our proposals, our suggestions to consider, to really appoint the Vice-President of the Government, the person in charge of the economy but this economic part of the segment. So, strategic investment projects and state property management. Why does this have one more political dimension? We have witnessed the long process of constitution after the parliamentary elections itself, and now the government's agreement has not been completed. A certain rhetoric within the position means the Patriot coalition and MOST's key word which, I think I read well, Mr. Petrov said it was a consensus. Yeah, I always advocate a consensus where he's possible. So when you go to a bit of analysis to do who all the members of the commission are, so when you look at the functions of ministers, one from MOST, one from HDZ etc., it was not my intention, because the government should function as a whole in the interest of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, then it is now being read even though the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Petrov, is now a member of this commission that again the Patriot coalition, looking at the positional majority. Will the keyword be a consensus again? If the key word will be a consensus, I fear the functioning of not only the commission but also the implementation of certain plans that he presented to us here and then the Prime Minister and now Prime Minister Mr. Oreshkovic. So here I will read the explanation of our transformers and in the third point says focus on strategic investment, privatisation of non-strategic companies or assets. Will there be a key word for consensus, or will consensus be possible? I doubt it. Furthermore, in the follow-up to the presentation, one timetable for the programme's activities presented to us by President Oreskovic, and in the second pillar he writes strategic investments, so he says to activate dead capital, an estimate of 500m euros. Great. And ultimately more efficient management of public enterprises. Great. For 2017, of course, I don't read it that way, but this is how it's read in 2016. And triggering dead capital, or let's say assets that are not in function and more efficient public sector governance. And then in 2017, what is also related to property, related to this property tax law that is not in office. Did that mean state property, did that mean state property, is that where the state should pay taxes? Then it's an enormous income, but to whom? I won't be free, but you'll forgive me from hollow to empty. There's no mention of anything further. I will again return to Article 45(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Work adopted by the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the Management of Strategic Trade Companies. I'd like to believe, I believe that the rest of you here are going to bring this Rules of Procedure, but I'm still asking, that's what I'm asking both my colleagues and my colleagues from MOST and my colleagues from the Patriot coalition because it's up to you that this commission is going to work whether the consensus is going to be decisive? I'm not convinced, nor are we at the HNS club convinced it can work that way. I will also take a very short look at the history of state property management and the strategy on which I can partly agree that it may not be as a whole as a strategy, however, if we look at the integrated and state property management strategy teaching the Law on State Property Management, and what it does, which is followed by the management plan, then we get one whole. The methodological strategy is not based on established methodologies. The strategy defines objectives, the strategy defines priorities and measures. Now, the strategy in the text section is, but the law, the management plan, which is why if we look at the integrally there is left space and there I am giving for every government's right to bring a management plan of state property that would according to us at the HNS, and we will go with that proposal or ministers I believe that you will go to certain adjustments and this part of the law not because it is not good, for me it is a good, but certainly new time, new circumstances, a new situation on the market primarily on the European market simply initiates certain corrections for the better. In order for the government of the Republic of Croatia, and counterpart Tyrelli to speak of this, this report should be sent every year until we say the end of the first quarter of the property management report in this representative body. And in the end, not to mention, a lot is said, as I said the HNS introductory club will support but I say once again to colleagues and colleagues from MOST and the Patriot coalition, suggest to your vice-presidents the Government, because some times believe me, you won't be able to agree on a consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2721	Thank you. Right on line, distinguished representative Radimir Cacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2722	My colleague Batinic reminded me now that he was talking about the Management Plan strategy for one thing that has already been slightly opened here in one way that has caused unfortunately polemic inappropriate even. We have and I see this fellow and long-time friend of Mr. Mayor of Obrovec 4,5 thousand families from 95th to today, I think I met with this topic in 2000, living in non-owned facilities, not owners, which are state property and which are once exception to the law that was passed on the assignments of these objects to everyone other than Obrovac, Benkovac, Petrinja, Glini, so urban environments. So the Croats from Bosnia, the Croatians from Vojvodina who live in state facilities have no right, no authority whatsoever, that's not their property. It's everyone else's day, and even the underprivilegedness would be theirs. I can't solve energy efficiency. These are people who are extensively valued simply because the Croatian state in managing its assets of these 28 thousand buildings and apartments it manages in these 4.5 did not make a decision, but excluded them. I just want to say how important this management of state property in some segments that we don't even notice is to the citizens of this country. Let's start making some decisions. So it's an important topic. For formal reasons, it's open here today, I agree, but it's essential.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2723	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Milorad Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2724	Thank you. I agree with my colleague, Chacic. Of course, that is why, in my debate, I have highlighted the issue of the key words of consensus, political agreement because governance of state property as well as other decisions is primarily a political decision that the government must make. I don't know about this problem, I don't know the whole problem, the whole point. I suppose there is, that there is not only a key law on state property, that there are some other laws that tang this problem, but I agree, and that I sought to highlight it through my debate that there should be strength, determination but also need to know what is wanted and then to make a political decision. So I doubt this functioning of this committee based on the so far and much, where it was much simpler maybe to agree on some things about how the commission would function.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2725	Thank you. The Republic has a distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2726	Thank you very much. Comrade Batinić, you have repeatedly insisted on consensus. But how to achieve the consensus that is so necessary if it is irrational or illogical that arises. But in order not to just talk about irregularities in DUDI, a typical example, a couple of excellence examples of attitudes to state property represents, here we are going to go back a few dozen years back to university so-called. The hospital in Blato down there. It's a couple of excellent examples of a relationship to a state property that's still staring abandoned today, torn down like it was in Vukovar in '92. It's located. But you were talking about the strategy that she's formal, she's not even formally satisfying. It's just a term that pleases her. The strategy implies a course of action in order to achieve the stated objective. There is no defined treatment and what is even worse has no goal, no objective is set, no tactics to determine how to achieve this goal that implies and strategy. No criteria, no standards, no principles. It therefore does not satisfy even formally. But I'd also look back on my colleague, Cacic, who said that DUDI wasn't making any decisions, that it was the biggest damage. I agree that the decisions should be made by colleague Cacic. But unfortunately, DUDI was making decisions, but the wrong ones. Would you like to make a decision on a concession to the Coopers the last day before the meeting, before the parliamentary elections of the company for 99 years that does not exist, which is registered 3 months after the opening of the tender and there are no employees? And neither the founder of the company has any employees nor has any income from any other company. Would you do that? Well, you wouldn't. Would you alienate the property from DUDI without recording the bookkeeping? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2727	Here, Mr. Chacic certainly won't be able to answer this question for you today, here, I'll conclude. The answer to the replica, you asked the wrong person The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Milorad Batinić. [[Intruder Maric: No, I didn't.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2728	Thank you, Vice President. Namely, my colleague Marić, if you followed closely, means I in my debate when I mentioned the word consensus, he is the device here desirable, but I did not insist on consensus. And I was trying to explain exactly with a position within the Commission of Political Options trust me personally that consensus will not be possible. That we're clear. It's a matter of attitude and political decisions. When you said that the strategy was not applicable I tried to say through the debate how I see the strategy, of course as a strategic document if we integrally view it with the Law on Strategic Investment Projects and Investments in Assets, stop the Property Management Act and if we look at the Governing Programme, then it's a strategy. But the strategy itself isn't. And that's what I also mentioned, so the basic elements are gone, targets, priorities, measures. But they're contained in the law and in the government program. Once again, I'm not the one who insists on consensus because I know it's impossible to bring it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2729	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The word has a esteemed representative, Ivan Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2730	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, after all day I would like to look back on this bill, that is, state property management policy in Croatia at all. I've already talked more than once about the Energy Strategy that's been missed and here we have a State Property Management Strategy that we see colleagues criticizing. What do you say, too, about the finding of a state audit that gave an unsatisfactory assessment to the State Office for State Property Management? Here's to mention one case that actually just confirms everything we've heard here, which is that it's a single institution that works irresponsiblely, which works non-transparently, which doesn't answer the questions and just doesn't care. Her core job is to manage state property worth 30 billion euros, she doesn't do it, and you can't force her to give you an answer and you can't force her to do what she's supposed to do. Maybe there's no other solution but to tear that whole crew out of that state office, toss it out, to tear it down and work it over again, it's the only way we seem to be able to do some results. I remember one case, if I'm not mistaken from 2013 when a local power plant here in Zagreb on Trnje usurped a country-based particle, means state property and started building a parking lot there. In addition to that particle, he harassed the neighbors, knocked down some fences, trees, etc. However, when I reported it then AUDIO was, AUDIO, located on Vrbik, on several occasions they simply did not respond to our recordings, not to our memos or anything else that was done. Maybe they didn't even know it was state property, they didn't want to react. And on the same congratulatory parking lot, you know what's 50 meters away from that particle? It's a particle on which the Palace of Justice was built. 7-story building plus ground floor. And on that particle where the parking lot was built against the legal, against everything, that I don't list further, the judges, lawyers, state lawyers parked their vehicles for years, never responding to such correspondence, court proceedings and generally for DUDI's sake, then AUDI, which happens 50m from their offices, from their courtrooms. So much for the Croatian judiciary and so much for the mara and all of us and the state property agency. I therefore recommend that the Government punish strictly all those who have so far done so by no means, I wanted to say sloppyly, but have not managed this valuable resource. If you go to the DUDI site, you will find information that means it is entered into the register on 103855 pages that means over a million properties or on each page 10 real estates introduced. So there's over a million properties out of it about 27,000 residential buildings. If I'm not mistaken, there's about 20 grand of it. Imagine this huge property that we didn't even know about until some year or we have it or we don't have it, so maybe somebody grabbed it, and he wrote it on himself as well as this parking lot. We have no idea. And let us remember, on the other hand, 4000 families in Croatia, our citizens, who had a higher household right to their successor who had been sold in '96. years, i.e. They've suspended their rent rights, now they're protected tenants. Remember what happened then. The state is the former SR Croatia shared the property as it shared and now the Republic of Croatia has an obligation to settle owners or owners already on which property. But she didn't do it in 20 years. And now the owners work the owners, the owners. Yeah, you heard right, there's all kinds of legal absurdities in housing law. And 4,000 Croatian families are wondering every day whether tomorrow whoever he is 70 years ago will be able to come down tomorrow, and all because the state has not been able to settle 4000 people in 20 years for about 4,000 if so much real estate. Of course, since we don't even know what these properties are, many of them are definitely going down. Let's just remember the military. So we have time and heart to track how our grass grows, how rats reproduce in these properties, and on the other hand our citizens end up on the street, they have nowhere to live, they can neither buy it, sell it, rent it or anything else. Let's also remember when it comes to the management of state property that that predecessor of DUUDI means DUUDI, AUDIO and when you go further into the past it's that unfortunate Privatisation Fund. What was that all about? I'll remember, now it's an opportunity. So 7.3. George Gavrilovic has in Washington arbitration, arbitration about what happened in '91. A year. And what happened? It happened that the factory Gavrilović and half of Petrinja, so many properties were sold to Mr. Gavrilović for the miserable 3 million marks of that time, and the value was at least 20 times higher at that time, not to say that everything happened during the occupation of Petrinja etc. It's just one of a series of examples of how at that time wakes up why a hand and a hat like that shared property all over the place. And today we feel the consequences. Here's the arbitration I say in a few weeks, strenuous workers. I'll talk about this more. Let us also remember Mr. Leon Sulic, who was salt on the early last days pardoned by the President of the Republic. Come on, that dealer and the guy who financed the campaign, come on, it's the same wicked thing that's hard. But this Sulic is the same man from the privatisation story who was convicted and spent some time in prison now going to pardon. It means a little of those tycoon-like things that our own justice system managed to shut them down. And what little punishment they got now we'll go pardon it. And that's to my colleague from the former campaign president, Mrs Grabar-Kitarovic, I'll never really forgive. It's a difficult failure both for the morale of this people and for the future of all of us who should somehow live on this property. Now let me go back to maybe the very heart of the topic. That's a bill of law. Yes, this is a technical political proposal. He's not the president of the economy, he's the vice president. This, in any case, is the right and legitimate right of the ruling coalition, so that in principle the Living Wall has no objection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2731	Thank you. And the last individual debate, the distinguished representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2732	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. So you see how important the subject is, and look at how many of them are in the assembly. But there's something I have to say here when DUDI says it's all united. So where did DUDI get the information if it didn't exist anywhere? Well, you didn't suck people out of their fingers and get it into the terminal. So that property records existed. However, we all forget why AUDI was founded, why DUUDI was founded, that in one place the data on the property of the state is concentrated both the value of the companies and the value of the land together. And DUUDI just put it on the computer and said most of that property is unfortunately not in land books just as most of the property of Croatian citizens is not in land books. That's the facts. Just enough not to make a name out of something, just like it's a fama about a vice president for the economy. See colleagues and colleagues of the State Property Management Act adopted in 7 months 2013, entered into force on 30.7.2013. There's a vice president for the economy. In this law, Article 17 states that closer criteria for the implementation of a public tender for the appointment of members and presidents of the management of companies and other legal persons of strategic and special interest to the Republic of Croatia and other issues in this respect are laid down by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Now look, the government has a vice president for the economy, the DUDI so terribly cares about this property and you know when a regulation is made, the regulation is made when it is known that this government is coming. So 2.5 years after the law was passed. So much for that, about the form of who's where, who's what. If someone doesn't work, it can be that I don't know what of it doesn't have any use. And now we're in a place to do these two points at a level as technical as they are, look how much we're discussing. Minister Panenic has been here for almost eight hours. We've been discussing two technical provisions for eight hours to try to convince something else with political sarcasm and I don't know what to do. Today, however, we are discussing a topic that may be one of the key factors for increased economic growth in Croatia tomorrow, to be more employees and not to reduce public debt, because as long as we have a deficit, we will not reduce it but rather slow down the growth of public debt. And today, if we were in this assembly discussing these three things, then I'd say we're responsible people. But we haven't discussed it, and we're irresponsible because you can't if you have this much property and you haven't activated it, so you can't expect it if you don't have any other potential, if your economy structure is such that you don't have virtually, if your credit rating is such that virtually 95% of them can't be borrowed and if you won't activate the potentials you have at hand, so how do you think the Croatian economy will start? And the other thing, what we all forget and it's a huge property of the Croatian Army where finally someone strategic must say this is military perspective, this is not military perspective and it's an property that is located in tremendously attractive places. I remember when we tried to talk from the president's office there in 2004, it was not possible to hear about it. So tell me, isn't it nicer in the river today that we have that beautiful campus instead of a military camp on the Trieste which was, which was, which was, like, the center of town? Or God forbid it was the same in Zagreb at Borongai. But we don't talk about it, we don't talk about it as potentials. Well, the Coopers didn't stand this year because someone didn't want to call them because the army had a cap on it. And as long as the military didn't make a decision that it was a militaryly inspective industry, space, the facilities couldn't be discussed. We, instead of talking about it today, are helping the minister even though it is in his portfolio, but the DUUDs are pretty independent in which direction we go about what we're talking about today, is that this one or that one. But colleagues and colleagues this regulation as it is written is definitely a minefield to the new government, definitely. Read it and you will see that in practice the government will change companies that are unhappy, with people how they manage businesses takes them months and months to do it. And you know what the former government did even though all these people were elected to a public competition? She changed the law, mocked them all, brought her people, then Europe slapped them about why they did it because it was contrary to the EU directive, so this law was passed in 2013 but no sublegal acts were adopted. And it's no wonder that this guy in DUUDI didn't do anything without telling my colleagues and colleagues we've all forgotten about another institution that has its employees, which we pay, which is even free and tax-free, which has its own income, which is the Center for restructuring and sales. No one mentioned him here today practically. And just like this strategic investment bill passed that restructuring centre and will be sold by companies, this, which, unfortunately, is almost a dead letter on paper. And we will definitely have to discuss this matter, Mr. Minister, in this House but in a very different way. First of all, to remove the familiarity from what Croatia has and simply to see the potentials of Croatia, and why does not everyone who looks at us outside view us as someone who is risky? It is precisely because of this great property and potential that Croatia has in its possession. However, if we are going to discuss this property in this way and we are not going to talk about this to a colleague of Sincic what you're saying, this great property can be used to solve a lot of social problems because it's simply in the hands of the state, so the state has to run social policy. And why isn't he doing that? Well, that's because we're discussing it the way we discuss it in the Parliament. And that's the key problem. We can politicize here today as much as we want and accuse ourselves, but DUUDI was founded solely because of the fact that all the property is finally concentrated in one place and that it is seen in one place what the state has. Well, we used to be when local self-government units were given that great country for these entrepreneurial zones, so you have almost 300 entrepreneurial zones formed in Croatia. How many of them are active today, it all depends on people at local level who have felt certain things, started certain projects, and practically when you look at Dugopolje, Stankovce, it's on a stone growing entrepreneurial zone or somewhere else, you want to go to Virovitica and look at that part. But I'm telling me today instead of discussing it, or should we just say, I just support it or don't support this technical change where we went? Convince each other one way or another. But I repeat, and I will end up without the activation of state property there will be no more significant economic growth, there will be no more significant employment and there will be no more significant slowdown of public debt. And we'll talk about it all when the state budget comes in here for two weeks on the benches, so when we talk about the spending side and when we talk about the revenue side and we can't move that revenue side by a millimeter without significant economic growth, and there's no tax increase in madness, because there's simply no room. And that's why I volunteered for this debate to try to point in a slightly different direction, but I'm the last one, so I won't get a chance to do that, but everything that happened before simply points to it. I'm sorry the SDP club went to a sarcastic debate, and they're the ones who said, you came in with politics, you left with politics. And it was so, they brought such an assessment, it's their political assessment but to argue in a sarcastic way, the government today is what it is. Someone tell me what powers Minister Grcic had over Minister Vrdoljak? What authority do we have on Minister Jakovina? What authority did the Greek minister have over Hajdas Doncic, over Maras? Nothing, but he was vice president for the economy. He led only that coordination but they acted completely on their own. So, let's not make any mistakes. I had the opportunity to be with these people at common meetings, so I saw that the Greek boy had no power over them, that they were difficult fellows. But today we wanted to show it here these two vice presidents are no good, and ours were geniuses, and time will show if people who are able to listen and listen are worth more than people who make noises?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2733	Thank you. Thank you. That's what we're done with the debates. Is it staying for the end of Mr. Minister's final address? Yeah. Mr. Minister Paninic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2734	Mr. Vice President, the esteemed parliamentary deputies and MPs here is counsel Shuker he has mentioned 8 hours here, it is my pleasure 8 hours if I know that this debate can positively change something that we discussed today. I have this particular article here, which clearly states how strategic companies are managed. These are companies, not all very successful, some very burdensome, this is the time when their final financial results are due to come to the supervisory boards, they should also be organised very soon. Who will bring, who will adopt those final reports where somewhere we have supervisory boards who are not complete, who are crying out the same thing from the Minister of Resorship and me, and also from the DUDI that members are finally appointed. It clearly states here that this article defines the effective management of companies and other legal entities as a committee and is indicated who they are. And this particular item where it stands to propose to the Government of the Republic of Croatia members of the Supervisory Board and the Management Board, it is important at this point. And you saw for yourself and for investments that are strategic for Croatia. If HEP is one of those companies to whom the term of office stands and they are one of the main holders of strategic investment, then it is clear and important why it was necessary to change quickly and efficiently precisely these two called them technical ones, but I would say that they are important if they are companies that can't wait to change the laws more significantly. So I'm going to ask this esteemed home that and just when the vote comes you have in mind that right now it's about people who are employed there, about the administrations that require encouragement, about the commission that needs to make decisions, about the DUDI which, both to the CERRP and everyone who makes it, that they should have the support of this body, and that I'm expected to make it all together successfully as a resolution minister. And for that, it's not like it's eight o'clock, if it takes 88 hours, but it needs to be solved very quickly this month already. I thank all those who participated in the debate, and I will also appreciate and respect everything discussed in the future drafts of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2735	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 p.m. with an accurate report on the effectiveness of the funding of NGOs programmes and institutions of national minorities-the Council for National Minorities. Thank you and good-bye to tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-17-0.u2736	The next item is the final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Management and Property of Property owned by the Republic of Croatia, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.4. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. Prior to the start of the debate, the Government submitted amendments that became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 202. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Economy, I am voting on the final proposal of the Law amending the Law on the Management and Property of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. 108 votes for, 7 abstentions and 2 against. I find that most votes have been passed by the Law amending the Law on the Management and Property of the Republic of Croatia. Good morning, good morning to all, here we will begin as we have announced with the following point: - Report on the effectiveness of the funding of NGOs and national minority institutions – National Minority Council; Reporter is State Audit Office, based on Article 9. The State Audit Office Act. The materials are published on the official website of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the report at the session. Does the president of the applicant want to further explain the report? Yeah. Please welcome the Honorable Chief State Auditor Mr Ivan Klešić. Here you go.
