ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u7305	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the SDP club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break. We would like to address the public in this turbulent political situation that is ruling in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u7306	Thank you very much. The next is Honorable Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u7307	Dear Mr. President, on behalf of the Croatian Party of Retired Party Club and the Independent List of Stipe Petrina, I request a 10-minute break in order to address the Croatian public about another absurdity in a Croatian society called stricter training over pensioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u7308	Thank you. Dear representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u7309	Dear President, on behalf of the Croatian Labourists, I am looking for a break of 10 minutes related to the country's current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u7310	Okay. Dear Representative Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u7311	Dear Mr. President, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party of the Liberal Democrats, I am also looking for a 10-minute break so that we can express our views on the current political moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u7312	Thank you very much. The Honorable Representative of the Spika.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u7313	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, we are looking for a 10 minute break on behalf of Club Milan Bandić 365 Party of Labour and Solidarity, Block of Retired People together, etc., that I am now not counting on the issue for half an hour, but rather on proposals, therefore the current political situation in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u7314	General political situation, not pensioners, okay. If so, is that all? Honorable representative of the Juhas.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u7315	On behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, I request a 10-minute recess on the issue of student transportation.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u7316	Okay. He's transporting a student if I've heard correctly. Okay, if it's okay with you, I suggest we agree right away to group them so that first they're these, this block to say the general political situation and then the pensioners and the transportation of students. If that's okay with you, if nobody's against it. Okay, then I'll see you at 9.50. Here, thank you very much. It's 9:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.00 HOURS]] I can see that there are certain changes, so on behalf of the SDP club, the distinguished representative of Peja Grbin will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u7318	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I will begin my presentation today with an invitation for all of us in the Parliament to finish this ugly story, to disband the 8th Assembly of the Croatian Assembly and to go to elections where we will allow those who are citizens of the Republic of Croatia to decide what will happen to this country in the future. And I'll continue with one question. I'll ask you, from the ruling coalition, are you at least a little uncomfortable? Are you at least a little embarrassed by this mess, because of this unhappiness and that this disgrace you have afforded all of us citizens of the Republic of Croatia? A shame in which the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia demands the resignation of his two vice presidents. In which one Deputy Prime Minister requests the resignation of the second Deputy Prime Minister and eventually one of them initiates the recall procedure of the Prime Minister, who until yesterday was forged into the stars and boasted that he had brought him himself. Dear colleagues in power, are you at least a little embarrassed? Are you at least a little embarrassed by the fact that we are being threatened by the withdrawal of money from EU funds for projects in education, for projects in environmental protection and waste management? Are you at least a little embarrassed by the fact that one minister in the government of the Republic of Croatia has negotiated a 800m-euro project while another minister in the government of the Republic of Croatia behind his back without saying anything to him brings out spatial plans that make the project impossible? Are you uncomfortable with the fact that you are doing everything you can to stop the most important reform in these 25 years of Croatian independence, the curical reform? Your colleagues from HDZ, because this is first and foremost yours, are you embarrassed that you told the Prime Minister until yesterday that he is a top professional, that he is one of the best-ranking business people in the world and that he is an extraordinary solution? Are you embarrassed that you objected when we told you that it was a person who had no electoral legitimacy and begged you not to do this experiment with people who knew nothing about politics? Did it make you uncomfortable that today for this same person you were making in the stars yesterday, you're saying that this is a matter and I quote you about an irrational man straying into politics, about a person who deals with humanizing in a repressive apparatus? And imagine the person who tried to introduce an office dictatorship with the help of the repressive system. Are you at least a little embarrassed about that? A colleague of the government, are you uncomfortable turning Croatia into a political laboratory in the last six months for your experimentation? If because of at least one of these things I was talking about, at least a shred of awkwardness, stop this, let's disband the Croatian Parliament, let's go to the elections. Stop this experiment, say it's over and let us stop embarrassing the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u7319	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the Croatian Labourists, the distinguished representative, Nancy Tyrelli, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u7320	Thank you, Mr. President. Here is a clue to this and similar thinking this morning, the proposal for a decision to dissolve the Croatian Parliament in order to hold early elections sent by Croatian Labourists went into the parliamentary procedure. The reason is that in the past few months, especially in recent weeks, the Croatian public has witnessed a failed experiment of coalition cooperation between HDZ and MOST, in which, due to antagonism and disagreement, only the leader of the two parties Tomislav and Karamark and God Petrov, the benefit of the Republic of Croatia is secondly placed. Thus, citizens without their own guilt became victims of false promises of economic, social and moral reforms. In reality, the current government of the Republic of Croatia does not function since its key actors, first Vice President Karamarko and Vice President Petrov, as well as their parties are obviously unable to achieve quality cooperation or dialogue or to find a solution that would lead to the stabilisation and functioning of the current government. It is therefore legitimate to assume that the national priorities of the entire Republic of Croatia, all its citizens, institutions and economies have less weight than the fact that Karamarko and Petrov are in conflict. HDZ and MOST are obviously unable to resolve open issues in the best interests of Croatian citizens, and this is primarily the legal and political responsibility of the first Vice-President of Karamark regarding his possible conflict of interest in the case of INA MOL. Although the entire public is focused on the political and moral responsibility of the first Vice-President of Karamark, it would be really unfair to forget the question of the responsibility of God Petrova, who promised us reforms only a few months ago and only reforms and the only reform he contributed to was reforming normality in this chaos in which we are today. When the government doesn't know, it doesn't want or can't take responsibility, it's in the Parliament. I think at this point, the responsibility of all of us together lies in the fact that we have to react, that we have to act and only what we can do to make this shame and this chaos stop, this shame and chaos stop is really the disbanding of the Parliament, the extraordinary parliamentary elections where we would give citizens the opportunity to re-choice and hope that all of this that we've been through, this experience that we've had over the past few months will be the grain of wisdom that won't allow us to make the same mistakes, that we'll fall for the same stories that we bought a few months ago. The responsibility at this point is in the hands of the parliamentary deputies and I think that each of us is aware that when the motion for a decision to disband the Parliament comes to the agenda in this House and besides when it comes to order we will also see how responsible the entire patriotic coalition is because they decide which points will come when they come. We will be able to say that we have done what is best for Croatian citizens at the moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u7321	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the HNS Club, the word will be taken by the distinguished representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u7322	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. From our own, in our recent history since the date of the establishment of the multilateral Croatian Parliament, so far if we exclude wartime political system, political institution and political credibility, we as representatives and all other institutions, including political parties, have never been more tempted than today. The political crisis that we are experiencing along with a whole series of innovations that some call the experiments that happened to us in 2016 makes it difficult for the whole country to function in many ways. This is not about the bachelor competition, about the race, about the tightening of ropes between the different powers that form power, this is unfortunately about the lack of understanding of the elemental needs of maintaining responsibility to its own state. Whoever ignores the present situation, whoever treats her indifferently, actually violates the oath we made in this Croatian Assembly. Let me remind you that at that time we have sworn to this honorable duty, we have said: "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all progress in the Republic of Croatia." It is our task to be responsible and to realize that the most important decisions must be made in the Croatian Parliament and that each of us must be responsible to recognize everything that is not good for the future of the country. We are witnessing a situation in which many political institutions are faced with dysfunction. It is easy to treat and sit here unconscious that there is a quality, quick and easy way out of this situation but it may conflict with the individual interests of some of us, meaning being irresponsible. In this present situation, when the biggest party of the coalition and the co-operation in power realized that after six months she had admitted that she had made a mistake, if it were an experiment, the highest level of responsibility of the HDZ would be to allow us all to return our mandates to voters as soon as possible. We don't care what HDZ is, because HDZ has been one of the most important actors of the Croatian political mix since 1990, and that party will certainly have been stronger or less powerful in playing an important role in this country's political life for a long time, but it is therefore their responsibility to listen to what we are saying from the opposition, sitting primarily in the mood of most voters who say, "Stop this agony! Don't play politics, don't play with the fate of political institutions, but let us decide who will and how Croatia will lead in the future." If we lose 2016 we do everything not to lose a day more, we do everything to get the composition of parliament as soon as possible as the actual majority of citizens or the will of most citizens of the Republic of Croatia, we put all our private party interests in another plan and respond to the request of those who sent us here to protect and represent their interests. In the parliamentary procedure, he sent a motion for the Croatian Parliament's disbandation under Article 78. The Constitution of the I appeal to the President of the Parliament, Mr. Academyman Željko Reiner to accept and accept this proposal as the most important proposal to vote on in the Croatian Parliament and to put this proposal on the agenda as soon as possible and put it on the table. Let us not allow the political space to be further polluted, preserve the dignity of politics and the Croatian Parliament. Because sooner to the elections, then to the honorable and pure cheeks of the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u7323	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the National Minorities Club, the honourable representative of Shandor Juhas will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u7324	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. So this dealing with ourselves leads to a whole series of problems that will soon arise and that may require some things to speed up or invite those people who can still make some decisions, to make those decisions. Because in 9 months, no matter what government she was or what government she was, they won't be interested in where Oreshkovic is, where Karamarko is, where Petrov is, where Juhas is, but they'll be interested in how, how to pay for their children's transportation to school, how to provide minimum funds for their children's schooling to stay here, to keep these families here, so they don't leave. What's this about? At the end of 6 months now, the decision on the criteria on how to finance the transport costs of regular high school students, which the government extended every 4 months, stands out. Translated this means that in 9 months, all those who are going to enroll in high school will not know whether the state will co-finance transport costs, whether they will be able to count on those funds and the problem of getting a child into high school and that child to stay at home, and there is nothing left to stay at home because there is no country and village we know what he looks like. From my personal experience, my colleagues asked me to work with them at school to encourage this problem, because there may still be a hint of hope that this government, too, would urgently bring some regulation or extend the duration of that regulation, and then at least 9, 10, 11 months to solve this problem. It means that the regulation is about 70, not around, but 75% of the costs of transporting students are borne by the state, and the rest are carried by parents. Some municipalities carry about ten percent, depending on how, with which material resources they have. And now there may be another problem to point out. We passed one Transport Act last week, on the financing of the transportation of students, students, the population of the island. I didn't want to raise that question, I didn't want to discuss it, because I thought maybe we should work it out differently. Students, students have secured free transport from the island to the mainland. Those who live on land who need to pay 800, 900, 1000 kn for the transport of their children regardless of whether it is funded or co-financed, they do not have it. They don't have it. And those children who, therefore, need to travel and who spend almost all day on a bus or at school have no right to co-finance. And if even that law, not the laws, if this regulation doesn't extend now, in the ninth, tenth month we're going to have a serious problem, a serious problem and about enrolment, a serious problem and about attending. And that's the problem I think we should try to solve as soon as possible. If we have already done such an injustice, it means that those on land have to pay, and those on the islands don't have to pay, then let's try to settle it in some reasonable time if we have the strength, if we have the strength to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u7325	Thank you very much. The next word will be taken on behalf of the club HSU, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go. And Stipe Petrina, of course, I forgot to tell you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u7326	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Governments will change, the parliament will be convened, but tax administrations will always remain the same. However, technologically at the level of the fifties of the last century. He will continue to do stupid things and train strictness against the citizens, especially the pensioners. Namely, I have a problem with a pensioner here from Dugi Selo who receives, it is not a unique problem, there are hundreds who receive a 300-euro pension from the Republic of Slovenia. Instead of adding up two and two in the IRS and determining the exact amount of tax that is due to pay, and in a way that can add up two pensions, they refuse 3800 as much as the untaxable amount of pension. The rest of them are applied 12% of taxes plus taxes for Long Village, they account for a double tax advance than real taxes. And so on for 12 months. Retirement with 5000 kunas of income is paid instead of 166 kn per month, pays 292 kn and is an annual subscription for the year 1992 kn. I don't understand why our consumers in electricity consumption have the right to choose or pay advances in HEP-based wars or to read their own numbers and pay for real consumption. Why taxpayers do not have the ability to calculate their own tax and pay taxes. Is that such a tough math? Well, my people, I'll figure this out in five minutes. A first-grader can calculate it, just give him the entrances and faster than I can. So there's no math here and no problem. This kind of reckoning can be made daily by a clerk of 250 if he makes an effort because it is very simple mathematics. So why is someone waiting six months for a tax advance solution? 6 months should wait from the date of the request. So let's look at how modern states do it, so let's put on the IRS of certain calculators where I put in the amounts of my foreign pensions from the state, my sad pensions, and get that calculator out of the exact amount that I can pay monthly. If it does not go licensed 1000 unemployed, then for a certain small amount of money from the state or from the user that these licensed ones can calculate their real tax. Why would they pay and be overpaid, credited to the state? The orderly solution states that the non-payment state charges tight interest in the current month. And when he returns, he returns 7 to 10 months late without interest. So, guys, who's here? Is it the state because of citizens or are they citizens to feed the state and the state bureaucracy? So this time you can't tell me I was just criticizing. You have all the solutions you want. It's just a matter of somebody clicking on the IRS and ordering it not to. I also fought with the Tax Administration in the past government and the only thing I managed to do was that those who collect two or more pensions have less than 3800 to be issued a permanent solution, as long as there are such circumstances, do not pay taxes. And nothing further than that. So there is a very, very strong resistance to any change in this state institution, regardless of which government it is. And this isn't criticism. This is an appeal for help and for intervention. People, don't yell the skin off the back of citizens and those who are the oldest and those who may still be taking care of themselves may be feeding one of the younger unemployed in the family. Give some heart to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u7327	Thank you very much. And the last will be on behalf of the Bandic Milan 365, Buz and Ermine Lekaj Prljaskaj, Vladimir Bilek and Mirko Raskovic, the distinguished representative of Milivo Spik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u7328	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Maybe we'll shorten that name soon, maybe it wouldn't be a nice club of community, work and solidarity, but we'll see. Dear fellow citizens, what would all of us at this time probably ask us if we are responsible, is 151 a representative in this situation where the Republic of Croatia is responsible in the conduct of its duties? And we all know that the election was six months ago, that the citizens showed their will. What's dramatic about that? We all see that the government doesn't work properly and that the most normal things happen. Both in Europe and in the world, governments come together for five months, six months, a year and two and work or not. And what do you do now? The simplest thing, without any dramatization, what is the Patriot coalition and the undertaking we will change the configuration that should be effective and in the function of the citizens. And then what happens? All of a sudden, it's dramatic whether the Patriot coalition has collected 76 signatures instead of 31 as much as it needs, and while the other option gets as much together as it does, that's fine. Why is that? Are we responsible if we provoke the public all the time and... some activities that can get out of control at any time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Those who now call the elections immediately and now did not do so six months ago when they could, when the entire Croatian public asked the previous government to leave as soon as possible and now. So they waited, they made it to the last minute. And now, referring to the interests of the Republic of Croatia, they demand the disband of the Croatian Parliament, they ask everyone to leave and say it is the interest of the Republic of Croatia. Be honest with the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and do not underestimate their intelligence because citizens are not stupid, citizens see what is happening. Because those who didn't win the last election would now try because it seems to them that they could be more successful now. To do that, what are they doing? They're fabricating affairs. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u7329	Let your colleagues please be quiet as we have released the other speakers so far, and let our fellow Spic speak in peace. Here you go, fellow Spika.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u7330	Thank you very much. My fellow Members, it is clear to all of us that even after yesterday's statement by our prime minister, it is a notorious fact that it is a person who does not understand the political situation in Croatia and does not understand political relations because if he is going to seek trust here again from us, and it is known who brought him here, it is known that he cannot and these are the realities. In parliamentary democracy, the most normal thing and the interest of the Republic of Croatia is that what is most normal and tries to make a new parliamentary majority with the government that will be functional, and if it cannot, this applies to both you and us, then it goes to parliamentary elections. Instead of doing an option here that's lost the election? He's fabricating and making up affairs. And what's most interesting is the affair that I think is the biggest one in the last 26 years. My dear friends here in Croatia can buy a media space to defile anyone. Here you can buy criminal charges against anyone here you can deunciate anyone and here the only thing that can happen is that for a month, on all the media we see an orchestrated attack without any argument on the option, which is if we're going to look politically. Okay, but, at the same time, it's called for national interests and it's actually about the selfish interests of a political group that is trying to return to power again. Efforts to return to power is a completely legitimate right but to sacrifice the interests of the Republic of Croatia because a million and 200 thousand pensioners will watch out for what anyone is talking about and who here wants an exclusive election because of their national interests and is actually only responsible for their own interests. And those 340 thousand blocked will be careful whether they have to wait another 6 months or a year to get their rights in order to get rid of their fate, my dear friends. And what's particularly important here is to point out, and you were elected to be the best thing four years ago, you've turned out to be the worst government in the last 20 and a few years. And if what you're doing is a reason for the citizens to trust you again, be assured of the intelligence and intelligence of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia don't underestimate them because they know what's right. In any case, let us show the citizens and show the Croatian public that we are responsible. If there is a parliamentary majority that can give a functioning government, I can, if not, raise my hand first to go to new elections. But let democracy do its part. Thank you very much. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u7331	Thank you. Despite my fellow Spica for a round of applause, I would still ask that the next speakers be allowed to speak in peace, please come from either side. We came from either side, not to distract them like that. So we've exhausted this morning's practice by default. Well, before we go to the first point, we have two jobs to do. Now we're going to continue to work towards the cleaned agenda. But before that, we must perform the oath of our new members, two new members, the third member has already taken an earlier oath, and he does not have to. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure have been established that the President should read the text of the oath after which I will individually, by name, appoint representatives. The appointed representative then rises up and answers the word “I swear. ” I will now read the text of the oath: "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work, that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia." Dear Tomislav Ćorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u7333	I swear! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u7334	And the next one is Drazen Pross.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u7335	I swear! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u7336	Congratulations to both MPs on their sworn oath and I wish them success in carrying out this honorable and responsible parliamentary duty. Now we can move to the intended item of the agenda and that is: - The report on the work of the AZ compulsory pension funds for 2015 Carrier: AZ Mandatory Pension Fund Based on Article 150. Mandatory pension fund law. Due to the size of the material, the report is not multiplied but is located on the Croatian Assembly website. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Labour, the Pension System and the Social Partnership. You received reports at the session, the government delivered an opinion. Does the applicant's representative want to further explain the report? Yeah. The Honorable Dinko Novoselec President of the administration or what? Yes, yes, yes, well, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11037	President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable parliamentary MPs and parliamentary representatives. It is an exceptional pleasure to present to you the results of AZ's compulsory pension funds for 2015. 2015 was another one in a number of successful years for members of the AZ pension funds as a result of a consistent investment policy that puts security, prudence and... a reduction in the risk of investment dispersion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In short, our largest individual investment last year concerned long-term bonds of the Republic of Croatia, mostly long-term maturity. We also believe that market contributions are an attractive investment for members of our pension funds. In the part of the portfolio, with significant exposure to domestic tourism companies, the most significant positions concern healthcare and food industry issuers. The AZ mandatory pension funds in 2015 participated in recapitalisations in several Croatian stock companies. The capitalizations from Podravka, Rijeka and Illyria ports. The entry into force of the new law in 2014 introduced three categories within mandatory pension funds. The largest AZ compulsory pension fund of category B in 2015 had 607 thousand 323 members. Fund members made a 5.61% contribution and as inflation was negative in 2015, the real contribution was also above 6 percentage points. Total earnings were made to pension fund members worth 1.5 billion kuna. The average profit of AZ category B fund in 2015 was around 2500 kuna. In 2015, the average annual contribution from the start of business and by the end of 2015 was 6.02%, taking into account the inflation rate according to data provided by the State Statistics Office, the real contribution of the AZ to the compulsory pension fund of category B from the beginning of the year 2002 until the end of 2015 was 3.79%. On 31.12.2015, the total assets of AZ of the mandatory B pension fund amounted to €28.4 billion, of which over 70% were invested in government bonds. Investment in shares accounted for slightly more than 20% of the total assets of the fund. Of foreign investments, a significant part of the fund's assets are issuers based in the US, Slovenia, Israel and Switzerland. In a sectoral sense, the most significant part of the portfolio's share capital refers to companies dealing with pharmaceuticals and goods of broad consumption. In the currency structure, more than 50% of the fund's assets relate to domestic currency exposure with significant exposure to the euro and the US dollar. The AZ mandatory pension funds of category A and C were established in 2014 and in late 2015 totaled 8 743 members. In 2015, AZ compulsory pension fund category A made a contribution of 9.67% and total earned its members 16.4 million kuna or average per member, which amounted to 7800 kuna. AZ Mandatory Pension Fund category C earned a 5.36% contribution and earned its members 39.3 million kuna or an average per Article 5900 kuna. On 31.12.2015, the total assets of AZ of the mandatory pension fund category A amounted to 195 million kuna, 49% of which were invested in government bonds and equity securities accounted for 45% of the total assets of the fund. In foreign investments, a significant part of the fund's assets are publishers based in the US, Slovenia, Israel and the UK. On 31.12.2015, the total assets of AZ of the mandatory pension fund category C amounted to 880 million kuna and almost 90% of the assets of the fund were invested in the bonds of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with the legal limits of category C funds, it does not invest in equity and is not subject to significant currency risks, and therefore the exposure to domestic currency amounted to 100% of the assets of the fund. In 2015, the AZ funds were marked primarily by exploiting the expansion of investment opportunities for mandatory pension funds adopted by the new law in 2014. In particular, certain restrictions have been lifted in terms of investments in infrastructure projects in the Republic of Croatia and opportunities are raised, the percentage of entry into the ownership of a particular company from the previous 10% to today's 20%. This enabled us, as I have already said, to participate in the projects of the recapitalisation of Croatian companies. The achieved high-end investment result for our members in all three categories shows that we are ready to manage three different portfolios that we can respond more adequately to the obvious, to expectations that, given the age of our members and the horizon of savings, are certainly different. Finally, 2015 is another one in a number of successful years for members of AZ compulsory pension funds. The AZ mandatory pension funds made satisfactory contributions in 2015 and total earnings amounted to 1.6 billion kuna. In the AZ funds we took advantage of the expansion of investment opportunities by introducing a new law and participated in several investment projects in the Croatian economy. Finally, I would add that for the success of the pension reform in the Republic of Croatia it is necessary to increase the retirement rate for the second pension column from the current 5% to 10% in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11038	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first to come to the debate was on behalf of the SDP Club, the distinguished representative Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11039	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to express my dissatisfaction that we did not report on all 4 compulsory pension funds in one debate, so it was a year with one good cut through the work of all compulsory pension funds. So I realize that buying time or to show the Croatian public that we are doing something and de facto we are going to spin one and the same because looking at the mandatory pension fund reports all 4 are somewhere within the limit of what was expected under the law and all that the Pension Fund Act predicted, so here I am sorry that representatives of other mandatory pension funds will not listen to my discussion because I do not intend to repeat it three more times behind this. When we talk about mandatory pension funds, then I'd rather look at the first pillar and the intergenerational solidarity that assumes that there are a large number of employees and a small number of pensioners. We had this in 1990 when the relationship between employees and pensioners was 1:3, clearly that privatisation and robbery at the time of privatisation and everything that happened in the 1990s led to the destruction of jobs, that jobs were not opening. After that came recession and at this point we have a 1:1.19 relationship of employees and pensioners. On the other hand, this unfavorable relationship of births and budget problems because the budget requires additional funding of the pension system because some 19 to 20, 21 billion are collected from the contribution, depending on how much we charge, and the costs of the pension system are somewhere in the last data of about 39 billion. However, there must be another fact that there are two pension systems in Croatia, that one pension system is related to the so-called pension system. labour pensions, which is related to the Pension Insurance Act, the Law on Mandatory and the Law on Voluntary Pension Funds, and that we have one completely other, parallel system, which is a system which is related to special pensions where the state has clearly stated no matter how much they work, no matter how much they pay during your working life you will have earned a pension. And clearly, this system must also be financed directly by transfers from the budget, not by contributions, because it has nothing to do with contributions and has nothing to do with the Pension Insurance Act and the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds. The objectives of each pension system are to ensure adequate and safe income at a time when you stop working not only for you but also for your family. And therefore, the pension system is a system that ensures the risk of age, disability and death of family fosterers. With a basic requirement for the system to be stable, that it is financially stable in the long term, that it is in line with the legal system and economic and demographic developments. On the other hand, the aim of each system is to reduce public expenditure, so that the budget transfer is as small as possible. Introduce different ways of financing pensions that Western countries have long introduced and have long ago this tradition of saving already the first day when you enter the workplace. The objective of the pension reform is also to increase the responsibility of each individual for his pension and for the financing of pensions at his age. Unfortunately, we haven't moved far. And when you ask today most of our employees in which pension fund you're in. It's good to remember what pension fund they're in, and there if you ask where you're at, most of them have no idea or will or desire to deal with it. While on the other hand, when you ask them where they'd like to invest your money in savings, which bank, then clearly you're looking at the yield, which bank, which gives better conditions. Unfortunately, we have not come to this level that in mandatory pension funds our fellow citizens look at which funds will be invested, in which portfolio, where I have better yields. And that's what's on mandatory pension funds, and so is the Ministry of Labour, the pension system and the Ministry of Finance, to increase that financial literacy and be better. And last not least, and perhaps one of the more important is the development of the capital market. Therefore, pension funds should be an engine for the development of the capital market whether or not they are. There are different opinions. But in any case, by recovering from recession, here are the latest examples where pension funds played a significant role in our capital market and entered with their shares, with their resources in Croatian companies. The peace system as it had previously been tied to only the first pillar is unsustainable. Of course he's unsustainable for the reason that, here's what I said at first, he's sustainable when there's a lot of those who work and not a lot of those who enjoy retirement. It will never be in Croatia again. Croatia is a country that is old, where the demographic situation is also extremely bad. Therefore, we must base ourselves and continue where it started in 2000, so that pension savings other than this intergenerational solidarity are based on the second and third pension pillars. So I'm glad it didn't respond to that siren name for destroying the second pension stake and transferring those funds somewhere around 70 billion is in mandatory pension funds. This siren call to transfer it to the state budget would improve the situation financially, reduce some of the debts, but would destroy the future of young generations, young people now entering the labour market because they would not have their earned pension in 20 or 30 years. Therefore, the government has also adopted certain changes that are going to strengthen the second pension pillar as much as possible, the pension column has been defended. And here's for sure, I'm quite certain that there will be very little in this House that will raise your hand to destroy the savings of our citizens who are in the second pension column, to destroy the future of young people who are now on the labour market with this one desire to nationalize the second pension column. For this it is necessary to ask each of us, because it is the savings that I have, it is my saving and it is I hope that no one will think of nationalizing the savings of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and it is one of the biggest things that one could do without leading to an improvement of the situation in the pension system, because the improvement in the pension system can come from only two premiums. One is an increase in the redundancy in the second pension column and an increase in the number of employees. The amendments to the Pension Insurance Act, i.e. the Mandatory Pension Insurance Act, have led to results. You've seen all three pensions reports, and then there's companies that run pension funds. What we imposed on them with this law, we first separated the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds and the Law on Voluntary Pension Funds, but we allowed the same society to govern both. We imposed greater obligations on the administrations, we imposed greater risk control obligations because we allowed the other pension pillar or societies that manage our funds that we entrusted to them to invest them in the Croatian economy, to invest them in a safe way without a risk greater than the risk expected. Therefore, all companies operating must have a risk management system, an internal audit, have an actuarial function. So that's where we solved the issue of conflict of interest, and we solved the issue of rewards in boards of boards of boards of boards managing pension funds. We also defined the risk management system, the regulation of how to finance society. For the first time, we have resolved the issue of promotional activity and you see it all and now in these funds, the law came into force in 2014, and the reports of the funds clearly show that this has been well implemented and that this has also led to improvement of the state and improvement of the work of society means improving the work of pension funds. So what we can't be satisfied with is this diversification of our assets by risk. So that portfolio A, B and C. Because obviously, despite the promotion that our citizens at this point were not further motivated to transfer some of their assets to portfolio A, most of them are in portfolio B. However, I think we will have a bigger transition from one portfolio to another in the future. We will especially have I hope and that better flow of insurance through mandatory pension funds. Because if you look at most when you enter a mandatory pension fund, it doesn't come out of it until the end of your working life. And it is expected that, given that there are differences in the performance of mandatory pension funds, the flow of insurance through funds will be greater in the future. I am pleased to see from the report that this downsizing of the legislator that mandatory pension funds can invest more in domestic shares, so before this law there was 11% of the total pension limit of 10% of the issue, now we have raised it to 25 to 30% and a maximum of 20% of the editions, with 100% of the volume possible. On the other hand, we made it possible to invest in domestic corporate bonds. 2% before now is up to 30%. And what is one big step is made possible by compulsory pension funds to invest in infrastructure projects of the Republic of Croatia up to 15%. So these were all measures that would encourage compulsory pension funds to function better and to make greater contributions. That, as you can see from the report, has been achieved. On the other hand, we predicted that the costs of the system itself with its development were falling so that the management fee by 2015 was a maximum of 0.45, some of the funds themselves reduced that fee. By reducing it by 7% each further year compared to the fee applied in the previous year. So the goal is to make the management fee as small as possible. And what is also important is that for the second time we are discussing the work of pension funds in the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public will have the opportunity to hear what is the success of their work because there is our future, there are our pensions. I note that it is necessary to continue the development of a three-stage pension system especially the second and third pension pillars with an increase in detachment to between 6% and 9% but not at the expense of workers, but should be found on the part of employers the possibility to allocate more for pension insurance workers. Clear with the discharge on the other side, so we don't increase the labour price. Because looking at the separation ratios for the pension system compared to the allocations for the health system between Croatia and the EU countries, the difference is that these 2 rates are very close to the other countries where they are separated. So there should be a common opportunity to strengthen the second pension column. On the other hand, we have already changed the formula for calculating the pension that will take into account how much has been allocated to the second pension column. In this way, pensions from the first and second pension pillars will be much better than they were before under the previous law. And what is the goal and what is quite safe and visible from all of our projections is that, with the increase in the number of employees, the increase in the isolation of the second pension column clearly again not to the expense of workers and not to the cost of increasing the labour price in Croatia. So that's where we need to find a common possibility of doing it. Our goal in 2027 is to make pensions from the first pillar about 20% less than pensions from the second pillar. This means that all those who have the first and second pension pillar will have 20% higher salary. That's what we can all accomplish. And the system is set to continue to develop it. Thank you very much. The SDP club will support all four reports.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11040	Thank you. The next debate is on behalf of the HSU Club, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11041	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Novoselac, well-respected colleagues and colleagues, and I think I'm a little embarrassed to discuss one mandatory pension fund since the problem is 99.5% and even more cases are exactly the same as all four mandatory pension funds. And I really don't know why this debate isn't united for all four mandatory pension funds. And maybe there's someone really in Parliament who's making a point just for some mandatory pension fund, so I allow that possibility, but I think it's just nuances. The problem is common, let's say and the results are kind of when you look at them in a review table of common success. And as far as the entry fees are concerned, we are below European averages and we are on the European average with the contributions of compulsory pension funds. And I don't think there's any difference here, so this debate could have been united. I am pleased that in the last 7, 8 months in Croatia, there has been little euphoria against compulsory pension funds and the idea of nationalisation or the shut-down of compulsory pension funds for one reason that I think it is not normal to think about such a solution for 18 years after the legal regulation of the three-stage pension system and 14 years of the functioning of mandatory pension funds. So I'm glad that euphoria has fallen and that perhaps now is the time to talk differently about the role of compulsory pension funds in the development of the Croatian economy. However, there are many unknowns about it, I think our Croatian society is quite uninformed about what role it is, which mandatory pension funds can, which I can't, which means when a mandatory pension fund enters into the ownership of a single company, is that good, is that bad, all such variations in Croatia today are waiting for a knife without thinking about anything. Is it better to be privatized when you're bought by a competitive company that's going to destroy you because it cares that a company like that disappears from the market or is it good to be bought by someone who doesn't have any money? Such privatisations we have been through a lot in Croatia and we still have them or buy you a mandatory pension fund where your dividend or profit goes to saving the citizens of the Republic of Croatia? What's the best of the three privatisations? Or would we really like to be bought by foreign investors with loans from foreign banks and that orderly profit goes out of the Republic of Croatia? I don't know, you should think about it, but I'm sure it's not just mandatory pension funds that are invited to communicate with citizens. The second delusion of Croatian society is that it is the 1st, 2nd, 3rd pension column that these are islands. They are pillars, but they hold a common vault, hold a common roof, and that story needs to be regained. So these aren't islands. At the 1st, 2nd, 3rd pension post, where one stops the other starts. They are like fingers and fingernails, they continue, they complement each other. Of course none of them are ideal, but none of those three pension funds are risk-free. Our people say the 1st pillar is the law, it's a state pension. Ma figu is your law, what if the Croatian state had to devalue the kuna 40% because of the bad economic situation before the euro was accepted? Will pensions in the first pillar avoid that risk? They're tied to wages, the value of wages and pensions in that case goes down. There may be a reduction in the value of pensions in any economic haemataria, thus reducing the real value of pensions and wages. Therefore, there is absolutely no security. So all columns are related to a certain risk. Of course, the risk in the first pillar is overcome by solidarity and mutuality of citizens, i.e. workers and pensioners. Here's the story second, here are the deposits secured in the depositary bank, so they have one special kind of security but no one can guarantee that it's the Everlasting Amen. And that we understand those who say that there is a need to nationalise and take money from other pension pillars, or from compulsory pension funds, from the 2nd pension pillar. You need to be aware that you can actually get 500 million kunas of cash, everything else is in bonds and shares, which means that someone needs to cash those bonds and shares again. Who is the largest owner of bonds, or whose bonds are usually owned by compulsory pension funds? State bonds. Then we're talking, says the state is paying 3 billion kuna interest on bonds. Is it a good thing he's paying 3 billion kuna for profit in saving citizens or would we really want him to pay that to a German or American bank, which is better? Of course it would be best if we all produced more than we spend, if we had a government surplus, if we didn't have a public debt, that would be best, but that's not the case. It's not like that. We live by, let's tell the postulates of the arranged world and the financial and whatever, and we've accepted those rules of the game. We can hardly give up on them and the risks really, really are here. So of course I'm not going to brag too much about mandatory pension funds, they had their crisis in 2008, in 2009, they overcame the crisis. Such years will still be, it is certain that because of one, two or three years in 20 such years they do not need to make drama they can, in some ways survive and can compensate for any minuses in some years so that the contributions of compulsory pension funds are on average satisfactory and on average above the EU average, and that means a sufficient sign to accept these reports. But in no way can we claim from this pay phone that the system of the second pension system is in line with the first pension column is ideal. That's not true, there's always something to do. We have to admit to those who are going to retire or who are going to retire have 10, 15 years of contributions only in the first pension column that those in two-stage pensions for those years only have to get a 27% pension allowance, which is not yet legally settled at this time. We have to deal with the situation when the security guard dies before the right to use on another pension post. We're very, very thin here. About the succession process, about paying the heirs, so these are still problems we haven't touched because they weren't current. I have one problem when people go into disability because, of course, no one, they didn't go alone, but they're such health circumstances that they have to use a disability pension. At that time, their pension as a two-stage calculation, it is thick, thicker than the pension of the first pension pillar and must wait until their conditions for full age pension payment from the second pillar no matter how much savings it is. They do not pay because they do not have a source, they do not have a pension, they are not paid in the second pillar but only on the salary, so this is possibly the amount that is fertilised in the second pillar, i.e. capitalised, or added annual contributions. But a man wonders, and wait, I need him today. I'm, I'm younger, I've had an accident, I couldn't work until the conditions for full-age property and I have some savings there, I wish I had about 100 or 150 or 200 kuna a month more. So that whole model still hasn't been worked out yet. So, of course, it is primarily our business here in the Croatian Parliament as a legislator but also the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, which is the HANFA regulator on the financial market. So, of course, we could say more of those things that we need to sort out. For the end, let me say one thing. I said that once, but I'll do it again. We are very critical of what we create. So this company created capital, an asset of 75, now probably already by 80, given the passing of half a year, probably close to 80 billion kuna. And our problem is that we really don't know what to do with it. On the one hand, the loudspeaker funds must function as a development of the Croatian economy. And then we yell against the fact that the funds entered the property of Concar or some company. How's he gonna get in? So I can't have mandatory pension funds borrowing money, money borrowing banks. Funds may buy shares in shares or bonds or may monitor the project, a recapitalisation project. Do you think Podravka is so strong that without compulsory pension funds, she could buy grain? Do you think if the Slovenians had 80 billion kunas in their mandatory pension funds that they didn't have, would they privatise any of their own banks? No, you wouldn't. Citizens and their savings would be, their second pillar would be the owners of all banks. So for one who is considering Croatia's future, this is quite enough information where mandatory pension funds can invest. And the task is for the state to come up with long-term projects that are interesting for mandatory pension funds. For them, projects of high risk and rapid turnover of capital are impossible. They can't place money and borrow. So it doesn't work that way. So they're interested in projects that will pay back the money for the next 20, 30, 50 years. The state has been called upon by governments, these states, all regardless of color are invited to design such projects and this capital that exists to be used not only for the sale of bonds but for something new that will be in the function of developing and increasing the value of this country. So, of course, all the people who are creative are invited, who understand let's say both micro and macro economies and especially these important economic projects. I believe Croatia has that. But we have to get this out of this cramp and not go to the knife for everything and they're all yelling at us. All people work for money, of course, in the financial industry, rarely who works for ordinary wages, because they have to have special skills and skills, and that's just the way it is. You can't make you have a 1000-euro salary fund manager. It just doesn't work. It's arranged in another way. We either have to accept it or let's not expect a pension from our savings because it won't be. Thank you very much. The Croatian Party's club of pensioners of Stipa Petrina's independent list will support all these reports and we will not especially report to each mandatory pension fund because it really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11042	Thank you. The next debate is on behalf of the HDZ Club, the distinguished representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11043	Thank you very much, Vice President. Respected directors of the company for the management of compulsory pension funds. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I don't agree that there's no point in arguing. That there's no point in discussing something that might be the most important thing in this society right now. Well, all four of my colleagues, I don't think I'll ever do something like this with you, but you've decided to step out with all of us, so I have to answer some of your views because you said that only one who understands the micro-economy and the macro-economy as a whole can't possibly criticise pension reform and the second pension column. Even though I speak for the club, I'm going to have to say my personal attitude now. I was able to choose when the law was passed and I didn't choose, and I didn't sign up for the second pension column. If you say I don't understand any of this, I accept your thesis, but I won't say you don't understand. Your right and your position to think as you will, but don't call those who have different opinions not to understand. And that's what you said. You've come down hard on everyone who doesn't think alike. Well, four mandatory pension funds are four legal entities different. Their similarity is only because they are engaged in the same activity. These are 4 different reports, 4 completely different legal persons and 4 owners different from different business results and why it makes no sense to discuss each report individually and you said it makes no sense. I think it makes a lot of sense because if they have so many different investment data, about the results of the business, then why not analyze each individual? I understand your representation of your views and interests, and I know you'd be happy to hear from an insinuate word abolishing. I never at least noticed that someone here was speaking in the abolition of the second pension column, although it would be a theme that could be attacked then by those who don't think it's forced to think. But then they don't understand anything, they don't know anything, they don't know anything about Poland, Hungary, Slovakia, Lithuania, Latvia and the rest of the countries that because of the fall in GDP, and because of the crisis, they've frozen their secessions into another pension pillar and no one's touched what was set out in that column until then. And I can't help but get the impression that sometimes the facts don't come to the wrong conclusion. You said or I heard that mantra funds must serve as a generator for economic development. That mantra is based on ignorance, this mantra. It has been proven that more encourages economic growth of the Solidarity Fund than another pension pillar, but if you intend to call me for this claim then I confess again, plagiarist, this is a statement by a Slovak scientist who recently visited Croatia, so she said, perhaps she doesn't know enough either. You said the seas, the funds must invest in the state, so they buy government bonds, invest in shares of state-owned companies, and that there is such a thesis that it is retaining some ownership and control of those shares. What if pension funds sell those shares to someone on the other side of the continent tomorrow? It's just, of course, their right and perhaps economic decision. but then it can't be based on the claim that it's retaining some kind of control and control of the property. I have no personal prejudice against any sale of part of a state-owned company or state-owned company if it is based on analysis and systematic results and analysis showing the social and economic justification of such an act. But selling something in a second phone, no analysis, it's a deal that's unacceptable to me. Get 20% of the Concar stock 300 million kuna I wonder who set the price? Who arranged the terms? Who arranged the buyer? Who did this transaction deal with? On the stock market. How can it be if on the stock market that four pension funds buy exactly the same price as the same package? Well, I was wondering who arranged these transactions, and for what? And could it have been won instead of 300 million 500 million kuna? It is. And right now. Maybe it could have been in 30 days. But apparently full of mouths are markets for those who do not respect the legality of the market, but for the market, it is known that the market excludes terms and prices. The market excludes agreed release packages and that someone will give up and buy and someone will buy just in order to buy the agreed purchase at the same price. I don't think that's how Croatia is kept, but I have no objection to the sale of part of Končar shares. But to know why and what the effects are, and what the consequences are negative, such as at that time of such a transaction. Because it is not, the effects of the transaction are also affected by the timing of the decision-making process. Imagine the moment when, when we can't issue government bonds, we sell 20% of the Concar's shares under control that the state can't manage. Ten days ago, one of the leaders of a mandatory pension fund said that the state really does not know how to manage anything and that it should be taken away and that it should be left to all privates. The truth is, the state has proven to be mismanaged. But that same person who said that only in one transaction in Nasice lost a billion kuna on behalf of you pensioners. That successful fund manager. A billion kunas in one place only. So much for success. But I don't know we are, we're here talking about a report from mandatory pension funds or we're talking about the system. If we're talking about the system, it's a whole different discussion. If we're talking about the report then there's a report on the Committee on Finance and Budget I said it's a little handicapped law. This is not prescribed as many matters of importance are not prescribed by law, so I requested to submit a report on the business of companies for the management of compulsory pension funds. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will accept these reports because they are made up of substance, solidly. It's true, it's a little more core than you'd expect. I think it should be more content and should contain more essential elements. But if we just compare the report on AZ's compulsory pension fund with another, then it's visible in some indicators that they're better than other mandatory pension funds, and in some indicators they're bad. And that's normal. It's just a technical remark. The total expenditure of the Management Society is not 13 million kuna, but 46 million kuna. These are the remaining expenditures of 13 million kunas. But if the results of the business that has 25 employees' incomes are 142 million kuna and the expenditures are 46 million kuna. So 98 million kuna is a profit in the company of 25 employees. Doesn't this make you think, and all proceeds are based on legal fees, premiums, management fees, exit fees. And that these revenues are per employee above average high, that profit per employee above average and that profit on total revenues above average is high. Doesn't that make you think something needs to be changed in the system? I think you should. Whose burden are these charges? The burden of members of the compulsory pension fund society. But if out of 142 million kuna income is a profit of $96 billion and is not the result of the company's business but is the result of a legal provision on the prescribed minimum fees, then I think we need to think about changing the legal framework. And I don't really think they're too rational in business and that's why it's so successful because they don't have big expenses. Well, 25 employees on average have 10 million kunas on their salary alone. The average salary is $400,000 a year, not just the fund manager. Let us remember the average salary of those who have voted for such provisions. I know that many are interested in retaining the existing situation, but this is a very expensive situation for the Republic of Croatia. And I think it's high time to discuss seriously the need to amend the law in a scientific and professional debate. But not the cobwebs. You wouldn't have bought Podravka if it hadn't been for pension funds. And we're not asking if Podravka was supposed to buy the grain at all? Is it economically justified to buy Podravci Zito? Close the previous own drive with the same production processes and then overpay the price no one wanted to pay, so Podravka found the money and paid. Well, the Slovenians are lucky they sold it. And we boast of bad economic moves. The HDZ Club supports the report and will accept the report but warns of any difficulties that arise in the pension system, especially the part that completely avoids saying the word transition cost as if it were not there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11044	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first distinguished representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11045	Dear colleague Maric, of course, was the subject of a report, but you spent the first five minutes of your debate on behalf of the club on a replica, I don't know why I'm making you so nervous, I've given some of my opinions and findings, not judging those who think differently. It's your right. And I had the right to choose one or the other and that's every citizen's right. And it's my choice. But can you also impose your rules and say that all the pension funds' acquisitions were not good and there was also the capitalisation of Luke Rijeka and the capitalisation of Podravka and Postage Bank I do not know what of it is not in the interest of the Republic of Croatia? And to be clear, I wasn't talking about this last sale from a position as good or not good, as justified or unwarranted. I was talking about how mandatory pension funds can buy. So I can't borrow money for the current production, for the plasma, but I can go into ownership, I can enter through the capitalization. That's what I was talking about. And as it has been sold, we should ask that across the street, the current session of Prime Minister Oreshkovic's cabinet is why, for which reason, who negotiated, why this price, why in 5 minutes, why not the stock market? I'm sorry, your question went to the wrong address. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11046	Replica response, distinguished representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11047	Thank you very much. You don't piss me off at all. No, no, no, no, no, no. No, we're having a discussion. Why, I haven't replicated it to you, but you've forced yourself with the thesis that all those who don't accept this rest in some way in ignorance. I've just expressed my disagreement with such a thesis. But you're entitled to it, and I'm not going to defile it for any reason, your thesis. But after 16, how many 12, 13 years since 2002 when it was passed, 14, I didn't choose and imagine after 14 years that I was still satisfied that I didn't choose. Well, then I guess I have a right to say my opinion. Of course, everyone has the right to speak their mind. But I don't call you for not knowing what you're saying like you're saying. But to ban a debate about one of the most important problems, not to allow a different opinion, to say if someone suggests something that he's had a fight with common sense, then it's unacceptable. I'm not saying that pension funds didn't have great acquisitions and good but I can't agree if 4.8 billion kunas in one year lost in those acquisitions that there weren't a lot of bad acquisitions. Imagine, that's why I set the example, out of those 4.8 billion just 1 billion they ruined in Nasice to be specific, targeted by someone's order. Who executed the order to invest in Nash? It's not the fund's decision. If a decision is a trust fund, then he has to step down because he knew he couldn't invest there at the time. Do you agree with that? Because it was so deep back then that he shouldn't have invested. It was a failed firm. And if someone ordered him, then he can't be a trust fund manager again because he can't follow orders. And I'd like to know who ordered him. As in the case of the purchase of Concar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11048	The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11049	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I agree with you that there should have been a public debate on this very important issue you stressed that it should be started in the procedure. So here's the question, here's what I'm asking you. more questions why have Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary and other numerous countries abolished the pension, the 2nd pension pillar? And is it true why, if the truth was eaten in Croatia, it remained voluntary, this 2nd pillar? Is it normal for you in the country in this difficult situation that pension fund management companies require 5% of their contributions? Do you see it as a deterioration in the budget, and in what way, if you see it and how should you and where should you look for a solution? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11050	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11051	Thank you very much. Col. Bulj, the business of compulsory pension companies with the budget has little to do with it. Even the delayed ones don't affect economic growth at all. I don't get it, and why am I saying that the incomplete data, that all these reports don't say, doesn't all the reports say how boredom the members of compulsory pension societies are receiving pensions based on the 2nd pension pillar? How many total people is that? Is that 100, or is that 10 grand, or is that 20 grand? There's no such thing as that. How much do they spend on pensions? There isn't. It's estimated that 74 billion kuna, 56 is paid, 18 billion is, so the money is paid is 18 billion and it's income, the difference is 18 billion, and the transition cost is 58 billion kuna. So the difference between the payment and the assets is 18 billion and the transitional cost of 58 billion. That means we're boasting about the bill that we've invested 3.2 kunas on the earned 1 kuna. That's a great bill. And that's what experts like that say. What's wrong? That in one second, a phone call is made to make a decision to sell anything. Somebody show me the elaborate on what made the decision to sell Conchar? ... So I ask him, I ask him, or I don't ask him, which is why I don't support the situation, but I don't even support the throw. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You can't make a decision about selling that there's no analysis of anything, but someone decided to sell the chat, but it won't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11052	Thank you. The next debate is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most and Honorable Representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11053	Dear Mr. Vice-President, honourable MPs and representatives of the Croatian Assembly, please allow me, on behalf of the MOST Club, to make some observations regarding the report on the work of the AZ Pension Fund, but only look back and in general, because as Dr. Maric said earlier because the situation is very similar with all four pension funds. First of all, I would like to conclude that only this Parliament in Europe deals with such reports because there is no other pillar of retirement anywhere else. I repeat, there's nowhere else we can go, so we should save the future in time for us not to deal with these things anymore. And now I'm going to explain. I also have to admit a bit of a distraction by a cheerleader and apologetic approach from Mrsic and Hrelje because it really comes to the impression that the minor members of the management board of these pension funds companies are. I can understand that Mrsic is performing this way because he was one of the best men, so the man who participated in the creation and then it's hard to expect him to take a critical look and change that. And there is an Israeli good proverb, “When you see that you do not understand something, then they say that there are usually interests behind it. ” In general, we can say that all individual reports, as well as joint reports on the work of compulsory pension funds, could be reduced to a common denominator to say that it has a strong line, leaves an impression of one defence, one defence approach or defence status at all costs of the current system, pension system or the specific position of the second pension pillar or compulsory pension funds. This report can find a lot of tables, numbers and they are perfectly well presented, however what is not presented is not a presented mode of work. Why does it matter? First of all, during the last report of about 2 months ago when we discussed here the 2014 pension funds report, we made a series of remarks here in the way the reports were drawn up. Secondly, these reports serve not only the fund managers because they work here every day, understand the situation, they are intended for all members of the Croatian Parliament, for us members of the Croatian Parliament and for the entire general Croatian public to understand. They are not educated to understand the meaning of each chart and each table. But let's take it in a row. For years, managers have explained how it is desirable to split funds into portfolios, so that the funds A, B and C were created, all in line with the amount of risk that a particular member is willing to take, and therefore consume the risks and, of course, also the company. So the question arises if we have A, B, C and the philosophy of investing at risk level, the amount of risk why then the category A fund that even 50% of the assets can invest in shares has as much as 52% in bonds. Why do you say that? Secondly, why does a category B fund that can invest up to 35% in shares only invest 19% in shares in the country and abroad? So unusual. In fact, all the management skills are to buy government bonds, so you essentially made only one large bond fund because of the total assets of 72 billion kuna of all these mandatory pension funds about 55 billion is in government bonds. What has just been said is particularly interesting how these bonds are valued, that is, what prices are achieved and transactions are carried out on the OTC market, so either among themselves or with banks owned by them. And these are related institutions because they own a pension fund management company owned by their owners. Thus, only one transaction maintains the bond price. If the price of something is held only on one transaction, then we do not need to explain to economists much, we see that there is no market. That's right, this, and we've defined ourselves as a market economy. The management fee is a special question. Here's the thing. There's been a few words about it. The fee can be thanked for the previous amendment of the law and for the former labour minister who left a fee of 0.45%, 3 years regardless of the movement of assets. So it's very high. Imagine in 2015 they charged 300 funds, 386 billion kuna, and it's said to be not much. Of course, in the market economy someone would say so why is it not twice as much because it is given to HANFA about 24 million, REGOS about 52 million. Of course I think this is, we think this is a lot. Because the total payments in 2015 were about 5.1 billion kuna and about 390 million kuna or 7.6% of the one-year payment was charged, which is very, very much. There's no excuse for this, as there's no excuse for REGOS and HANFA charging so much, that they're doing so much. Furthermore, as regards membership, you say, reports say that there are 1.7 million members of these four funds but we are also interested in the Croatian public here and I guess we deserve information about how many so-called funds you have. passive members who cannot regularly pay contributions because they do not work throughout the year. That would be the right information because he would have discovered a good part of the injustice of this system. In this context, we were hoping that you would show trends in payment of so-called. active members and assets of active members, so let's see how many assets belong under quotes privileged and how many assets those who are only members but without property could not be found here. In this context, there could be a lot more to be counted on, but calling for objections in the final debate in the Assembly again, you do not specify the structure of your earnings so that once again, once again, we can all see what the real realised profit of pension funds is and how unrealised profit is because here is counterpart Maric just mentioned one transaction to which he lost a billion kuna. I'll also mention that you're quoting, so about most of the funds, and here we heard in the debate that business, in this way, of compulsory pension funds, these four funds have a positive impact on the development of the economy and state finances. Well, I think that's pretty brave but also hypocritical because without the so-called. the transition cost of how much this system cost the state, i.e. taxpayers, could indeed get such an impression, but the truth is different but the information on the transitional cost is constantly hidden. And now at the end of what else do you say? I think it would be a good idea to make a braver report next time, and this information that doesn't come in favor of you because this is about public money, this is about the money of our citizens, active workers who, for a certain number of years, will become pensioners. We don't need delusions here, we need clear numbers and clear indicators. And what I want to continue to use and say about the pension reform itself because here is really the problem of competence in the performance. Of course, in this Croatian Parliament, we all have the same right to deliver opinions and that is not controversial. However, I do not dare to express my views on technical or professional issues in medicine, in energy, in astrology, etc. but I can't understand that individuals who are not originally experts in this area so strongly and confidently mean they want us to just act that way, that there's nothing to be criticized or that it's all clear and that this is an impeccable system. That is why we must implement the peace reform. For what? Due to the demographic downturn, due to the unsustainable relationship between pensioners and employees and due to the low GDP growth rate, and for 6 years, we had a cumulative GDP decline of around 13.5%. These are huge problems and these are the key issues of the sustainability of the pension system. That's why we have to reform the pension system. In this sense, as we have already proven scientifically and professionally and two months ago, there was one roundtable in this House where ten top experts from the economy and the rights on which some respected representatives participated, where it was clearly professionally spoken not of the need to implement the initiation of pension reform and the transformation of the second pension pillar. This transformation of the second pension pillar should not go in a way that requires its abolition. That would be not democratic. Then they would return there somewhere in the 99th year, 2000, when a second pension pillar was introduced not democratically. Why? Because no member of these other pension pillars means that the mandatory one could not declare his will or will not, which would mean the correction of that injustice that we see today's new system as the first pillar of intergenerational solidarity and the third pillar that no one mentions, there is, let that column be a real, voluntary, voluntary pillar, in which people will invest their risk and profits that they can possibly gain. But all who are present in the second pillar of retirement should be given freedom and the right to give up whether their money, not saving there, is the same glaring of the delusion that this money from that pillar is transferred from their account or transferred to their account to the first pension column or to the third pension column, but then they must know of course what they are exhibiting. Everything else is simply scientific and professionally unsustainable. I repeat, we are the only country in South East Europe, or Europe that has such an unsustainable pension system, an unsustainable second pension pillar and damage both in budgetary, state budget and public finances. I repeat, the transformation of a possible second pension pillar would not solve the problem of the difficult situation of the pension system. We can solve it only with strong demographic growth, higher rates of GDP growth and a better attitude of the working-active population towards the pensioners. But for the short term, this operation would improve the state budget, reduce the deficit, piously reduce public debt and automatically exit the excessive deficit procedure imposed on us by the EU. So, I repeat, this is not the ultimate solution, but it is essential for a country that is faced with such public debt problems and that we have additional problems. I remind you, respected MPs, that every year, there are about 17 billion kuna missing from this system for pension payments, and despite the fact that some still think that still directing 5% to another pension column and placing that same money on funds by that same state, but with an average of 5% of the additional burden means it burdens public finances and some think it's good. This is a matter of basic healthy logic. This only takes a healthy logic. The variant that funds instead of buying bonds from the state buys shares in state-owned companies is not a solution. On the one hand, it makes it difficult to manage the liquidity of the funds, the question of whether they will be able to sell those shares, and that company may fail, but of course, they do business everywhere so that someone doesn't get me wrong. Why is it not going, but there is one danger, if it is a company of particular interest, then the management company can sell its shares to ask no one, and therefore lies one of the dangers. I'm not against the share of private money in state-owned companies, but we just can't agree to the thesis that this kind of pension system means that it can be shown as successful and the time is off and we can clear it up with these delusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11054	We have six replicas. The first is the Honorable representative of Silavano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11055	Dear Sir, dear colleague Lovrinovic. I can also address you as a professor because you've been working at the university, and this fund has been handing out licenses to managers in time, as far as I know. You are therefore well acquainted with the period of leading the financial industry in Croatia, and you lived the same way. Secondly, I must say here in front of the Croatian Parliament that you said in January that the second pillar should be abolished, so Mr. Marić please remember who said that the second pillar should be abolished and Prime Minister Oreshkovic said that it should be used usefully in the development of Croatia and in economic projects. That's what I'm telling you because you interpreted my performance on behalf of the Assembly Club cheerleading fund-raiser, not in your sleep. Not in my sleep. And only thanks to the Croatian Party of Retirement Club in the last term which proposed the conclusion that we are talking here, to discuss pension fund reports, mandatory pension funds because it is a public interest, we have the opportunity to discuss it today and it is not the correct fact that there are no funds. They are frozen, deposits in funds in certain European countries have been frozen, but the money that remains in the funds continues to rotate and capitalise in these countries, so they too may need to be discussed in their parliaments on the fate of that money because it is a public interest. I'm just telling you plainly because you can't say that there's something winding if I say you need to edit the question of death, you need to give in your reports how many users of the second pension column, how much capitalised savings they have, in how many years. That's what we've been doing on the board. I can do it again here. So I don't see any praises and I don't recognize any praises to the funds. Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11056	Replica reply, distinguished representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11057	Well, Mr. Hrelja, first of all, I don't have any questions, but okay, we're polymizing in this way. It's all right. I think that's more important than just asking questions. We can understand individual positions and interests. First of all, I didn't share the licenses, because I wasn't the boss or the REGOS or the HANFA, and I don't have that authority. And the fact that I taught students, I teach today. Right? And that's not a problem, it's not a question of this debate at all. Here's the question of a bad one, the establishment of a bad pension system that was accepted here at the World Bank initiative, and all over the place, and it's only here. And when you talk about sales, I really can't help but notice one thing. The past seven days in this country have been a total mess, everyone's been confused about this situation in the government. Well, the prime minister seemed rather confused, but apparently he was perfectly concentrated when he was to sell very efficiently sold part of the Končar and hotels if I wasn't wrong on Korčula, a hotel in Korčula. So there was no ineffectiveness. That's why I voted against this government on January 22nd. And this government or any future prime minister, if he's just going to sell state property, and that the MOST and HDZ programs are gone, and he's gone, then we'd better disband everything. We don't need government, we don't need Parliament, because you can see that without the government, people are on their own, so we have a growth of two, two and a half percent because this kind of government bothers us. It destroys Croatia, and it is finally time for people who know and that we are here to forgive do not strive to finally lead this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11058	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11059	Thank you very much. A colleague of Lovrinović, so I think we know that the mark of a scientist is to question both himself and the other and everything around him. That's why the question of how, is this system good and what needs to be changed. And if you are, there's no problem between us. If you're the one who said you're against the suspension of the second pension stake, I'm against the abolition of the pension stake. And there's no problem between that. But there's a problem with cheerleading. I'm freezing because all transition countries are frozen because of the economic crisis until the country comes out of crisis. Just the two of them voluntarily. And I'll stand for it all the time if someone doesn't convince me otherwise. Maybe you or someone else, but so far no one's been able to convince me. As for the report to the Parliament, it is unusual for a private company director to submit a report to the Parliament. But they say here, the public's interest and the law requires it to endure, and the public's interest. I agree. But if it is such a public interest that a private company, which is the only case in Croatia, submits a report to the Croatian Parliament that the director of the company does not bear the property card. A couple of excellent examples of having to have an estate card. And it would be interesting to see the property card before and today each one of them. But it doesn't. As far as the transition cost is concerned, the official data of the HZMO is 43 billion kuna is a transitional cost without interest. With interest, $58 billion. That means, and 18 billion kunas have been paid in. This means that each member of the mandatory pension fund has one kuna more in the account, but it cost Croatia 3.2 kuna. Well, we can't boast about it, and we can't open up a debate about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11060	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11061	Dear colleague Maric, first of all, I forgot to answer this question to Mr Hrelja. I didn't ask for an termination in the Parliament and there's a stenogram of what I was saying, and the press could have transmitted my previous words somewhere like this anyway. I repeat, it is necessary to give people members, people who are employed the opportunity, the freedom to determine whether they will be in the first pension column or in the third pension column to be supported and developed. For that I am to be truly voluntary, voluntary with all meanings of those oatmeal professional and professional how it should be managed. This way the second pillar as it's conjectured it's unhealthy, it's unhealthy. You saw for yourself the social cost, the transition cost, and you can't call it someone's positive. So I said let's break up once we talk about these delusions, let's finally clear up with some of the things that are about it. We need a clear picture, we need the truth. And another thing at the heart of the pension reform that is necessary, and you can see that from it, it's aside. There's no monetary reform. Everything is practically going towards selling commercials, there is no meaningful economic programme. I am also pleased that the President of the Republic was very smooth yesterday, but very fierce in the background, criticised the inambitiousness of this reform that this government is conducting with the prime minister. And we don't want that kind of economic policy. In this sense, at the heart of the new pension reform, must it be who? Our pensioner. So we can't play with their fates, it's people at a stage where they can't work anymore, create, first of all have to have security, and we have to guarantee them with one democracy and freedom of choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11062	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11063	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Lovrinović, I do not intend to compete with your economic knowledge and I do not want to do so, but I want to correct certain illogicalities or things that you have said. First of all, the round table was absolutely biased because as you know, of the 10 speakers 8, it was for the removal of the second pension stake. Since you're a professor, it would be logical for that round table to have at least half-half, pro-contra, pro-for so the round table had the outcome that it had. When we talk about the lack in the second pension column, 17% of the funds are missing, that's true. But you forget that the state has said with its laws, I have repeatedly emphasized that we have two pension systems. One that is related to the workers' pensions that this law applies to, and another that is linked to the laws where the state has said, no matter how much you work, how many pensions you are entitled to. And those funds aren't in these funds that come from our salaries, they're from the budget. And it'll always be a budget transfer. So 17% is not a shortfall. So it's not that the funds are so missing. It's just missing because we spend it on pensions that aren't connected to the system itself. Insinuations that someone's bested someone or tied to someone I absolutely refuse. I'm just reminding you that you said one half-truth, so we kept the management fee up to 0.45 but you forgot to say that since this year there's going to be a reduction in the fee by 7% constantly until we get to 0. According to this and this law, we cut the management costs, we cut the costs of REGOS, so we cut the costs. So you can't say that we've been handing in hand to the societies that run these funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11064	Replica reply, distinguished representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11065	Dear fellow Mrsic at the round table in the Parliament were invited by four other economic experts just as you said on the other side, however they apologized, the way and this, that. But they were invited. We can't bring anyone in. So, we wanted to correctly academically in the academic atmosphere to face arguments and to come to certain truths or conclusions. On the other hand, what's most important, I repeat again because now we're being watched by Croatian citizens, especially pensioners or those who will soon become that, here in the pension system is too much fog. If management companies actually own these pension funds, 4 of them are bound to own around 55 billion kuna of government bonds, it's a government debt. So it's a debt of the state. Therefore, they own in their own hands the debt of a state which is still in charge, over-indebted. And we owe it even more with high interest rates at which compulsory pension funds finance an average of 5% of the same state. So that's why I said this is a matter of elemental logic of common sense. And that is why I call on this House to organise a plenary session because we gentlemen are discussing everything else and not essential issues. So far, here's six months, no topic has been discussed by this House as if we don't have any burning problems in the country. We discuss reports, we discuss this and that. Let's put on that pension reform, put on an election law, put on a monetary reform, so we put on debts, and therefore finally start doing what the Croatian citizens expect us to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11066	Thank you. Next replica, the esteemed representative Maro Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11067	Dear fellow Lovrinović, I am not professional enough to discuss this issue at the level of how you and Mr Maric do it, however, I have been monitoring from the media that Croatian pension funds have invested significant amounts in construction companies such as INGRA and Dalekovod who have large debts to banks owned by pension fund management companies. So I'm curious to know where he ended up with this money that was recapitalised by these societies and other companies? Are these financial injections of pension funds used to invest in the development or resolution of these claims of banks? And what do you think would be necessary in this regard to establishing a committee that should investigate it?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11068	Replica reply, distinguished representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11069	Dear colleague Kristic, if you have listened carefully to my presentation, I have just asked for an answer to this question in these reports that will appear is depending on the fund to the fund. It wasn't even last time, two months ago, not now. We're looking for final information, and I think, Mr. Vice President, that if that doesn't happen next time, don't let it come to the agenda so we don't bother. Because we're expected here to have attitudes with clear information, not just to see and hear what's good. Great, we'll support everything that's good and there's no one here who'll react differently to that. When you already asked that question if the bank had a bad credit to a company, so it could not be charged, then it can be assumed that it advised its client to imitate corporate bonds that would then buy a particular pension fund. So, in some cases, pension funds were cleaning up the activity and saving bad deposits from individual banks. So we expect this information, and in particular this is of interest to pensioners and people who allocate a certain amount each month for their future pensions. So to us here as much as this truth hurts someone, but we're going to be clearer, so we're going to know what's going on, and so it's especially important to prevent and I like to say incestuous relationships, and they can, they happen exactly the way I just explained it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11070	Thank you. The last replica of the esteemed representative, Ivan Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11071	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, dear Professor Lovrinović, one question, that is, your position and opinion, I am interested in. Reforming the pension system in correlation with the extension of the working life. So should we go immediately to 2028, 2038? Because you yourself said there was a negative relationship between the number of employees and pensioners and that there was no circus 17 billion kuna missing for pensions. Here's your opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11072	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11073	Dear colleague Kirin, thank you for asking. You have asked a very important fundamental question, so how do you endure this unfavourable position, or system, pension system that has very serious difficulties? Do you extend people's working life or not? ... I'm sorry. I'm gonna listen to what my colleagues are saying because I'm interested. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11074	Please, colleagues, please allow the representative to respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11075	This is what I normally practice in class when students are restless, then I actually come to them. I always listen to you colleagues. Here, you took my car, you stole 15 seconds, so please hold. So, to extend the working hours that time to 67, 70, it raises the question of the meaning of such a model. [[Intruder Ante Sanader: We'll leave enough time.]] Of course, in some professions such as doctors, teachers, teachers, perhaps someone can work for up to 67 years if the market situation really requires it. In this era, however, the terrible development of robotics, the technology in production suppresses, and technology suppresses labour. That's one problem we don't have time for here, and that's not the subject we're talking about, so we need to solve the current problems. We're not gonna get him off the hook by extending his job so that the grandmothers can compete in their daughter's competitions, even with their grandchildren, right? It's completely pointless and it's not the system that we want, that we stand for. So we have to have a healthy economy with high growth rates, encourage demographic growth to maintain the sustainability of this pension system, and on the other hand we really think about a complete economic paradigm at a level not only of Croatia because we are too small. See what's going on in Switzerland, EU? We have trends in the economy that we have never seen and live in such a phase of capitalism, especially the future where more and more people will not be able to work. I still can't explain it because there's no time. Here's a thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11076	Thank you. Here's the final honorary Mr. Dinko Novoselec.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11077	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Let me briefly streamline this debate with a few more details and data that I think would be useful in the end to say. Here we have had the opportunity to hear something that I am, which I cannot fully confirm is true but I believe it is, and that is the fact that this is the only Parliament in Europe in which the representatives of private institutions are talking to hand over the report to Parliament. I can't say for sure that's the case, but I believe so. However, it cannot be concluded that Croatia is the only country that has compulsory pension funds, hence mandatory pension funds exist and operate almost as I would say in most Central and Eastern European countries. The only country that has actually completely given up on the 2nd pillar pension system is Hungary. While all other countries have remained more or less committed to such a pension system as Croatia has. But only in this House are the mandatory pension funds giving their report, which suggests that Croatia has in fact made a step more than any other country in an environment that has such systems. What I would like to comment further was a lot of debate on the privatisation of Končar. I can't get in or want to get into it from the point of view of whoever made the decision to sell Conchar. But what I can say is these are facts that can be easily checked that mandatory pension funds have bought the shares of Končar at very different prices. As far as I know, the lowest price was 670 kuna, as far as I know, the highest price was 711 kuna. I also know of course how much he bought my fund, I can't know the details of the other funds. However, with insight into the ownership structure of Končar, you will see that there is no clear correlation between the amount of funds that the compulsory pension funds have invested in Končar and the size of each individual fund. What I'm trying to say is that from the aspect of us as a participant in the capital market privatisation of Končar was carried out in such a way that all the participants of the capital market were invited to participate in it under the same conditions in the same transparent way and I would say competitively. Another thing I would like to comment on because here on several occasions it has been mentioned and this is the central theme of our discussions within my fund and within the association of compulsory pension funds is why in B, therefore, the largest mandatory pension fund has almost 70% of the assets invested in government bonds that the legal requirement is significantly lower. It's like I said central theme and our reflections in both my fund and industry in general. And it is not a consequence of our wishes, it is a consequence of the interaction of all the legal constraints we are facing and the interactions of these legal constraints with the market constraints arising from the Croatian capital markets. We are also unhappy about the fact that this investment is so high in percentage and we would like to and we will try to reduce these investments in the future. That's also my fund's strategy. If we succeed in this, it also depends on whether other investment opportunities will be created for compulsory pension funds as was said here, the property is already over 75 billion kuna, reducing investment by 20% points means realising around 15 billion kuna. In order to reduce these investments from government bonds, some other investment opportunities must be created in Croatia. I'd like to touch it a little bit more, so the question here is how many pensioners from the second pillar, I'd just like to say that therefore mandatory pension funds work in a way that we don't actually know. So when a pensioner, when a man gets the right to retire from the second pillar, he takes the funds from a mandatory pension fund and takes them somewhere else. Where he takes them and what kind of pension he gets for them, we don't know that. So with us, the system of accumulation, the contribution to compulsory pension funds is completely separate from the pension payment phase. Thus, when we think about who are active and passive members of compulsory pension funds, we as managers in the means in the mandatory pension fund do not know if any of our members are getting a pension or contributions, whether they are getting as much as they should, whether they are active, whether they are employed, whether they are not employed, they are information that we unfortunately do not have and cannot give in these reports. The report I presented represents only one small part of my fund's business. All the details, a lot of other data you're free to look at on the fund's network pages, the amount of transparency of mandatory pension funds is I'd say among the biggest I've ever had the opportunity to see in the financial investment world. Hundreds of pages are published... So I invite everyone interested to look at the additional details and some of the things that were open here can be found on our website. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What was also mentioned here is the problem... State bonds in the portfolio. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I must say that the government bond in the portfolio of mandatory pension funds... According to the Accounting Act, i.e. according to international accounting standards. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They are who they are, we have to use them. And what is important is that the value of compulsory pension funds is comparable to each other, with all other similar systems in the world because everyone in this business uses the same international accounting standards. And thanks again for this debate. I repeat, I think it is very good that no matter what private institutions we are aware of, we are also representing a certain public interest. I think it's very good that we present our reports in front of this esteemed House and look forward to doing it again next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11078	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is Honourable representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11079	Thank you very much. Mr. Novoselec, you said that we are the only country where mandatory pension funds report but that there are other countries, it is not true that there are no mandatory pension funds in other countries. No one has ever said that there are no mandatory pension funds in other countries. That's what nobody said. But we're said to be the only country in which funds are being discussed. But no transition country exists in which there is no frozen pension fund, a mandatory pension fund, does not exist except Croatia. You know that very well, while the crisis is going on. As far as you mentioned Konačar, and the purchase of Končar shares from your debate was concluded that you did not know at all that the sale of Končar shares would be announced. So I'm interested in how you found out that it's being sold... Concar, part of the package? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why did you answer only one package? Who did you talk to and who did you arrange this buy with? Or maybe you're not... If you're saying you're not with anyone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Will you resign if we prove that you talked and didn't buy shares on the stock market? So it all turns out that you have no idea, and you of the 4 publications have reported to one at the price offered and that you, in that market, have done so, that no individuals have done so together with you. Is that the impression you want to make? If you want to do it again, then we'll go with evidence that that's not the case. But just tell me, will you resign in that case? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11080	The second replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11081	Thank you very much. Shut up means I'm the answer and approval. From what you fellow Maric just said, it turns out, I'm going to be a little bit like this, it's kind of embarrassing and in my academic dictionary that someone from the government not to say directly dealing shares I'm not going to say because that stock market is an intermediary with a minority of certain pension funds. The answer we didn't get, I'm not talking to you, so I'm interested in that answer, but I would refer to you, to your claim, Mr. Novoselec, that mandatory pension funds gathers one central theme to increase the possibility of investment or less investment in government bonds and open up a larger space for shares. Well, you see, as far as mandatory pension funds are concerned, where people didn't have the freedom to decide if they were going to be there, I don't agree with that, but now I'm signing up and I'm very much agreeing that you're a third-retirement fund manager where people will voluntarily pay and then you invest wherever you want. So you can invest 100% in shares of anything, because people then clearly agreed with free will to such a business policy of the fund or the management of the fund. The funds that are in the second pension fund, these are the means I repeat to our people who mean, that's the third lifetime, they can no longer contribute to that, and they must never be the raw materials or assets that will only pursue profit. It's quite clear, and I say I totally agree in the third retirement column where it's voluntary, where freedom is, in fact, invest in whatever you want. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11082	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11083	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we'd like to vote now. Please engage to check the quorum. Here you go. Dear Representative Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11084	Dear Mr. President, the Croatian People's Party club of Liberal Democrats was handed over in the procedure of the Croatian Parliament's proposal to support the entire curricula reform eight days ago. As I see it, as we move on to the vote, it is obvious that there will be no finding today on the adoption of the additional points of the agenda. Can you since you announced last Friday that it would be today to explain why there is no inclusion of that conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11085	I didn't announce last week that it would be today. I said it would be in business. As always, I stick to the Rules of Procedure strictly, so I'll do it this time. And I assure you that this item will be included in the agenda as well as all other points. We also got from the government some points etc. All these points will be included in the business schedule. I guarantee it. There he is. Can we? Here's your distinguished representative, Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11086	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, Labourists, put the motion for a decision on the disbanding of the Parliament on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11087	I need to correct you. You couldn't include yourself, including this Dom.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11088	I'm sorry. I'm sorry. You, therefore, have made a public promise on a journal, to the journalistic question that this item of the agenda will be included in the parliamentary procedure on Friday, which means today. Considering that...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11089	There's another Friday, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11090	No, no, you're...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11091	Because on Fridays, we're putting it into the rule of that point and there's next Fridays.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11092	There's a lot of Fridays, not only next Friday, there's today's Friday, and you're exactly saying it's going to be a quick procedure and you're going to put it on Friday's agenda. Not only me, but I suppose everyone who listened could assume that you weren't thinking about Fridays, but that you were thinking about Fridays. So I'd like to hear your explanation why you didn't do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11093	My explanation is exactly the same as my colleagues, Beus Richembergh, that it will be a rush because such points must always be quickly included. in the business period, within 15 days. And it will be included. And now we can go I hope to vote. Please engage to check the quorum. Please score. 78 total, so we have a quorum, we can make a right decision. First we will vote on the report on the work of the AZ compulsory pension funds for 2015. The applicant is an AZ compulsory pension fund. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the work of the AZ Mandatory Pension Funds for 2015 is accepted". Please vote. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm glad the quorum has increased dramatically and in a strange way. 123 votes for, 2 abstentions and 2 against. I therefore find that the majority of votes concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11094	Next item - Report on the work of mandatory pension funds managed by Erste d.o.o. company for the management of compulsory and voluntary pension funds for 2015 The holder is Erste d.o.o. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 30000. Mandatory pension fund law. Due to the abundance of materials the report is not multiplied and is located on the Croatian Assembly website. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Labour, the Pension System and the Social Partnership. The government delivered an opinion. Whether the applicant's representative wishes to further explain the report. Dear Petar Vlaic, President of Erste d.o.o. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11095	Honorable MPs and respected MPs. I am honored to present Erste Blue Pension Funds' business in 2015. Erste d.o.o. the management company of compulsory and voluntary pension funds in 2015 managed three compulsory pension funds of category A, B and C and 4 voluntary pension funds. Unlike the AZ funds, we manage both mandatory and voluntary pension funds. Compared to 2014, the number of Ersta Blue Mandatory Pension Funds increased from 264 thousand to 273 thousand 833 members. Out of the total number of members of 2493 were members of Fund C, meaning the conservative fund, 750 members were members of Fund A, the dynamic fund and the rest were members of Fund B. The market share measured by the number of members at the end of last year was 15.82%. In total, 718 million kunas were paid in Erste Blue last year, with significant payments from Fund B based on an amendment to the Act of Action relating to persons secured under special regulations. In total, 697 million kunas were paid out of Fund B on this basis more than was paid and 17 million kunas were also paid out of Fund C more than was paid. The total assets in all of these compulsory pension funds amounted to 9 billion 878 million kuna and the best one was Fund A, which achieved a 7.22% contribution, Fund C made a 5.72% contribution and Fund B made a contribution of 6.67%. Fund B, which is the successor of the convenient single Erste Blue Mandatory Pension Fund since 2002 and by the end of last year, achieved an average annual contribution of 6.88% and more than 4%, respectively, was a real contribution. The investment objectives of each investment structure, the assets of Fund A were most invested in Croatian securities, observed by classes were the most represented bonds of the Republic of Croatia and then shares of Podravka, Adria and Luka Rijeka. Fund B, which is a balanced fund, is now overly binding. At the end of the year, 73% of government bonds were in the portfolio. The country's largest assets were invested in the Republic of Croatia, 87% except the national bonds of significant... were investments in Croatian shares, then all the sustainable European Union and the United States. In the assets of the fund is the most represented of all individual categories that I have said are government bonds, of which 70.6% of portfolios, Croatian shares 13.5% of portfolios, foreign shares 5% of portfolios and foreign investment funds is 7.4% of portfolios. The category C fund which is automatically filled with members of category b who are less than 5 years old until retirement and are entered into by members who have a minimum risk tendency and shall not invest in transferable ownership papers. ... the structure must be consistent with the liabilities and 90% of the assets must be invested in the currency in which the pension is paid. It is thus arranged for the fund to invest predominantly in government and other bonds. As regards the most significant investments in 2015, they concerned the capitalisation of Croatian companies and the purchase of Croatian state bonds. In February and June 2015 Erste blue pension funds participated in the recapitalisation of the tanker's... tanker shipping companies, totalling EUR 56 million. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In July we participated in the recapitalisation of Podravka with 45.8 million kuna. In August, the recapitalisation of Rijeka's port of 47 and a half million kuna, and in October 2015 in the recapitalisation of the Croatian Post Bank in total amounting to 50 million kuna. In addition to the significant ones mentioned, we were investors in Croatian government bonds, in the new emissions of the ministry, bonds of the Ministry of Finance in 2026, amounting to 575 million kuna to other emissions of Croatian kuna bonds of 590 million kuna, and we invested the rest in Croatian bonds issued on foreign markets. As regards the pension company’s very business, the total income in the last year amounted to HRK 61.7 million and the main source of income was the management and entry fees, and also the management of the pension company’s own resources. These are primarily capital investments and a guaranteed deposit. Total expenditures amounted to HRK 34.5 million and total net profits amounted to HRK 21 and a half million. Last year, a total of 28 employees were employed, and employee costs amounted to 10.2 million kuna. I'd like to point out that 3.2 million kunas have been paid to the Surveillance Agency. 8.3 million kunas to REGOS, that we paid 5.7 million kuna taxes and that we paid more than 3.5 million kunas are total taxes and contributions based on income tax. Here's so much about the business of our mandatory pension funds, the business of our pension society. I would like to say that we are already managing voluntary pension funds at the beginning, and here we are, Croatia, I think at this point the leader of the development of voluntary pension savings in Central and Eastern Europe. And some products are unique even at the level of all Europe, and in Western Europe they are now being introduced by the product of individual voluntary pension savings as we have known in Croatia for the past 15 years. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11096	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first to hold the debate came from a respected representative, Miranda Mrsic, on behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11097	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So we respect the procedure, so here's what we're going to do on behalf of the SDP club, and we're going to support this report, and we're only interpreting this further debate as a buy-out of time, because obviously the government isn't working, that the Parliament isn't working. Today, there was neither on the Croatian Radio nor on the show "And now the Government". So, I'm sorry that we're going to torture people from retirement companies to sit here with us because we said everything in previous exhibitions. I'm just going to add one more thing, and that's not true that they're all frozen out in another retirement column. Estonia is raising 2% of the total insemination these days. Therefore, not all the truths that were there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11098	Replicated representative Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11099	I agree with my colleague Mrsic, nothing in this country is working, and that should be made clear. And I think that this Parliament needs to be split up, stop the session, and as long as it is not known what will happen to the Croatian government, this is a waste of time and deception of the Croatian public, creating an attempt, creating the impression that this Parliament is working. This House doesn't work at all, there are no important points to discuss. And this House should stop this session until problems are resolved in the Croatian government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11100	Thank you. The next debate is on behalf of the HNS club of liberal Democrats, the prominent representative of Bozica Makar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11101	The esteemed chairman, the esteemed representative of the fund, here's the esteemed colleague and colleague. I welcome you and this is the second time this year to discuss reports on the work of mandatory pension funds. In fact, first we had in January it was a debate on reports for 2014 when we first discussed in this House at all about these reports. Since it's about private societies, there's a dilemma about whether it's okay. I personally think so, because it's still a public interest and it's a subject that interests all of our citizens. I must also admit that representatives of pension funds have respected our remarks and proposals from last debate, where we have pointed to certain data and the systematicisation of these data, so this time we have received reports on the business of companies managing these funds. Of course it can always be more and better, so I believe that it will also be adopted from this debate certain proposals and the following reports will be included. This is actually about reports on the business of compulsory pension funds for 2015, but what is constantly being carried out in our discussions as well as discussions in the general public is the justification for the existence of a second pension pillar. That is not surprising because it is a really important issue, a question concerning all Croatian citizens. That is why this issue should be constantly monitored, and the professional public should face arguments and the system should also be constantly upgraded. Nothing is ideal, so neither is this system. But in the '90s, a large number of pensioners had to do something about it. That's why it started this pension reform project, which was designed in '98. It was actually a World Bank project. Our pension reform started in 2002. Implementation is imagined in three retirement pillars. As mandatory retirement pillars first and second, first pillar of generation solidarity and second pillar of individual capitalised savings. Therefore, with these two mandatory third pillars are foreseen as voluntary pension savings. This time I won't look back on pensions according to special regulations and what they bring into all this because there are a lot of opinions about it and the impact on this pension reform is also. The reform was launched with the aim of stabilising the pension system and creating the basis for a long-term and sustainable pension system. Demographic movements were extremely unfavourable, and the number of pensioners increased. Of course, the number of pensioners and employees today is even worse, 1 to 1.19. So, what should be determined is the security of pension payments of all future pensioners' pensions is personal property in compulsory pension funds. It is planned that this 20 per cent pension insurance payment ratio that was so high then was 15% in the first pension column, 5% in the second pension column gradually increased in favour of payments in the second pillar. However, the relationship remains the same and there are proposals on the full abolition of the second pension pillar. Fund representatives also prepared a simulation of pension calculations and cited examples. These calculations look very nice on high gross wages. So I'm going to give you maybe two examples of what we've done with those simulations. So, at the age of 62, 35 years of internship but if all the time was paid into a second pension column at the salary of 19 000 kuna, the gross pension would amount to HRK 6285, of which 2756 kuna or 44% would be from the second pension column. So for those invested 25% in retirement would be 44%. If we take a later retirement and more retirement leave normally, the amount of pension is also higher. However, if it is a gross salary of 5000 kuna, 62 years of age and 35 years of payment there is a 25% deposit in the second pension column of only about 30% is payment from the second pension column, and pension is 2347 kuna. Unfortunately, we still have many who do not have a gross salary of 5,000 kuna or 3800 nets. The salaries are far lower, especially in those areas where the labour intensive industry is represented as textile, footwear, wood, it is especially present in my area in Varazdin County where wages are far lower than the average of Croatia and there are many salaries that are lower than 5000 kuna gross. So those who only pay the first pillar or the first pillar and the second one has no big difference. Because pensions will be really low in either case. And for a payment to the third voluntary pension column of people with such incomes, they really don't have the opportunity. Normally, the question of how to increase the number of employees, how to start an economy is immediately raised here, but I believe we all want to, but so far we haven't done anything like the Government and this Parliament in this direction. In the reports we also received a review of the income and expenditure of companies managing compulsory pension funds. Looking at the contributions of these companies from the drafts, so far the social funds have reached between 3% and 4% of the annual average. Small differences exist but are not as important as any member of society if they want to change the company which manages the fund or fund can decide. However, for the management of the social funds, they also collect certain fees. Of course, they manage 74 billion of our assets, so it's not money, it's property because it's the majority of our assets. It is evident from this and what I noticed that profit is extremely good, far better than in many financial institutions without talking about the situation in the real sector in production and service activities. So the companies that manage the funds, for all four societies now I'll say, that's 386 million kuna income and the net profit after tax is 193 million or 50% after tax. Before taxing in certain companies, profits were 67% of the income. There is also information that Croatian mandatory pension funds are among the cheapest providers of this service in Central and Eastern Europe. I believe that, but there's certainly a possibility of reducing these fees there's what's visible from this data. And I am a member of the 2nd Retirement Pillar, and I want to believe that my property in the 2nd Retirement Pillar is safe. I believe that the companies that manage my assets as well as the assets of the citizens who are members of the 2nd pension pillar are well invested and will bring me additional income when I retire. I want to believe she's safe because she's guaranteed by the state. I know that the supervision of the operations of pension societies and pension funds is carried out by the HAMFA which controls the legality, security and stability of business. This was what was important to me as a member of the 2nd pension pillar, and what we have to worry about as representatives in the Croatian Parliament is the interest of the citizens as well as of the state. I certainly advocate an argumentable expert debate, the confrontation of arguments, the decision-making, the political decision-making, but we must believe that what we have made and the laws we are now doing are respected but nothing is immeasurable and so on. And there were a few references that we don't have any analysis, that we don't have any information and everything else, so I took 22 pages too, but I won't be long, but I'm going to read it to you because I really want to trust these funds of companies that manage to still do analysis and that's what professional people do. Thus, the conclusions of the 2011 Economic Institute study say that at the strategic level, the balance and control of demographic and systemic risks is best achieved by an appropriate combination of the public pension system based on the current distribution, which is the 1st pillar and the capitalised system 2nd pillar. The calculations in this study suggest that the introduction of the 2nd pillar is not a source of problems in the Croatian pension system but are due to changes in the first pillar after the reform is introduced. The economic institute projections show that the current Croatian pension system will not have a problem with financial sustainability in the future. There should be no excessive growth in public pension expenditure despite negative demographic trends. In the future, there will be an activation of 2nd pillar pensions, resulting in a reduction in 1st pillar payments which will facilitate future fiscal situations. And there is another recent study by the INFO Institute of Munich, which in its conclusion on the pension reform of the 2nd pillar in the Republic of Croatia, states that its further expansion is needed. It can be combined with an increase in total outflow for pension contributions but not a reduction in the allocation by 1st pillar but by an increase in the overall rate for pension contributions, which is currently 20%. The study also points out that the increase in the 2nd pillar contribution should not be delayed since such a step is most appropriate due to demographic ageing of the population. Normally, the price of work is also high at this point and that any increase with these 20, by 2% or 1% or index point, is not possible or would not be good. But that there is a certain possibility and a reduction of certain other givings, the redistribution in that part certainly exists. It's all a matter of discussion, a matter of profession, arguments. I'm not an expert on it either, but I've decided to believe that's what's good at this point and that I shouldn't give it up. And the club of representatives of the HNS will support these reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11102	Thank you. The next debate is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most High Representative Ivan Lovrinović. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. The next debate is on behalf of the BM Club, Milan Bandic 365, BUZ, a respected representative of Milivo Spika.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11103	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. I'm going to try in short lines that it doesn't take too long for this debate since we've had a chance to discuss mandatory pension fund reports for a year before and about nothing has happened in the last few months. But a few things happened that came out of the public's eyes a little bit, which shows something that we've been warning about for a while and now it's slowly coming out into the light of day. So the issue of the participation of compulsory pension funds in the purchase of Končar shares. Has anyone in this country asked the pensioners so-called. the owners of these funds whether they want it or not? And is it the interest of the Republic of Croatia or not? And how are we going to challenge the same thing that private mandatory pension funds are buying our companies on behalf of someone without us being informed about it and yet still undermining it as an interest of the Republic of Croatia? It is not an interest of the Republic of Croatia, but this is a way and an indicator of how these funds could function in the future and how to gain our ownership with our money. In order for someone not to take this wrong, consider this more a style figure, we had early 90s conversion and privatisation when the same company was bought with the company's money. Now this is very associated with a similar logic. So we'll buy you with your money and we won't even ask you for it because it's clear to everyone that the pensioners or those who are going to receive part of the pension or all of it one day from this second pension column don't at any time control the cash flow of it or have any impact on their business because don't forget that there's no one in the management boards or any control mechanism from those who finance it. And that's funding the state by seizing out 20%, so that 5%, so a quarter of the total amount that goes out of insurance payments for a future pension we've come now at this moment almost almost almost, so there will be 15 years of mandatory pension funds at an annual level of over 5 billion kuna, which these... That goes into those funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And at the same time, given the cumulative amount, we've come somewhere around 2.5 billion interest payments. So the state is now every year and it's going to be more and more in mandatory pension funds I'm going to be a little rude to say over a billion euros that aren't there, that aren't there. Because in order to pay for regular state pensions every year, it must borrow more than 2 billion euros, so or more than 15 billion kuna. Now, what's the logic of you giving your money to someone to manage on your behalf and then borrowing that same money for double the interest. I don't know if any of you are here, and I've already said it, I'm going to repeat whether any of you here thinks it's normal that when you get paid or you get paid, you go to the bank and put it down by 2% and then since you don't have anything to live on, you go to another counter and you take a double interest loan. I'm sorry, it's totally insane. This logic is simply not sustainable. And we do it all the time and we know why we did it, because this is not an innovation of Croatia, this was a coercion, this was a coercion more than 10 years ago when Croatia had to agree to create these mandatory pension funds because it was among other things the price of EU entry in some way but also the condition that Croatia could be in debt at a certain level. So what do we have now? We have a fact and we have a situation that has been a common case in many transition countries, so on. ex communist countries which have now become EU members who have been in the same situation. And what they made the first possible opportunity, that is, the moment they became full members of the EU. They either immediately abolished these mandatory pension funds or they... either they've reduced to a maximum of 1 or 2% of the detachment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And why did they do it? Well, dear God, they don't increase public debt every year so they don't cause themselves any trouble. And what are we doing? Of course, Croats are geniuses in everything, even in this. There are no larger masochists in these areas. Because if they could hold out for five years, we're going to prove that we can harass each other for 20 years. And then when at one point we come to these mandatory pension funds in the nominal have 1, 2 or even at one point if mathematically it turns out more than the total budget of the Republic of Croatia who will then manage the Republic of Croatia? The one with the money or us? And you saw for yourself, money can buy anything. But then we'll get to the part where everyone says, I have so much money in my account, and that's my money. Anyone who says that and anyone who's been able to convince that is wrong. Nothing is owned by one who thinks he's already being kept in his name. And at no point does any individual know how nominally it says that it is in real life. Nobody knows that. Because we haven't seen a single report on who's one of the people who's making payments in II. The peace stake was lost on poor transfers, on poor investments or any of these mandatory pension funds that were quite a number. So find me in the Republic of Croatia and a pensioner who got a report that because of the misjudgement of shares that were bought and paid for by 100 kunas now had to be sold or only worth 5 kunas or is worth nothing because it failed everything. No one. But, gentlemen, if someone has lost how it is possible that this is not recorded anywhere, it is possible that no one has been notified of it and has not been reported for one simple reason. We don't know at any time, I say the real value of being managed nominally, and no one with certainty at this point can guarantee that from mandatory pension funds in 20, 25, 30 years will be possible to pay anyone and one single kuna. Let's go 25, 26 years back when they're in the pension fund, when there was money for 2.3 pensions in advance. What happened behind that? There isn't. He's got a cat. Suddenly there's nothing. Who's to blame? No one. It's all kind of an association that's going to be around in this case, with these mandatory pension funds. And I say again that what the Croatian Government needs to talk about sooner or later, or this House of Commons, and even make a decision, which is how to solve this problem so that we don't have to be in charge of money at the same time and at the same time give our own to someone else to manage. I'm sorry, but it seems to me that this is irresponsible behavior and I think that this should finally end and I think that the Croatian Parliament should be managed by the Croatian Parliament within its powers and the Croatian Government within its own. I've already said it and I'm going to repeat it and it looks like we should do it again, early in the '90s, and many of us here have fought to be on our own, but if we behave like this very soon we won't be on our own, because someone else will decide on behalf of us. I appeal to this Parliament to gather all the senses it has and to have a broader public debate and to finally stop doing it in such an irresponsible way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11104	Thank you. The next debate is on behalf of the HZD Club and distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11105	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, I thought that when two years ago the law laid down a provision that compulsory pension funds had to report to the Croatian Parliament, that when they submitted a report that the assembly would be packed because when it was explained why it was introduced into the law, it was somehow going in that direction. However, simply because of some of the things that were left and right and middle all at the time, we simply have to visit some things when the pension reform in Croatia began, which was intended to be with this reform, which should have been done by compulsory pension funds and then, in principle, come in today and discuss what has been achieved and what has not been achieved. So then the RH budget without pension funds was somewhere around 40 billion kuna and pension funds were together, so health and pension amounted to about 25.26 billion kuna and were out of the state budget. So in that environment use kind of went into retirement reform. ... with this when we talk about pension reform and compulsory pension funds, we can't get past that moment and the financial market that practically existed in Croatia but had great potential because at that time on the Zagreb Stock Exchange they quoted at that time large and powerful Croatian companies ala Pliva, Zagrebačka banka and some other large and were expected to be one of the generators for the development of the financial market in the Republic of Croatia. So, those were expectations back then. At that time, the economic growth in the Republic of Croatia that reached over 5% there somewhere in 2006 when you took the average salary of 99, 2000, and what the average salary today in Croatia was after this crisis then you can also see how this growth of separation was in the state budget and also mandatory funds went at a high rate. And we came to this day where the retirement fund was set aside instead of 5% points should have been 10% points, so the one who implemented the reform and who was the brain of that reform imagined. Unfortunately, however, we have stayed or fortunately, it can be discussed, the withdrawal to the second pillar of the 5%-point pension instead of 10% points. However, because of the unfortunate bad relationship between the number of persons employed and the number of pensioners in the Republic of Croatia, the difference between what is paid for pensions and what is added to the fund from which pensions should be paid is extremely large, logically and every year it has grown, and because of the economic crisis that started there in 2008 the possibility of increasing the isolation in the second pillar of pension has practically disappeared. However, as it is today and this should be said openly here in some way, the separation in the second pillar of pension creates a deficit of 5 billion kuna larger in the state budget, so we must also count that in 6 or 7 years, mandatory pension funds will be the biggest generator for reducing public debt growth in the Republic of Croatia. Why? So because the first generation will start to receive one part of the pension and it will be about 25-40% of how whoever from the second pillar is actually what we call it or from compulsory pension funds, the amount from which at this point amounts to slightly less than 37 billion kuna in the state budget will be reduced in such a way that the difference between the raised funds from the pension contribution and what needs to be paid out of salaries will be reduced. So it's kind of a school language thing like that. I, too, honestly said that when we introduced a proposal from the former government to commit pension funds to submit a report to the Croatian Parliament on their business, I expected these discussions to go on in the second week, that perhaps we would discuss it differently. I may now say something that may seem blasphemous to some, but it best shows how we are politically thinking about how it suits us at some point, that's how we talk and think, it's now an investment in mandatory pension funds in Končar. I'm not going to go into that price at all right now, that. So, on the one hand, when it suits us, we say that pension funds have to invest in the economy of the Republic of Croatia, and on the other hand, when that happens, then we say why it happened, it could have gone one way or another. So, we will finally have to make a decision in the future whether the Republic of Croatia should be the owner of some companies that, without additional financial injections, cannot make a certain step. Or we'll say it's better to have a company in which one can invest so much and so much money, and that company can open 100 or 200 jobs tomorrow and thus make one contribution to all the progress of the Republic of Croatia and watch it sell in such a way or watch it load on some practically impossible of its own development and wonder when someone else comes to our market tomorrow and simply shut down that company. So, in one way, it was supposed to be a function of mandatory pension funds not to save the companies that are sinking and not being helped, because then it's ruining double the money of the state budget. On the one hand, the state had to be tasked with covering that pension payment amount. On the other hand, our future, actually we future pensioners will not get the desired income and profit in the state budget that should be paid off tomorrow. So the only quality and good governance is that they estimate in which a good domestic company can invest, can contribute to increasing the number of employees. Because look, this whole problem that we're talking about when we're discussing the state budget, even now that we're talking about mandatory pension funds, which is the problem of this huge disproportionate state budget between the need for pensions and what is collected. And finally, the result is the biggest tragedy that somewhere around 850,000 Croatian pensioners have a pension below 3 and a half thousand kuna. So is that a mechanism that can change it or not? And I wish that we might have discussed it that way today, and that's why in some ways the intention was to discuss every pension fund in a different way. Why? Well, because they're mutually competitive. And it was logical that through one such debate, so what you can, what you want and how you can fertilize those money paid by Croatian citizens to hear from them in what direction these mandatory funds go in the future. So, I'm honestly saying I expected something like that. Unfortunately, however, we stick to our standing because we want to recognise ourselves or not to recognise the financial market in Croatia today, regardless of what we are talking about, which more serious company is quoted today on the Zagreb Stock Exchange. You basically have those few INA shares that you don't actually trade with. No more serious Croatian company is listed on the Zagreb Stock Exchange. This means that the financial market for Croatia does not exist. And those who are in London the other day, I will not talk about the background, and we can also talk about it, that someone told us that I was avoiding, said that we would have to pay an interest rate of 5% on our bonds even though, no matter what, Croatia does not deserve a higher interest rate of 2.75 maximum 3% and I am responsible for this speaker. Well, no matter what the world's experts tell you. If we had a developed financial market then at this point we would have a reserve with business banks and mandatory funds that I can say so, not on the political line, but in the protection of our own interests, help the state to overcome this blackmail in a certain way. And if that financial market had developed in that direction, if our banks had thought differently, we would have had this spare instrument that could respond to those other gentlemen you've ripped us up a lot, you won't. And when I talk about mandatory pension funds, then we need to talk about it that way, because they get about five billion kunas a year. When I talk about them, no one here, left or right, has the right to politicize. Why? So because these mandatory pension funds are guarantees at this point we can talk about them one way or another, but good governance with them is the guarantee of a better standard of Croatian pensioners in the future. Because if that's not the case, then it's better at this point to say gentlemen don't be angry, we'll change the law, we'll end it, everything you've invested in Croatia we'll take in this way. We'll take the pension payment. Because the basic debate that needs to be in this today is whether these mandatory pension funds guarantee a better standard for Croatian pensioners in the future. I think that's the key question. And when you get an answer to that question, then we can talk in one way or another. But I repeat, all these four funds are a competitive fund. They're not brothers from the joint bag, they're neither brothers nor different bags, they're competitors. And so the simple debate about them today cannot be united at all. Each of the fund's leaders has been given the opportunity to practically in an hour of their free appearance and occasional reporting is being promoted why its fund is better and better quality than this other fund. If we start discussing compulsory pension funds in Croatia in such a way, when we start discussing whether in two or three years we will be able to single out six or seven percent in the second pillar of retirement, then we will say that we have one politically responsible debate regarding all pensioners regardless of which political option they belong. Because of these 850,000 pensioners who currently have a pension below $3,000 are all political options. It is not reserved for HDZ, for SDPs, for HNSs, or MOSTs. So there are all Croatian citizens. And the debate on these funds should just go in this direction, to finally have someone answer, so the good thing we're going to do, which is what the Croatian pensioners will get with it in the future. Because someone who suggested it had some good intentions. Is that going in the right direction, is someone in '99? or in 2000 he knew that in 2009 a financial and economic breakdown would happen not only in Croatia in the world is difficult to say. But when you look at today who buys Croatian bonds in the world? Look, the minister can give you in that book orders how many funds have been reported, so you will see that the biggest buyers of Croatian bonds are just the funds that are organised in one way or another, the biggest buyers of Croatian bonds. And then we're talking here, is, they bought Croatian bonds. Well, they better have bought them than to be bought by some American fund. If they are already there, if they already exist and if they are already separated by Croatian citizens. So if the contribution to Croatian bonds is at this point relative to most of the bonds is extremely high, they better get pension funds from Croatia than get some kind of white world pension funds. Because unfortunately, because of the situation in our budget, we have to be in debt so much and so much because of what's been going on in the past. We have to reprogram so many loans a year. Therefore, it is better for these interest and that money to be paid to our mandatory pension funds. But I'm saying, I honestly expected the debate to go in a different direction and in a different way, but obviously we're not able to get away from politics here or when we're talking about real things. But I repeat, one who thinks that mandatory pension funds should be abolished should be said. I can discuss that too, though. One of the first to say that I needed 40 billion at that point to withdraw to the state budget because it was of national interest that I was in the 2nd month of 2009, so they crucified me like Jesus Christ. The same ones who are saying today that these funds should be abolished. But then it couldn't be borrowed anywhere, then the world's stock exchanges didn't exist. Croatia was one of the first countries in Europe to issue bonds on the US market in 10 months 2009. But look at the situation. So if it wasn't a national interest then to go in another direction for 6 or 7 years when the assets of those funds grew twice, I don't think so. And what's very important is what I said and last time I think that, no matter what the report says, these funds had certain losses in those times of crisis, but they had far less than others. And these funds are in that financial Croatia package where Croatia is one of the few countries where virtually no financial institution in the financial economic crisis has experienced a breakdown. It's our big advantage today over everyone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11106	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first distinguished representative of Milivo Spik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11107	Thank you very much. Comrade Shucker, just one little clarification for those who follow this and who are interested in this whole story. Mandatory pension funds do not take government bonds because they love Croatia but because it is a legal obligation in a particular procedure. And one other thing now, one logical question that arises when you say it's good for mandatory pension funds to invest in our domestic companies, to buy shares and everything. However, they do not buy this on behalf of the Republic of Croatia and because of the interests of the Republic of Croatia but also because of political agreement with those they decide either for their own personal and for the interests of the monetary institution. So they have absolutely no obligation to fulfill any musical desire of the Croatian Parliament or of the Croatian government since they operate alone and have their own business policy that we cannot influence. If that is already such a logic, then the simplest question is so why don't we let any financial institution in Europe or the world buy by that same HAC, HAC-ONC or any other company tomorrow. Finally, someone can come and buy all of Croatia, if we will allow it to be realised in such a way.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11108	Replication response, esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11109	First fellow Spica, you were saying exactly the opposite of what I was saying. So my entire debate went into the context that politics has nothing to interfere with. It's the only way it can work. The second thing, at a time when the financial market was not developed in Croatia, at times when the Croatian state had a budget in 2000 and 2001 was over 6.5% was the logical thing when something moves at the beginning to legally limit it from going into risky investments. It's very simple. It was therefore in the first law that compulsory pension funds in the securities of the Republic of Croatia had to invest so much and so much money. At that point, the interest rate for Croatia was over 6% everywhere in the world. Wherever they invested the risk they could only get such an interest rate and then the logical thing is that they get from those 6% rather than someone else. I spoke in that context. And today I say when Croatia unfortunately still has a very high interest rate, state and economy compared to everyone else, so I prefer that these bonds buy mandatory pension funds if they see their interest here rather than buy them the same funds. I told you to look who buys Croatian government bonds, so you'll see that in 80% of the cases, these are funds that are in one way or another related to the payments of some citizens, whether they're pensions, whether it's one way or another, but they're such funds. So, in that context, I was talking. The second thing I'm going to do is I'm going to be against the fact that anyone can order mandatory pension funds to invest money in that and that company. It's out of economic logic, it's out of financial logic, and after all if you tell someone that they have to invest money and he's obviously here because if he had that business interest he'd invest that money, no one should tell him. But on the other hand, even when we talk about this unfortunate HAC if it comes to this, Croatia's citizens, in an indirect way, rather than be owned by some kind of white world funds that you don't know who they are. Take an example of the Zagreb brewery, do you know who owns it today? After the Belgians who sold it to some funds, you have no idea who owns the Zagreb brewery today. And does that ultimately interest those workers there? It is important for them to have a good salary and Croats to have a good beer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11110	Next replica, distinguished representative Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11111	Here's my dear colleague Shuker, I wanted to replicate, so are mandatory pension funds necessary? I think so. This is the only quality reform fully implemented and they have a great opportunity to develop strategic Croatian interests right through investment in a public enterprise, right through investment in shares. But how is that used now? That's another question. How is it used? So out of 10 kuna 7 kuna, it practically goes into government debt, more than 7 kuna, over 70% goes into government bonds. That's what this is about. So Croatian citizens, you from your 100 kuna indirectly finance the state budget with 70 kuna. And now we have a situation about this one in Croatia. And that's a big exposure our country has, especially future pensioners. Why? Because a little channel A is used, it's a channel, i.e. A share capital, because the market is not so developed, and on the other hand, this cash share of the portfolio C is quite poorly used. But you have this situation, so out of 100 kuna, so the citizens of the Republic of Croatia for 100 kuna, 100 kuna to pay into a pension fund of those 100 kuna in the pension fund he eventually needs to get a pension. He said there that, there, it says that his 100 kuna, of those 100 kuna, is a pension fund of 70, over 70 puts in government bonds, de facto in public debt and part, only part 25% is in shares or in cash share. What's the result in the end? If everything works out, he'll get those 100 kunas and the offerings, but if it doesn't work out, there's no more than 100 kuna in that fund, and there's no more for the citizens. That's what this is about. So there's a big exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11112	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11113	E counterpart Bernardic is a little more difficult to answer for a political and a little political debate professionally. So at the moment the Croatian state has a surplus, there will be no need for borrowing. Another thing, what we forget and will not admit, and when we talk about good macroeconomic indicators of Croatia's entry into the EU's single financial market, they can practically buy bonds from EU members. Therefore, Croatian bonds buy these funds just because they have a high interest rate, have a high contribution however you want. They have a high contribution and they're in the interest of buying it, because the German bond yield is negative. Who's going to buy a German bond? Well he's not a crazy leader, I apologize for the expression, the head of one of the mandatory pension funds to go buy a German or French or British bond where he's not even 1%, and he won't buy a Croatian bond where the international financial says the market is an interest rate of 5%. If they get 4.5%, they've done a great thing. Thus, this is exclusively about economic principles. And when we talk about the financial industry, you only have three rules, political stability, legal stability, and then it's only your third profit or profit. But if you have these two forwards safely then be sure and this third one comes to you practically on its own.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11114	The next individual debate is distinguished representative Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11115	I will immediately respond to you about three preconditions for the stability of the financial system. Political stability, currently in Croatia. At this point, we don't have a government. Real political instability. Legal stability at a time when you have no government and de facto you have on the table a vote of mistrust for all members and members of the government of what kind of legal stability are we talking about? So we're from what you said two conditions we don't have. So from financial, it means for the stability of the financial system, we don't have the first two conditions. They're... son of a qua non. The other thing is, I'm guessing I don't know much about finances because I've mastered it with the physics that I've finished. What I'm going to say is, what's most important to the citizens? For citizens, the most important security is that they can earn their pension from the 2nd pillar after they retire. Because they were paying in the 1st pillar and in the mandatory 2nd pillar. They will receive a pension from the 2nd pillar only if the funds can pay them off. The funds can only pay them off if the state can settle its bonds. And the state can only settle its bonds if it is liquid, or only if it works. So, the key is the stability of the state in the right place. The current situation is that 70%, over 70%, is the structure of the portfolio of mandatory funds in government bonds. This means that citizens are directly involved in Croatian debt. Of the 100 kuna that Ana Comparić Devčić is paying into a pension fund with 70 kuna is covered by the state budget. It's a situation right now. Now, let's talk about how many of these 100 kunas more than 25 kunas now go into the development of Croatian strategic interests, in the development of Croatian companies, in the capitalisation of Croatian companies, in different investment instruments whether through immaterial property, whether through certain projects that the Government itself can initiate and in this way citizens participate in them and how in fact simply use the vast potential of 74 billion kuna assets of property funds to put in the service of development of Croatia and not in the service of developing the state budget. So I think that's the key question. We here today talk about how much more property, people who pay for it every month, all who watch this transfer pay every month, put where in the development of Croatia and not in the patching of the state budget. Is this an indirect funding channel which is on one side of the lever but on the other side and the risk. It's a risk if we can't settle our obligations. And as I said at the beginning, we have political instability today and then we have legal uncertainty. Well, I think it's clear to all of us that there is a great legal uncertainty in Croatia. The solution, I also see another solution in reducing the remuneration of just the entry fees for all members of compulsory pension companies. So that's all the citizens who pay. These fees can definitely be lower without being lost to quality. This can be debated here, it can be decided, and that would be how citizens would benefit directly. And what I will say lastly is definitely one of the reforms that was fully in Croatia was implemented pension reform 15 years ago. Definitely in my personal opinion, and I believe it's shared by everyone, it's better to have pension funds than not to have them. I.e., we better have a 2nd pillar than we don't have it, but what must be the goal of more quality management of the huge assets that the second pillar has and gradually reduce investment in government debt, in government bonds to the core of investments in strategic Croatian interests. That's what's supposed to be the key. And to me, it's the only thing too much to do in this story. Because if you look at the report, then from the report of all the mandatory and pension funds you see that the structure of the first and second pillar is slowly falling. So the structure of the second pillar is increasing from the first pillar, that relative share. And that's our danger. It's precisely because of the great responsibility of the state and the great exposure. And key, so instead of giving me, colleague Sabina, colleague Suker, colleague Ćorić, I congratulate him too, colleague Pross, 100 kuna in the mandatory pension fund how can out of these 100 kuna 70 not go into the patching of the state budget? That's the point.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11116	Well, here's a replica. The first is Honorable Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11117	A colleague Bernardic, we as parliamentary representatives, if we say that there is legal uncertainty in Croatia, then it is a disaster. Because if we do, then we need to change the laws right now. The one I claim is that there is no legal uncertainty in Croatia. The fact that we're tearing down state institutions ourselves is another pair of shoes. When something political fits or doesn't fit. When it suits me, that institution does a great job, and when that institution makes a decision that doesn't suit me, it's a disaster. That's our problem. So that's one thing. The second thing is that it is entirely wrong that someone must invest somewhere and that Croats invest in public debt of the Republic of Croatia. So they do not buy compulsory and I repeat it for the 3rd or 4th time in their discussions, so they do not buy compulsory pension funds from the Republic of Croatia bonds because the Republic of Croatia is simply issuing them. The Republic of Croatia has to betray them because it has to come to money. Well, isn't it more logical, given the high interest rate, that these are mandatory pension funds from Croatia than those on the outside? Should we buy some other bonds that have twice the amount? Second of all, why are there mandatory pension funds? So they manage quality with that money. To say invest in the company, so colleague Bernardic, see what your party colleague Hajdas-Doncic said about investing compulsory pension funds in Končar. The diametric opposite of what you're saying. So give yourself a political agreement what you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11118	The reply to the replica is Honorable Representative Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11119	I see you haven't figured out your colleague Shuker. Well, you've been Minister of Finance for a long time, so I don't even know when, whether or not even during the first Croatian president, I don't remember very well in that time. But what I remember very well is that there is no question here or talk here about whether Croatia should buy a German bond. I don't care about German bonds. Why do I need German bonds? But what I'm interested in is strategic development of the Republic of Croatia. That's the key. So Croatians invest, do not invest Croats in public debt directly but invest in funds and funds invest in public debt. So there's this logic, i.e. a two-stage, indirect co-financing channel. And that's what this is about. You know that very well. I think clearly that in this whole case there is a connection absolutely between the state and the funds which both the sea and the law exist. But we need to see how pension funds, that Croats investing in funds invest more in the strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia and less in debt. And that's all there is to this debate. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11120	Second replica, the distinguished representative Tomislav Ćorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11121	My colleague Bernardich, very short. So the level of investment of compulsory pension funds in the Republic of Croatia of 70% in the state bonds of the Republic of Croatia is the result of the market on the one hand. On the other hand, you know very well that the Mandatory Pension Funds Act that 50% of the value of their assets must be invested in some bonds. Therefore, EU member states' bonds, i.e. Member States' bonds which do not have a credit rating below the RS credit rating. In this context, if compulsory pension funds as a conservative investor do not invest in bonds of the Republic of Croatia, they can invest in bonds of another country. I don't know where there's some greater interest in them, or why they would invest in a bond that bears a lower contribution for their future customers compared to the bonds of the Republic of Croatia. With that in mind, it is entirely illogical to insist that these mandatory pension funds invest in any other securities compared to the RH bond unless we change the legal framework. And the change in the legal framework, i.e. the reduction in this flora, of this lower level of 50% investment in bonds, in fact, mandatory pension funds no longer makes conservative investors. You must know that the idea of the existence of compulsory pension funds, or II. The protection rate of their investors' money, i.e. shareholders, our insurance companies, and the simple creation of contributions for their future pensions. A higher presence of compulsory pension funds on the Croatian capital market would certainly be possible if the Croatian capital market was more developed. And Mr. Shuker was saying something on the subject. So you know what market capitalisation is in Croatia at the moment and we are all aware of the fact that at this point there is no so-called. The strategic interest you're talking about should be invested in before in this direction. What companies are these, or what kind of investments would bear the strategic interest that we all call for without it being the Republic of Croatia? It really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11122	The reply to the replica is Honorable Representative Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11123	Well, first of all, you should... You're in the government, you have the government, or you don't have it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what's key, what's the bottom threshold? You said 50% yourself. And how much do we invest now? Over 70%. Well, that's what this is about. So we're investing a third above the bottom threshold. So change the law. German bonds, I don't care about German bonds, I don't want to invest in German bonds. But let's see if we can invest in a strategic Croatian story, in a strategic Croatian story. Well, here's an example, but even now from this historical retrospective, it's a bit of a failure. He was led by his colleague Shuker and this is an example of the recapitalisation of the Croatian Telecom while you were Minister of Finance. This was one example of how the citizens de facto deepened the capital market in the Republic of Croatia and eventually they all robbed Bosnia together because the whole market as a balloon of soap blew up. So we don't need more capital markets and deepening the capital market according to the soap balloon model than we need strategically deepening the Croatian story and the response that these companies are, so I believe that the people sitting in the government are well aware of which Croatian companies are concerned, how can help the Croatian economy but most importantly how helping in the Croatian economy can help the Croatian man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11124	Thank you. And the final representative of the applicant, the esteemed Petar Vlaic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11125	I'd just for a little while maybe explain some things. First of all, as regards the minimum threshold of investment in Croatian state bonds or in EU bonds, the threshold is 30% in A Fund, the B Fund where over 97% of the assets is 50% and in the C Fund is 70% with Croatia's worth of EU membership, but... structure must be respected. That's why it's so easy for us. And I would kind of agree with both sides, here's the truth. Why do we invest in Croatian bonds high yield above that threshold, high yield. We think that the contribution to Croatian government bonds is too high and that foreign credit agencies are actually poorly perceived by Croatia than we and we think the situation will improve, so it is no wonder, so the GDP has started to grow as well. We believe that unless something is complicated that this will be a good investment and that we will also earn on the rise in the price of Croatian government bonds that we have already earned. And also, on the other hand, I agree with the team, we would like to invest in Croatian government bonds outside, but at the moment of the second investment, where we will always be home... this means that we will always invest much more in Croatia than is the share of Croatia in the global GDP and the share of Croatian markets and capital in the world capital market and there is no dilemma at all and we want to do so and we want to invest in Croatian companies and we have invested in Croatian companies. Last year, more than 800 million kunas of capitalisation of Croatian companies were invested in pension funds, 47% of all funds for capitalisation were intended for Croatian pension funds. I think investment in Končar is a very good investment in Končar, why? First of all, Končar is a solid company that says the same thing about Končar's past. We think that it can be even better and that the value of the Concar is in the future that it will be more important. There's one more thing I'd like to connect to. When we talk about the second pillar, the yield is 5.88% a year on average from the establishment, that says it all. We're at the top of making pension funds. Secondly, as for the 22.5% share in GDP, the assets of pension funds, it's already a significant share but it's a very small share when we look at the Dutch, voluntary compulsory pension fund, they have a little complicated system so I don't get in, 159% of GDP. Island 146, Australia 110, Great Britain 96, USA 83%, where we're from, very, very far away. When it comes to freezing the second pillar, it is said that there is no second pillar. That's not true. The second pillar exists, somewhere frozen, for some time, the rates they said would increase, have not increased, but have gone particularly to the Baltic countries, Bulgaria, Romania is developing. What no one mentioned, the UK introduced a second pillar in 2012. They also think about some other developed countries, Scandinavian countries have such a system, Switzerland see is not identical to ours but exists. There are huge amounts in pension funds, pension funds are the largest investors in the Western world, pension funds invest both in homes and abroad. I think that the future of Croatian pension funds should never be questioned by the need to further strengthen the third pillar, there should be some additional incentives for voluntary pension funds. The whole world is about this because Croatian demographics tell us that this system is not sustainable over the longer term and we think that the first pillar pensions, the first pillar pension calculation, will change significantly, and that these with higher incomes will have to get a much larger share from the second pillar than from the first pillar, that in the future of the first pillar pension will come closer. Currently, according to the calculation, it tells us 25% of the funds in the second pillar of the total pension allocations, so 25% of the outflows on average will receive a pension of 44% and that's over. And we don't need to talk any further, so the justification of the second pillar definitely exists. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11126	We have two replicas. First respected representative Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11127	I wanted to replicate in this part of the offering. Yes, it's true, the offering is solid. Why? Because it's a big interest on which the state is in debt. That's the key reason for the offering. We have over 70% in government instruments. So, if the state is in charge of big interest, then we who invest all the money in state instruments have a bigger contribution. In approaching the Greek scenario, that would be if you came one year and said 20% of Greece's government bond, right? And we're going to have a 20 percent retirement base, but I don't care if I'm going to go bankrupt. That's what this is about, so we have to cut that structure down. Why are we in because of some medium-developed countries because the second pillar is mandatory and why we are not in because of these best ones you have just set from the United States to the Netherlands as an example because the third pillar is not adequately used. So our task is to attract, deepen the financial market right through the third pillar. It didn't fully live. But otherwise you said everything exactly, I agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11128	Another replica, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11129	It's not a classic replica. I'd like to commend one honesty because it's very important. When we say it, it's very interesting and significant. When we say that there are going to be different formulas for calculating pensions for those especially when they have larger separations in the second column. Yeah, for them it's going to be this classic formula. But I said in my statement that the first and second pillars are not islands, but where one stops, the other continues and the solution must be found. For those who are not lucky to have high wages, or they will have low wages all the time, the intervention from the first pillar will be higher for them. So we need to know in advance that they're going to predict what your cases are going to be like. So I'm glad you said that, and I'm just confirming the importance that we're going to have to work a lot, a lot on the overall pension system and this relationship between the first, second and third pension pillars, and we really need to see them as one body. It's three pillars, but it's one body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11130	Thank you. I'm closing this debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met and we'll continue at 3:00. It's 13:30.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11131	Next is the report on the work of compulsory pension funds managed by Erste d.o.o. the management company of compulsory and voluntary pension funds for 2015. The applicant is Erste d.o.o. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The report on the work of compulsory pension funds managed by Erste d.o.o. Company for the Management of Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds for 2015.’ Please vote. Who's in? I'm asking for a result. 122 for, 2 abstentions and 2 against. I find that most of the votes have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11132	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] The next item is - Report on the work of compulsory pension funds of PBZ Croatia insurance for 2015 The applicant is PBZ Croatia insurance based on Article 150. Mandatory pension fund law. Due to the size of the material the report is multiplied and is located on the website. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Labour, the Pension System and the Social Partnership. The government delivered an opinion. Does the applicant want a representative? Dear Mrs. Renata Kashnar-Putar, member of the board. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11133	Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. The Company for the Management of Mandatory Pension Funds PBZ Croatia manages three compulsory pension funds of category A, category B and category C in which on 31.12.2015 there were 311 591 members with 11.98 billion kuna assets. The Category A Fund made an annual contribution of 8.03%, the category B fund made a contribution of 7.01% and the category C fund made a contribution of 6.54% which totaled 758.70 million kuna. With the yield achieved during 2015, there was a certain reduction in credit risk, and liquidity risks were relatively low. So the total volatility of the portfolio was slightly lower than the average volatility of the portfolio over the past 3 years. In addition, during the period there were no negative events around the issuers of the securities that we had in the portfolios and there were no reductions in value. Of the more important activities we further cite participation in the recapitalisations of Podravka, Luka Rijeka,... Croatian postal banks and the Zagreb Stock Exchange, totalling 234 million kuna, thus contributing to the further development of these Croatian economic operators by the mandatory pension funds of PBZ Croatia. [[You don't understand.]] Over the past years, 1.28 billion kunas of property have been transferred to the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute in accordance with different legal bases from our funds. So, by the end of the year, a pension insurance company was transferred 11.6 million kunas of property, based on the retirement of our members. 35.93 million kunas have been paid from the trust funds to the heirs, which proves that the property in the personal accounts of our members is nevertheless a personal property which they can dispose of in accordance with the legal provisions. With regard to the state of account of what the question was about and when the previous report was submitted and on the earnings and expectations of future pensions, also what our members most interested in data show that our average member, so the person who has been in the membership since the start of the fund in 2002 and during that period had at least 70% of the time and was working active and had monthly payments of contributions that so far paid about 59 700 kuna and the situation on his account on 31.12.2015 was 81 690 kuna. This means that the average earnings per member would be around 21,970 kuna. Based on the results achieved over the past 12 years, such an average insurance company can count on a pension from the second pillar of around 1950 kuna, and based on the valid formula for calculating the pension from the first pillar can count on around 3540 kuna from the intergenerational solidarity system. That would total about 5490 kuna. It follows that about 25% of the total pension contributions paid in the second pillar give about 37% of the total pension without the addition of which the members of the second pillar, in our opinion, are unjustly and unfairly not entitled. On 31.12., the company employs 26 employees and has had a share capital of HRK 56 million and holds kuna 35.9 million as a guarantee capital in accordance with the legal obligation. The company generated a total of 63.9 million kunas of revenue and total expenditure was €29.8 million. In 2015, the company paid 13.4 million kuna on behalf of the fees paid to REGOS and HANFA and paid a total of 10.2 million kuna on the basis of the income tax, contributions, membership fees and other taxes and income taxes. Out of the total revenues achieved, almost 40% of that amount has been returned to the budget through taxes, contributions and other obligations of the company. In 2015 the business of our companies and our funds were under the day-to-day supervision of HANFA, and the movement of the values of the accounting units and the value of the assets is published daily on the website of REGOS and HANFA and a daily updated investment structure of all our funds, key positions and values is available to the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11134	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, then I'm opening a debate. The first to discuss was the SDP club, a respected representative of Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11135	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I am sorry that the representatives of the funds must look at our torment, our misery and our poverty. There's not a dozen of us here. Obviously, this House needs to be disbanded and we need to go to elections, because I think that's the only thing we can do in the House to get the citizens back in office and get the mandate back and let the citizens decide who's going to sit in this House again because this really doesn't make sense. This debate debate is about what's going on in the Parliament. There's obviously no unity in HDZ, and on the other hand, I think this should end as soon as possible because it's hard to see this at all. So let's get our seats back to the citizens, go to the polls and solve this problem. Because what's going on in Parliament right now isn't just here, so it's all over the country. The country is suffering because of our situation. We're obviously hostages of one policy, one people, and I think it's time to make a deal and leave, and get those citizens back in the new elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11136	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11137	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The honourable representative injured the Rules of Procedure, Article 238, paragraph 1. spoke about a subject that was not subject to discussion. I agree with you that the country suffers from the four-year catastrophic policy of your government, your ministry because you have moved over 100,000 young people with families out of Croatia because you have not provided them with basic human rights and that is the right to work. Here you can at least appreciate the truth because it is true and what we have in Croatia today thanks to you too, Mr Mrsic and your ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11138	Replica's esteemed representative of Milivo Spik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11139	My friend Mrs. You say the speakers only show up to buy, spend some time, so what are you doing here? Why are you answering? Why are you wasting our time? Don't come back and save us any more of that time, so we'll deal with this problem faster.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11140	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11141	Mr. Spica, it would be best if you signed along with everyone to give our seats to the citizens because you didn't even get a lot of preferential votes and it's time to leave this assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11142	The next debate is on behalf of the HDZ club, the distinguished representative Goran Maric, not the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11143	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, Mrs. Kashnar. Well, we've had a lot of discussion today about both the system and the reports, only now that little colleague Mrsic has jumped out of the track. You're trying to banish circumstances, but it's your right. PBZ Croatia's insurance provided the most extensive report, the most detailed report from all other pension funds so far. I would not like to repeat except that the HDZ Club will support this report, but I would like to warn of several significant phenomena. Analyzing against other pension funds and analysing the business of management companies, we see that you have almost the smallest number of employees, half as much as others because of the scope of the job probably, but that employees' costs are much higher than other companies for managing compulsory pension funds. Over average costs for employees. Costs for employees are twice as high as for expenditure in the profits of other companies for the management of the compulsory pension fund. At 11 million, 10 million kunas you have expenditure on staff costs and for another fund that has actually twice as many employees there are 8.9 million kunas less allocations for employee costs. And the share of business expenditure on employees in total expenditure is significantly higher than in others. We don't know what the reasons are. I think we should explain in more detail why such huge deviations. When, one note that has not yet been spoken today, it is about assessing the value of government bonds. If we were to discount the value of government bonds in your portfolio for a minimum of 5% because it was worth so much after the failure to issue government bonds recently in London, what would be the value of the portfolio? And that should be calculated and displayed because it's a more realistic value, an assessment of the value of government bonds because we obviously didn't calculate that cost. It is good that for the first time you have also delivered a report on the management of compulsory pension funds companies but a recommendation for the future to make it more relevant, not to be on two pages. There you go. That's it. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11144	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11145	Next is the report on the work of compulsory pension funds of PBZ Croatia insurance for 2015. The applicant is PBZ Croatia Insurance. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the work of the mandatory pension funds of PBZ Croatia insurance for 2015 is accepted." Please vote. Who's in? I'm asking for a result. 123 for, 2 abstentions and 3 against. I find that most of the votes have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11146	The following point is: - Report on the work of compulsory pension funds managed by Raiffesien company for the management of compulsory and voluntary pension funds Carrier: Raiffeisen pension funds On the basis of Article 150. Mandatory pension fund law. Because of the abundance of materials are found on the website. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Labour, the Pension System and the Social Partnership. The government delivered an opinion. Representative of the applicant Ms Eva Horvat Marinkovic, member of the administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11147	Dear Deputy President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs. I am honored to present this 2015 report for mandatory pension funds managed by Raiffeisen Company for the Management of Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds. On 31 December 2015, the company managed with three mandatory pension funds of which all three different categories are, so Raiffeisen mandatory retirement background category A, category B and category C. In addition to the mandatory pension funds, our society manages voluntary pension funds, one open voluntary pension fund and 6 closed voluntary pension funds. Mandatory pension funds during 2015 have taken part in the initial public offering of the tanker's shares Next Generation to the recapitalisation of the issuers Podravka, Hrvatska postačka banka and Rijeka port and at the primary auction of the bonds of the issuers of Croatia's electroprivreda. As regards the Reifeisen Mandatory Pension Fund category 2 he started working in August 2014 and in fact in 2015 was the only first year in which we managed all three categories of compulsory pension funds throughout the year. Compared to other categories, category A has the highest degree of risk and it stems from the largest legal limit of investment allowed in shares of 55%. Of this, a minimum of 40% of the assets must be invested in assets traded or smelled in kunas and a minimum of 30% of the assets under the law must be invested in bonds of the Republic of Croatia, a member of the European Union or the OECD. According to this, Reifeisen's mandatory pension fund invested about 35% of its assets in shares and stock funds and about 67% in bonds, the rest are money market instruments, deposits and money funds. At the end of 2015 or 31.12. Reifeisen Mandatory Pension Fund category A had 1373 members, net assets amounted to 109 million 803 thousand 45 kuna, which is 26% of the market share in category A compulsory pension funds and only 0.15% of the total assets in all compulsory pension funds in Croatia. The total payments to the Reifeisen Mandatory Pension Fund category A with the basis of contributions and changes in membership during 2015 amounted to 9 million 315 thousand 505 kuna. Total payments amounted to 2 million 541 thousand 869 kuna and net, so we come to a net amount of payments in this fund of 6 million 773 thousand 495. In 2015, the nominal contribution achieved by Reifesen was 9.69%, which was real 10.35%, given that inflation was negative during 2015. And that resulted in a total annual profit of 9 million 238 thousand 835 kuna that we made to the members of this fund. During the same period, 473 thousand 690 kuna were paid on the burden of members based on the management fee and 31 thousand 579 kuna depositary. From the beginning of work, from August 2014 to the end of 2015 the nominal contribution at the annual level for this fund was 10.45% and the real contribution was 11.18%. Reifeisen Mandatory Pension Fund category B is the successor of the Reifeisen Mandatory Pension Fund before the time of the introduction of categories A, B and C, and therefore the category of Mandatory Pension Fund in which we have far the most members and assets. He started working in April 2002. Compared to other categories, category B has a moderate degree of risk and is intended for mid-age insurance. In this category, the maximum share exposure is 35%. The minimum percentage of net assets that must be invested in kunas or in kuna assets or in kunas is 60% and bonds 50%. Accordingly, we invested about 80% of the total assets in bonds, about 22% in shares and stock funds. The reason for the large exposure to the bonds of the Republic of Croatia is the legal limits I have just mentioned. And also the lack of other quality-prepared projects in which these funds could be invested. At the same time, the money market instruments did not offer adequate contributions to investments. At the end of 2015, this category B fund had 521 588 members on 31.12.2015. net assets amounted to 21 billion 731 million 818 thousand 904 kuna, up from 30.40% of the market share in the mandatory pension funds of category B and around 29.3% of the total assets in all compulsory pension funds in the Republic of Croatia. Total payments were on the basis of contributions and membership changes during 2015 amounted to a billion 521 million 464 thousand 226 kuna. Total payments during the same period amounted to 643 million 732 thousand 117 kuna. We come to the net amount of payments in this fund during 2015, amounting to 887 million 413 thousand 586 kuna. During 2015, the nominal contribution for this fund amounted to 6,41 and, realistically, 7.05%, resulting in total annual earnings of a billion 266 million 668 thousand 50 kuna. During 2015, the same period of burden on the assets of this fund was paid to the company by 95 million 309 thousand 222 kuna and to the depositary 6 million 353 thousand 948 kuna. Since the start of work, this fund has made a nominal contribution of 5.93% year-on-year while the real contribution was 3.74%. Again, we recall that at the beginning of the pension reform in 2002, optimistic forecasts spoke of possible contributions from compulsory pension funds of about 2% of the amount of inflation rate. Mandatory pension funds have achieved a better result than expected. And we're coming up with the last mandatory pension fund, which is category C for which we present this report. He also started working in August 2014 and also in 2015 was actually the first year where the entire fund was managed throughout the year. This fund has a conservative risk profile that also stems from legal forms of investment, given that this fund is not allowed in equity securities or shares. In comparison with other categories, insurance companies of older age who are pre-retired are foreseen. So this, like I said, is not allowed to invest in shares, and in fact this fund has invested its assets only in bonds. At the end of 2015, the fund had 6 thousand 730 members, the net assets of this fund amounted to 787 million 159 thousand 277 kuna, which is 35.2% of the market share in the mandatory pension funds of category C and 1,06% of the total assets in all compulsory pension funds in the Republic of Croatia. The total payments in this fund with the basis of contributions and changed membership during 2015 amounted to 267 million 956 thousand 706 kuna. Total payments amounted to 74 million 602 thousand 100 kuna. The net amount of payments means we get to the net amount of 193 million 336 thousand 606 kuna. In 2015, the nominal contribution of this fund was 8.71%, which is real 9.37%. These contributions totalled 53 million 703 816 kuna. In the same period, the company paid 3 million 11 thousand 88 kuna on the basis of the management fee and the depositary 200 739 kuna on the basis of the depositary’s fee. Since the beginning of work, the nominal yield at the annual level for this category C fund has been 9.59% while the real contribution was 10.32%. As previously said, companies have also brought a report on the management of society not only on the management of compulsory pension funds, these reports have been submitted to the Finance Committee. In short, I'll just say that our society employed 43 employees on 31.12 last year. The company's core capital is 143 million 445 300 kuna. The total revenues we made last year amounted to 139 million 521 thousand kuna and total expenditures of 55 million 787 thousand kuna. After the income tax is paid in the amount of 16 million 737 thousand kuna we come to the net profit of a society of 66 million 999 thousand kuna. That's it. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11148	We have one replica, distinguished representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11149	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mrs. Horvath! Here's a commendation. Employed 43, twice as much as in another compulsory pension fund management company. Analyzing the data from which you have now presented from the Mandatory Pension Fund Management Company it is evident that the average cost below is employed by you 278 thousand kuna and in the second, in the Mandatory Pension Fund Management Company there are 400 thousand kuna. The big difference, the more you hire and half as much as you single out on them. That's really commendable. There's something that's visible and I don't know what the reason is. In the expenditure of the fund management referred to in paragraph, the other expenditures shall be significantly higher than other management companies, i.e. the figure 4.8 million kuna, but in other operating expenditures of the company under the sentence, you have double the costs of the other company. So even the other costs are equal to the cost of employees, and the cost of employees is 11.8 million at other costs almost 11 million kunas. Doesn't contain this report that's under other costs, so if you can answer? And just today, we heard that it's not possible to determine how many of the members of the mandatory pension fund have retired. If we know he's not a voluntary member, he can only step forward on the basis of death or retirement. So can you tell us, can you give us that information? Do you have any idea how many members have stepped out of your society? Is that ten, tens, hundreds or thousands? That means how many of them have retired or died? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11150	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11151	Here it can, so the answer to the first question is that it means that the management company, in Croatia, can manage only mandatory pension funds and can manage both compulsory and voluntary pension funds. For this reason, it may be difficult to compare the incomes and expenditures of a company that manages only mandatory pension funds and those which manage both compulsory and voluntary pension funds, so let's say that these other costs, other expenditures in our item actually relate to that part of the business, means with voluntary pension funds managed by our society also with these mandatory pension funds. And the answer to the second question is how many pensioners are from the second pillar. I can say that only those who actually volunteered to retire from the second pillar in 2002 opted to be in the second pillar. So those who have spent their entire working life in this pension system have not yet come to their turn to retire. There are very few of them, I think there are about 150 or 200 of them. And the reason why there are so few of them besides that the whole system is relatively young is only 14 years have passed is that all those who now have the possibility of going to retirement can choose between the transfer of funds to the first pillar or the payment of pensions in this way or the payment of pensions through this part that is in the mandatory pension fund through a pension insurance company. And given this pension supplement offered to them by 27% of the large majority, it's actually more profitable by calculating pensions if they transfer funds to the first pillar. So she and this number of user pensions are this low.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11152	The representatives of the board, do they want a word? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. The first reported on behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11153	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, so before I started discussing the subject here, there were stories of only disbanding the Parliament, etc. I think we should talk sooner about how many MPs there are in the assembly and how many MPs are fulfilling their obligation to which they are paid. Not some things I use in political debates because I remember those who today call for the Croatian Parliament's disbandation that they interpreted the provision in the law that a report on the work of compulsory pension funds should be incorporated. And if we looked at the phonogram of the session, then it would be for us to expect on this side that at least 80% of the MPs would be present and that they were livingly and bilely discussing the results of the pension funds because watch until then those governments were previously untransparent, hiding something, hiding something, and we want to speak publicly, clearly, transparently. Now that those 100 voice reports come out, it's not. So much for politics and politics because unfortunately in Croatia today too much politics and too little politics because the right policy is responsible for its citizens and real politicians are acting responsibly. And as for these funds, so today was an ideal opportunity because four funds submitted an independent report was not as aggregated as so far as to discuss how much with the real potential, the capacity of the Croatian economy to absorb these free funds that have mandatory pension funds. So they have five billion kunas somewhere on the annual level. How much we really have companies who are ready at this time to change their ownership shares, whether in some other way we use these funds but under the conditions under which they are acceptable to those who have received 1 million and 700 and some thousands of Croatian citizens. So that's not what we're talking about today. Secondly, we cannot talk about mandatory pension funds being needed by those who need to invest in the Croatian economy, etc. And at the same time as the mandatory pension funds invest in something, then we criticise it depending on how it fits. When something that is simply unacceptable on the capital market is simply unacceptable. So on the one hand, the state has a responsibility if one of its companies has to answer to the market, one who manages the property, why and under what conditions it has given it is one thing. And on the other hand, those who manage the funds must not succumb to any political pressure that because a company is in difficulty they would have to enter the company. And unfortunately, it has also happened in times past, that there have been some political investments. And, realistically, if you could see what the contribution from these investments was or what the contribution would be in some way, and in the perspective, you'd see that it wasn't exactly according to the criteria by which the fund invested the money. And those are the facts. We can list these companies, we want to talk about governments whose time it happened? We can talk about that too. But I repeat what is most devastating for Croatia because I will return to what is fundamentally why, once we have decided on pension reform, they go into what they should have invested in, in fact, why mandatory pension funds have been established with one of the basic objectives of the development of the financial market. Unfortunately, there is no financial market in Croatia today, there is no financial market. And these funds have over 80 billion kuna. And what are they going to invest in? So the logical thing is that it will invest in the bond of the Republic of Croatia because at the moment, it is unfortunately due to Croatia's credit rating making the biggest contribution. You are very difficult to find some investment at this time in Europe that will make you a greater contribution than the bonds of the Republic of Croatia. It's our picture and opportunity and it's devastating for us both on the left and on the right. Because why? You can't change your credit rating in half a year. Well, you saw what we got now. I continue to argue that Croatia must not have an interest rate higher than 3% because at this moment, there are countries in this European market that are seen in the full balance sheet of a country and the potential of a country far worse than Croatia. But what are we? Instead of all of us being together, whether we belong to the left or right option, they garnered when they told us in London that the interest rate for Croatia is 5%, we did not use it to attack our own country. And that's a mistake, that's a mistake. Because just to say that because of someone saying that because of political instability, the interest rate is 5%, and we can really talk about it this way when we meet somewhere for coffee, I think we'll agree on the left and right that Croatia with all its potentials that it currently has cannot have a higher interest rate than 3% if we measure by the same standards as other countries. Because it cannot happen that the risk coefficient for Croatia is 2.75 or 275 basis points and at the same time countries in our environment that are EU members have around 0.75 and 1. So 2 or 3 times bigger than Croatia. And that's your best interest rate indicator. Because that's what Eurobor is adding, you add a little bit of cost and you come up with some interest on which you get the funds. So we need to talk about it here today. This was an opportunity for people who knew more about this job to get some information. Today, after 16 years, we are discussing whether Croatia needs or does not really need a second pillar of pension. It's a passe story unfortunately. The property of these funds is currently 80 billion kuna. At this point, the separation into these funds was supposed to be at some estimate 10%, and it's still unfortunately 5%. But I repeat, and with this I will end up, as at this point in investment, actually paying into the second pillar of pension generates a certain degree of government budget deficit and thus increasing public debt by at least 7, 8 years or 9 when the majority of those who, by law, had to go into the second pillar of retirement start to retire and when the cost of their pensions was no longer just the cost of the state budget and the Pension Insurance Office will then what was paid into the second pillar of retirement will be the generator for easing and slowing down public debt growth. So, the HDZ Club will support this report and I repeat, we are sorry that those who have talked so much about transparency today do not want to speak a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11154	Thank you. We have one replica, honourable representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11155	Thank you very much. As it makes no sense here, and I think that the discussion I should now raise as a distinguished colleague of Majeric's injury to the Rules of Procedure because you too have discussed quite some other things rather than just the subject but irrelevant. First of all, you should agree within HDZ whether you and your colleague Maric are investment or not, whether funds can be invested in Končar or not. It's not the opposition who made a decision on the phone session. On the other hand, as far as I know, I'm not an economist, but when a loan is taken and in a bank, then the bank sits down and settles before, and then he says go get the documents, what you need, and you come up the day you take the loan and they tell you to sign the contract and you already know the interest. You've known interest for 2, 3 months before you went out to borrow. What happened now in London doesn't look very common to me. So, if you had agreed before the arrangement, it's very serious, it's seriously agreed and clearly that the interest was agreed before you went to London. What would we go to London if you knew it was unacceptable? Obviously, 5.6% interest is not acceptable to Croatia because I don't think anyone crazy would be in charge of that interest in Croatia. Even though political instability is what generates it means by 2.5% more interest than it was intended to be. And on the other hand, no one from the opposition speaks against the other pension column. A fellow Shuker tells your coalition, so the people you sat down with to make Croatia different. Obviously, you've made her no different than you've made her worse than she's been for the past four years. And that's a fact. You can never wash it, these six months it's a disaster and a shame for both you and for the Most and the citizens of Croatia suffer. And it's time for us to break up and go to the election, so let's both go to the polls, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11156	Replication response, esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11157	My colleague Mrsic has never been in this assembly in my answer. I have never come down to a personal level. I'm going to try to do it now. So, not to go down to my personal level. But below every level is what you just said. Ask your colleagues what the bonding technique is, then you'll see that what you said is I won't use the word, I'll stay on it. Because it would never occur to me that you're talking about medicine, that I teach you a lesson about something I don't even know about, or anything. You've just said such notorious lies, but perhaps you've said the way you've worked. Because the issue of securities has its own technology, it has its own rules. And I'm sorry there aren't any Lalovec colleagues here, but a colleague of Greeks can tell you that. You never make an interest rate so early. The moment you get all the orders, when you draw the line, then you say we're ready to enter so much and so much on such and such terms. What you said was not true. But I'm saying, I'm gonna stop there, I don't want to go down, I've never been in this assembly to a personal level, not now. But simply, if you want to make a political point of justifying what happened in the last six months, the best way to show you is by macroeconomic indicators. You just don't get any credit for them. Croatia simply travels at the momentum of what is happening in the European Union and it drags you, it is simply a fact. Because if that's true what you just said, then the macroeconomic indicators in Croatia today would be catastrophic, because you said so yourself. Nothing's been done, it's been a disaster, it's been done. So what our environment dictates to us is that it brings us to good luck, fortunately. But I'm saying, I'm glad to hear a level of knowledge like this, but then some things cheer me up.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11158	Okay. Now we've exhausted the debate on this agenda point. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We will continue tomorrow at 9.30 A report on the operation of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. Thank you. Session adjourned at 3:38 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-08-0.u11159	The following is the report on the work of compulsory pension funds managed by Raiffeisen company for the management of compulsory and voluntary pension funds. The applicant is Raiffeisen Pension Fund. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the work of compulsory pension funds managed by Raiffeisen is accepted by the company for the management of compulsory and voluntary pension funds." Please vote. Who's in? I'm asking for a result. 121 for, 2 abstentions and 3 against. I find that most of the votes have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Good morning, colleagues and colleagues! Here's the custom I see already the hands are raised. The first is a respected colleague, Milorad Batinic, please.
