ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u18000	Thank you very much, good morning, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. We are looking for a break on behalf of the club, the topic of the energy situation in Croatia with a focus on the refinery in Sisak and INA-U. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u18001	Thank you. Before MP Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u18002	And the HDZ Club is looking for a break on the refinery in Sisak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u18003	Thank you. If there's no one more than a request for a break, before I approve a break, I'd just like to meet the MPs today to proceed with the 5 points planned. I'll have a break in 10 minutes. It's 11:00. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 11:15 A.M.]] The SDP representative club has requested a break. On their behalf, MP Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u18005	Dear President of the Parliament. Today we asked for a break to discuss one of the most important topics for Croatia, which is the topic of the energy independence of the Republic of Croatia and the INA theme, the largest oil company that has over 9.5 thousand employees and directly affects 5% of Croatia's GDP. It is a company that has large incomes, with which numerous affairs have been tied over the past ten years, with Hernady affair, Sanader affair, an affair of consultants, and it is therefore in our interest to know what is going on in the INA procedure. These days, the European Commission has asked Croatia to amend the 2002 law and to have a direct impact on that gold share that allows Croatia to manage and veto the key decisions on INA, so-called Infrarement. Today we are in a situation where we are aware that Croatia has very limited potential to influence the business policy of INA, but also the demands of workers and workers in INA for the maintenance of the Sisak refinery, by retaining production in Croatia, and these are for us Croatian national interests. This is why we call on the Government to inform us in the Croatian Parliament of what the Commission is asking Croatia as well as in the activities undertaken by the Government itself, how and how to protect Croatian national interests in the case of INA. We are interested in workers and workers in INA, manufacturing in Croatia, mammalian refineries in the first place and therefore give us the opportunity to the HDZ, the ruling, to take all the necessary activities to protect Croatian national interests in the case of INA. This isn't an object, nor could it be an object for any stranger. Croatian national interests, especially INA as an oil company, are above any party policy, therefore we call on you, gentlemen of the HDZ, to invite both the Prime Minister and the Government to explain to us the steps taken in the event of this request by the European Commission because the energy independence of the Republic of Croatia and the food supply are two pillars of the sovereignty of every country in the world today and we are interested in Croatia and in this field having complete sovereignty. And I would like to remind you that the last decision is made by the Croatian Parliament before the European Commission. Therefore, the Croatian Parliament is the highest body of this country, the legislative body and in its proceedings before the European Commission has the last word. It is therefore extremely important that the ruling government come here and inform us of the European Commission's demands and how it will defend Croatian national interests in the case of INA. I repeat, over the past few years, numerous affairs have been tied to the INA, from the Hernady affair, from the Sanader affair, the consultant affair, so in this way let HDZ surprise us now and protect our national interests in the case of INA. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u18006	I thank Representative Bernardic. The HDZ representative's club called for a break from their representative Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u18007	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I appreciate this statement by my colleague Bernardic. His appeal that INA is a strategic national company, as it is a vital Republic of Croatia, I appreciate that it calls on all of us not to party around the INA, but has failed to resist calling the former Croatian Democratic Community government on problems and cases in INA. But since you, a colleague of Bernardić, entered into the call for the affair, he failed to say that the privatisation law that was passed in 2002, which made the INA strategic partner of the Hungarian company MOL the owner of 25 percent of the shares then, failed to say that neither today nor then, he received an answer to a number of questions and doubts that were just in that competition in the INA, and that is how then the MOL strategic partner with 25 percent of the shares gets the rights of the manager who was leveled with the rights, the management rights of the Republic of Croatia which was 75 percent of the shareholder of the shares? After the 2002 competition, MOL received non-integrated management rights, they were not an integral part of the 2002 competition. But I agree that we are going through this because INA is today, as we have said, a strategic company, that we must do everything to keep INA owned by the Republic of Croatia, to remain a vertically integrated company, a company that will develop all its components and segments as production, both distribution, sales and respecting the partnership agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and MOL on the modernisation of both the Refineries of Rijeka and the Refinery Sisak. But what Bernardic did not say and what was correct was that the Government of Zoran Milanovic received in 2013 from the European Commission a warning that the 2002 Law is in line with the EU acquis. You failed to say that your government, not yours, were not a member of the government at the time, you were in the Assembly and that the Government of Zoran Milanovic on two occasions corresponded to the commission's proposals for legislation that would comply with the EU acquis and you failed to accept it from the Commission. And that, it is true that again today, the Commission has again asked these days for the law to be brought into line with the EU acquis. But the fact is that while the arbitration is going on in Washington while the arbitration is ongoing in Geneva, until the relationship between MOL and the Government of the Republic of Croatia is resolved, it is difficult and it is not easy to comply with the law with the acquis in part until everything that is tied up in the dispute between the INA, between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the MOL, has been fully clarified, which is why arbitration has been called. Since I am also here in the name of the HDZ Club, we want to be clear in HDZ and we are also looking for a way and we will insist that the INA remains a strategic, Croatian national company, that as I said it is vertically integrated, that it develops all segments of its business, so also research and production, as well as distribution and sales, to implement a signed and realised contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the MOL and when it comes to Sisak, because these days you are likely to know that they are happening around the Sisak refinery of things that are not in line with such agreement between the Government and the MOL that the refinery in Rijeka is also developing. Therefore, I agree with you that there is no partying about this, we must all be unique about the future of the INA, and on this trail I clearly hold that the Government will and the Prime Minister and the Government has already declared everything that is necessary for its further development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u18008	Thank you, Agent Bačić. We're continuing the session. Here you go, Representative Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u18019	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, please meet the SDP Club's request and grant us a break in which we would like to refer to the scandalous statements of the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Science, the education of Mr. Matko Glunčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u18020	I would very much like to give you a break, and since your club has asked for a break at the very beginning then unfortunately I can't take this break, but you used a break and then you can ask for some next time. I know you're right, but on the other hand, we have a schedule that we have to go through like that if I were to approve the breaks every half hour to an hour I don't believe we'd be able to finish the agenda. According to the Rules of Procedure, you have the option but at this point I cannot refuse a recess, you can request a recess later. The following law is: Final proposal of the Law on Amendments to the Household Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u18021	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I think you are the last person in this Croatian Assembly who should violate the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. As you said yourself, you know very well, the representatives on behalf of the club have the right to seek a break regardless of what they have already used it because it is now a completely different agenda point. I don't know why you're doing this, I don't see why you're doing this unless you want to kill the messenger or prevent this scandalous move by Mr. Matka Gluncic, but I'm saying I don't see why you're doing it. If it's so honest, I'm not happy about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u18022	So I absolutely support freedom of speech in the Croatian Parliament, although what this assembly of Parliament can praise is also the number of laws and the number of points, the number of hours of debate, the number of hours of reporting for the word, which for which it has double-crossed all previous Parliament's calls, which shows how much it is actually possible for parliamentary representatives to present their views, which is extremely dear to me. But on the other hand, I would like to ask for your compliance to take advantage of the possibility of a break from breaking the Rules of Procedure, and to take advantage of the possibility of a break after the first break, so it will be granted to you, but on the other hand, we have four draft laws that we should at least pass today, if possible on your part. Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u18023	Dear President, with all due respect let's not do precedents of this kind, let's change our Rules of Procedure. Maybe this institute is a break in the beginning, maybe it's also the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. Let's change the Rules of Procedure very gladly, but as long as we have him as he is, I kindly ask you to respect him. Please kindly, because we're creating precedents that no one needs. 10 minutes or 15 minutes of loss of debate and 10 minutes of rest and 5 minutes on behalf of the club will not disrupt the work of the Parliament at today's session, but one precedent will. In your interest, I ask you to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u18024	Representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u18025	Your Honor, Mr. President. You probably weren't on Saturday night, and the two of us who were here until midnight, and at 23.25 minutes, my colleague Pernar asked for a break, and the vice president of the Parliament approved it. So if we could have a break at 23.25 p.m., I don't see any reason why we shouldn't have a break at 12.20 p.m. Please don't break or step on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u18026	Mrsic, although I was not physically present in the Assembly, I watched the transfer of the session of the Parliament and followed what was happening in the Assembly, especially at this time which you stated, and I also saw the way that Agent Pernar asked and the same way that he did not actually stick to the topic throughout that time. But also as you say Vice President Reiner at that time, the chairman approved his break and it's not a problem. So you on the Rules of Procedure have the right to take a break and I can approve a break and it doesn't have to be broken by the Rules of Procedure, but on the other hand I would ask for your compatibility because if we don't in any way limit and at least no matter what the Rules of Procedure, we don't limit the number of breaks, then we won't do what we should do in quality. I'm not talking about what you want to talk about and put out as a possible problem is not quality and the Croatian public should not be introduced, I agree that it should, but I don't see the problem now which is why it is insisting at this time, not perhaps for an hour and a half when we pass another agenda point that we announced. But here, if she insists on a voter's representative, I can give it to her. Well, then, I'll approve of the voter's advocates. A representative from the HNS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u18027	On the same subject, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HNS and HSU Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u18028	She's been granted a break and the HNS Club. I really hope that this working day will not end at the end just on breaks and breaks and that as little use as possible of this space as someone's advert, that there really is talk of important things at the moment when a break is sought. Thank you. Ten minutes. It's 12.20 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u18029	CONTINUED AFTER STATION 12.32 HOURS Here are the esteemed colleagues and colleagues, the time for a break is up and on behalf of the SDP Club the word will be given to the esteemed Sabina Glasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u18030	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Yesterday on a television show, State Secretary at the Ministry of Science and Education Mr. Mako Glunčić commented on the devastating and below average results achieved unfortunately by Croatian students at the international PISA research conducted already in several cycles, he quoted me as saying: "These results are the average results, we are not only taking the best. In some European countries, worse students are told not to come to school on the day of testing. Children with special needs and national minorities also entered our statistics." Except that this statement is completely wrong, incorrect and shows the ultimate ignorance of the State Secretary at the Ministry of Science and Education, which is among other things a key person to lead education reform, curricula reform and Croatian education in the future of the 22nd century, this statement is also extremely embarrassing, immoral and discriminatory. The Secretary of State argues that the culprits for below average results are members of national minorities, and I believe that, in particular, by referring to members of the Roma national minority and children with special needs, most likely referring to children with developmental difficulties. The Republic of Croatia has defined itself as an education system in which each child should have equal chances, in which special efforts should be made to integrate children who have special needs especially for children with developmental difficulties, to adapt their programmes, to adapt the education system to special needs, yes, to the special needs they have and for which they are not to blame. The education system should provide children of all national minorities to integrate into the system, to integrate into society, to feel accepted rather than rejected. 24 hours have passed since this shameful statement by Secretary of State Matko Gluncic. No one reacted. In doing so, I think of the Minister of Science and Education, and I think of the Croatian prime minister. Does this mean that Mr. Gluncic expressed not only his personal position but also the ministry's position, but also the Croatian government's position? We don't know that right now. However, if this is only the Secretary of State's personal position, we expect the Minister of Science and Education to relieve him and expect the Prime Minister to intervene. If no one reacts and does not remove the secretary of state it will be a very clear message that this is the position Mako Gluncic expressed but that it is not only his personal position, that this is the position of both the Ministry of Science and Education and the Croatian Government. Mako Gluncic is not anyone, he is the secretary of state, he represents the Republic of Croatia, he represents the state. I believe no one in this assembly shares the position of Matko Gluncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u18031	Thank you very much, the next one on behalf of the HNS Club will speak to the distinguished representative of Christmas Macar. ... Ah, ha, the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament's esteemed colleague Vrdoljak. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u18032	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So by commenting and interpreting unfortunately in its own unique way OECD's, the world's largest research, knowledge and skills of 15-year-old students, State Secretary for Education Matko Gluncic, except that he inadmissiblely insulted children with special needs and their parents and national minorities, has ignored several key facts. First of all, Croatia pays for this OECD survey, separates the money from the state budget, and at the same time we have a state secretary for education who is trying very hard to defuse this research, to see how to deceive it, how to perhaps look up to some who are committing fraud. The purpose of this research is to gain insight into the skills and knowledge of our students and where we are and how we stand on the application of schools to know just these results what we should do not lie to ourselves, not to lie to others. The point is true. Another important thing we want to point out is that research has shown that the Republic of Croatia is below average and that is the fact. That fact should not be relativated by comforting that in the same or worse place of another country, it was heard in the interview. He says what we want, we're bad, but there's worse. Well, it's amazing what a man says, he's proud that there are some in Europe who are, by some segments, a worse secretary of state. And that's an excuse? Or given the size of the country, the number of people and the global environment are in a position of good enough to live the life we want as a society. It should not be ignored that countries that are comparable to Croatia in a global environment have shown that orientation towards excellence can achieve excellent results. Slovenia not so, the same history, the same environment, we are, we are neighbours, far better and they have no secretary of state trying to commit fraud. And if we don't talk about this, it can't survive, that man has to leave with that statement, it's indisputable to children with special needs. So we think it would be fair if all opponents of curricular reform openly said why do they care about our students being below average? Why do you want to be below average? That's not clear to me, that motive is not clear to me. And why does it not suit them that Croatia has smart, educated people with adequate life skills and skills? What's the motive for not wanting to be better? I'd like to hear that. Why are we stopping something? What's the motive? We want to be bad? Tell us what the motive is, so maybe we can agree to meet your motives to have children with perspective. Finally, once again as a party that will always defend human rights and freedom to underline that it is absolutely unacceptable to link the results of the PISA test to the fact that it is written by children with special needs and national minorities. Someone who can say something like this has nothing to do not at the Ministry of Education, in the education system. In this case, he's the secretary of state. Both minorities and children with special needs are rich in Croatia, not people for whom tests would be bad or perhaps ashamed of them, to leave them at home when we watch what the average of Croatia is. And the PISA test is an average and we must be proud of all those who write it, and the state, we, its ministers, state secretaries must wonder why even such results are with figures who do not even know how to apply their basic skills that they learn in schools. Well, I guess yesterday, as someone said, what is the problem with Tesla and Hopkins in this country? This is so inadmissible, this is so embarrassing that a man who's a secretary of state who's supposed to lead a curriculative reform cannot and must not survive this. And he would also recommend to the prime minister, both the presidents of the state and the President of the Parliament not to deal with chocolates or here parties with some ridiculous comments, but rather the essence of the free country. And that they urgently seek resignation and withdraw the appointment of such an unscrupulous state secret.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u18033	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23640	We're continuing the session. The first point is: - Final proposal of the Law on Alternative Resolution of Consumer Disputes, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 45. The proposed act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to the boxes. Contributions to the bill are not multiplied but are found on the Croatian Assembly website. In accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure, on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, accepted the proposal from the motion that this and the legislative proposal should be discussed in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Martina Dalic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23641	Honorable MPs and MPs. The law before you in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia transposes the Directive on alternative consumer dispute resolution and the Regulation on online consumer dispute resolution. However, I believe that the importance of this law is much wider than the technical transposition of these directives because this law provides an important mechanism for protecting consumer rights and ensures that consumers in a faster, cheaper and less formal way exercise their rights when they object to the quality of the product or to any other product which they have bought and does not correspond to what they believe should be. Alternative dispute resolution has a long tradition in Croatia in front of courts of honour, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. However, alternative consumer dispute resolution has so far shown itself to be a very small part in the overall procedures for alternative dispute resolution. Following this implementation of these European directives, namely the adoption of this law, a better approach is expected to be made to simple, efficient, fast and cheap ways of resolving domestic and cross-border consumer disputes, as well as to increase consumers' awareness of the benefits of these procedures. This means that this law lays down criteria on the basis of which bodies that have the right to implement alternative consumer dispute resolutions will be established. Once we in Croatia identify which bodies could be the appropriate criteria set out in this law, the European Commission will be informed and the European Commission will then put the approved bodies into a single database. The bodies for alternative consumer dispute resolution will receive, through this certification procedure, the authorisation to have professional and educated persons capable of conducting procedures, that they are capable of carrying out such procedures within no longer than 90 days, that those bodies are independent of the business sector and that the procedures to be implemented will be free of charge or with a minimum cost to consumers. Also, traders who will commit to the application of this system as well as all traders selling via the Internet will have to notify consumers of this option on their websites and on general terms. Alternative consumer dispute resolution also means that bodies that will pass the certification process will have to provide online access via their websites so that consumers can submit their complaints as well as the full documentation. The purpose of this proposal is to make communication as simple as possible by electronic means to alternative dispute resolution bodies. As regards the regulation on online settlement of cross-border consumer disputes, the contact point requested and prescribed by the regulation will be a European consumer centre operating within the Consumer Protection Service of the Ministry of Economy. In fact, the European Commission has already established an online dispute settlement platform through this contact point and bodies from the Republic of Croatia will join this platform and thus ensure both communication and notification of individual complaints. Since the obligation of the Member States to establish an alternative consumer dispute resolution system is also foreseen by the Ministry of Economics for the establishment of this system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23642	I thank Martini Dalic of the Deputy Prime Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic is chairman of the Committee on Law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23643	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Ministers and Associates, here I would like very briefly to express myself and to report that the Committee on the Law of the Croatian Parliament held at the 9th session on 5 December discussed the proposal of the Law on Alternative Resolution of Consumer Disputes with the final draft of the law. We have determined that the text of the final proposal of this law contains a declaration of compliance of the final proposal with the legal property of the EU resulting in the full compliance of this law with the provisions of the primary and secondary sources of EU law. I must say that, on the text of the law, this Committee on the Law of the Croatian Parliament has four amendments, all four of which are of nomotechnical nature. It is the one we really want to contribute to making the law so far better done, and therefore we call on the Proposer to consider these amendments and ultimately accept them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23644	I thank the chairman of the Legislative Committee. I'm opening a debate. To participate in the debate, the first reported was the HDZ Representatives' Club and their representative, Representative Marija Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23645	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, before us, a proposal for an Alternative Consumer Dispute Resolution Act with a final proposal for a law proposed to be adopted by an urgent procedure, as the Minister said in the opening statement. The Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts is responsible for implementing Directive 2013/11 of the EU and of the Council of 21 May 2013 on alternative consumer dispute resolution and is obliged to ensure, in accordance with the Directive, one or more bodies authorised to alternatively resolve consumer disputes which will be responsible for resolving all consumer disputes in the entire area of the Republic of Croatia. The Alternative Consumer Dispute Resolution Directive came into force on 8 July 2013 and EU Member States were obliged to implement its provisions in national legislation by 9 July 2015. The aim of the proposed law is to enable alternative solutions to all consumer disputes between traders and consumers, as well as this bill provides for simple, cheap and effective non-judicial settlement of those disputes which allow consumers residing in the EU to carry out on a voluntary basis procedures for the settlement of disputes against traffickers based in the Republic of Croatia and for alternative consumer dispute resolution bodies for all types of domestic and cross-border disputes arising from a sales contract or service contract. It is important to say that the choice of alternative consumer dispute resolution bodies is also important for the implementation of the EU and Council Regulations of 21 May 2013 on online consumer dispute resolution, which is also in force. In accordance with the Regulation on online dispute resolution of 1 January 2016, the work of platforms for online consumer dispute resolution should be started by means of which consumers could apply for alternative settlement of consumer dispute against traders from any other EU Member State without the need for the arrival and personal delivery of documents or delivery of documents via mail. All documents could be submitted by electronic means through a platform after which they would be sent to the alternative consumer dispute resolution body and the platform started working on 15 February 2016. In line with this bill, in order for a body to be an alternative consumer dispute resolution body, it must meet certain criteria, as the minister pointed out in the opening statement. It must also be accessible to consumers and ensure transparency, expertise, impartiality and efficiency of behaviour. The data and evidence of compliance with the conditions of those bodies prescribed by the law will be supervised by the Ministry of Consumer Protection and will, after the completion of the procedure, draw up a list of alternative consumer dispute resolution bodies and inform the European Commission thereof, which, if the body meets all the conditions, will publish a list in the official EU opinion. The body for alternative consumer dispute resolution is also required to publish an annual report on its work on its website, which will also make this work transparent. The parties may take part in the proceedings without obligation to be represented by a lawyer or other legal adviser, but shall be guaranteed the right to independent advice and the right to represent them at any stage of the proceedings or to receive legal assistance from a third party allowing parties to conduct these proceedings at no cost. It was also prescribed for a 90-day period from the date on which an alternative consumer dispute resolution body has received a complete proposal to initiate the procedure until the end of the procedure with the possibility of extending the deadline by an additional 90-day period in the most complex disputes, which guarantees an effective settlement of these disputes within reasonable time limits which are much shorter than those in court proceedings. The bill also provides for the obligation of traders, consumer organisations, trade associations and other stakeholders to promote alternative consumer dispute resolution so that consumers can get to know as well as they can. Consumers and traders still face obstacles to finding extrajudicial solutions, their disputes stemming from cross-border online transactions, and such disputes often remain unresolved. That is why online consumer dispute resolution offers simple effective, quick and cheap extrajudicial resolution of such disputes. By implementing the Regulation on online dispute resolution through this draft law, the Republic of Croatia will meet the obligations of EU accession. It will also contribute to increasing consumer awareness of their rights, as well as increasing the confidence of traders and consumers in the single market, which should also have an impact on the economy as a whole by increasing national and cross-border transactions. The funds needed to co-finance notified bodies for alternative consumer dispute resolution amounting to 350,000 kuna and €202 000 415 for the financing of two consultants for online consumer dispute resolution were provided by the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts in 2017 through the National Consumer Protection Programme and by redistributing it within the intended funds. As this proposal implements the Directive on alternative consumer dispute resolution and regulates the implementation of the online dispute resolution regulation in accordance with Articles 204 and 206. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, proposed the adoption of an emergency law, and I also support the fact that the deadline for compliance with Directive 2013/11 of the EU was 9 July 2015, and therefore it is important to adopt this law as quickly as possible. This bill was also discussed by the Legislative Committee as informed by the chairman of the Committee. In accordance with the Consumer Protection Act, the fundamental rights and the right to protect the economic interests of consumers, and the right to consumer protection of consumers, and consumers' holders, among others, the Croatian Parliament, the Government and the Ministry of Consumer Protection Policy, and since this proposal also goes in the direction of promoting and protecting consumer rights and interests in consumer protection policy implementation, the HDZ Club will support this proposal, and I call on all of you fellow MPs and MPs to do the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23646	The SDP advocates' club reported for participation in the debate and on their behalf, Pedja Grbin's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23647	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Vice President. Unlike my predecessors for this pay phone, I can't share the enthusiasm of this law. This law implements two EU Parliament and Council directives relating to the resolution of consumer disputes. They are welcome, but I'm afraid because of their nature, their character will be ineffective. Why? Well, because the conduct of bodies that will resolve these alternative consumer disputes is not binding. The problem is that we have a situation now that service providers are already solving some consumer disputes themselves, assessing whether it is in their interest or not. They are not guided by consumer concern, they are guided solely by the concern of whether it will be in their interest or how it will be realised in possible court proceedings and in a negative public image. This brings new bodies into solving these disputes. These new bodies will be able to intercede, however, I'm afraid this kind of thing will remain just a dead letter on paper. However, according to my court, the law in question has two serious problems that raise the question to how far it has been implemented and European law in our legal order. First of all, in order to explain what my doubts are, we need to pursue a fundamental difference between the regulation and the directive. The Regulation is a European legislation that is directly applicable. Therefore, national implementing measures are not required for the implementation of the Regulation. When a regulation is adopted at EU level, it shall immediately apply in all Member States. However, the directive aims to achieve a specific objective. Member States shall define by their national implementing measures how this objective will be achieved. In this particular case, I fear that these national implementing measures remain exclusively and only because the text of the directive has been rewritten and translated into law. For example, we in the directive have prescribed what and how bodies must do. However, the directive does not in any way prescribe, for example, whether an alternative consumer dispute resolution body can leave this settlement to, for example, only university-educated persons, for example, lawyers or lawyers with a legal examination, or anyone, based on a decision by the body itself, will be able to regulate who will and in what way will conduct the proceedings within it. Therefore, the amendments to this text of the law provide for the introduction of a special document drawn up by the RES, which would, therefore, define the conditions and technical conditions in the light of spatial ones, whether they must have certain premises of the body that they will deal with, how many people must be engaged in it, etc., meaning that they will define the conditions which the body that will resolve alternative consumer disputes or alternative ways of resolving consumer disputes must meet in order to be able to act. In this way, we think that it can be ensured that these bodies are truly alive, not only being a dead letter on paper and not just being an opportunity for one association or another who through this means wants to attract certain funds to cover their work. So that's one direction of the amendment. The second course of the amendments that have been submitted concerns the issue of education. The law stipulates that, meaning a body that has taken over the obligation to resolve consumer disputes, can educate people who will do these tasks within it, however, not that it has to. We're going back to the directive. So the directive set certain goals. These objectives require, among other things, that persons implementing this resolution should be educated. That is why the amendment proposes to amend this law in a way that the body must provide education for those who will handle this consumer dispute resolution and also again, so that it does not leave itself to the body to flatten, lapidary or whatever it is to decide what education is, issue certificates, etc., we have once again foreseen that the same rule issued by the RES ministry, the ministry determines the content of that compulsory education. In this way, we will really ensure that those who participate in this process go through education, that the approach to education is standardised, that the matter taught in this education is standardised and that all persons who will carry out these tasks at the level of the Republic of Croatia are equally educated, educated and have the same knowledge that, given that the legislation regarding consumer relations is significantly uniform at European Union level, both in Osijek, in Zagreb and Pula, in Rijeka, etc. In the same way, they resolve these disputes. The final remark concerning this law concerns the question of penalties. The Directive therefore provides that Member States must provide for measures to force applicants to apply this law to implement it. However, it speaks of penalties that will be prescribed must be such as to deter the perpetrators or service providers from dissuading them from non-compliance with the provisions of this law. We have groups of those who are obliged to apply the measures of this law, we have groups of those who voluntarily apply the measures of this law. We have an obligation, the vice president spoke about it when presenting this law a few minutes ago, we have an obligation to publish data on the obligation to apply this law on the websites because the goal is to make it available to consumers as quickly as possible and easily as possible to access these procedures. But what's the problem? The punishment provided for by this law is unusually low. For the offenders of this law, a legal person is scheduled for punishment, a punishment of 2,000-5,000 kuna. For what? For failing to publish on its pages a notification of the obligation to apply this law. So, I think it's quite responsible to say that for a large commercial entity that provides online services, and we know how many large commercial entities are done, if we know, for example, that Agrokor is going in the direction of an online sale service, a fine of 5,000 kuna, and that penalty proposed by the 50,000 kuna amendment is also not God knows how big, but it is still greater than this, but the fine of 5,000 kuna cannot be considered adjudicating in any way. So, I'm gonna finish this exposure. It is about the implementation of European law, however, it is about the implementation of that European right in which the Member State still retains certain autonomy in the way it will be implemented. In line with the above, this law should be supported, this is a welcome amendment to our legislation. I believe that it should also be supported in this form as it is proposed because, again, it is about meeting the obligations that the Republic of Croatia has on the basis of its membership in the European Union, but we propose certain adjustments to this law in order to make its application more effective, and I will repeat it once again, because it is in an important part non-binding, and it cannot be binding because the directive does not go in the direction of being binding. The effectiveness of this law will ultimately remain very questionable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23648	I'd like to thank the representative of the coat of arms. Representative Branko Hrg is reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23649	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Grbin, you said in the beginning that you couldn't share the enthusiasm with which this law was spoken in the opening part of the law, I don't think anyone spoke with any enthusiasm but with any reality but I can't share the enthusiasm with you either because we see here that the deadline for harmonisation was 9 July 2015. So it's the time of the government of Zoran Milanovic. The last part says that the European Commission can actually punish the Republic of Croatia for non-compliance. So now I ask you as a legal expert do you think there will be any problems and can Croatia expect to pay the fine because it did not comply with its laws in time with the directives?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23650	I'd like to thank Representative Hrg. Replication response, representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23651	Dear colleague Hrg. Now, honestly, you were the last person I wanted to impress, so obviously there won't be any problem with that part. The fact that a deadline for harmonising national legislation with EU law is never good and should not be avoided. But given that we're in December 2016 today, I don't see any problem why something we have to do wouldn't make it any better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23652	Thank you, Agent Grbino. Representative Goran Aleksic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23653	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear counterpart Grbin, we have a problem of violating, mass violation of consumer rights after which it was not followed by judgment in the collective court process and now we are talking about some alternative problem-solving. Thus, in the collective court process, it was clearly ruled that 7 banks agreed on an illegal way of changing interest rates that were unfair and therefore harmful. And it's been ordered by banks, seven banks that have violated the legal provisions that they can no longer behave like that. So the legal order is perfectly clear, so the banks can't act like that anymore. However, banks continued to behave, as a first step, did not return the increased interest rates to the initial amounts that they had to do on the basis of this verdict and in very few cases the banks were accused in municipal courts, first-degree and in an even smaller number of powerful judgments were made where they ordered banks to pay the amounts of interest paid to the debtors they had damaged. Later, banks again acted on their own free will when they defined outside the contractual parameters for changing interest rates under the Consumer Credit Act. So we have an example of a mass violation of consumer rights. These violations have been confirmed by a collective court verdict, these violations can be punished under the Consumer Credit Act, however, the CNB does not act in any way as a regulator, the Ministry of Finance has not acted as a regulator, the Parliament has not acted in any way as a legislative body, and therefore we have a situation where hundreds of thousands of consumers are actually damaged by the failure of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23654	Thank you, Agent Alexic. Replication response, representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23655	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow, you are now talking about the institutional resolution of consumer disputes you have talked about the problems consumers face and at those times when these disputes are trying to solve in a well-informed institutional way. You mentioned the Consumer Credit Act, for example great, it's a great parallel. Why? Because there is a penalty provided if I am not wrong about the bank, so the service provider is up to two hundred thousand kunas per case if he does not comply with the contract with the legal provisions and not only contracts profuturo but also those contracts that are already in force. Such a legal provision was confirmed by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, such a legal provision was confirmed by the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg. Even so, it cannot force our bodies against the service provider in a particular case of banks to initiate proceedings and then to give them penalties that they are if I am not wronged from 80 to 200 thousand kuna. That's what this amendment is all about. Because be careful if the fine of 80 to 200 thousand kuna is not dissuasive, if it is not the penalty of 80 to 200 thousand kunas that will prevent banks, and on a case-by-case basis, to change their unfair business practices, so what is the penalty of 2 to 5 thousand kunas provided for by this law for that service provider who does not publish on his website how consumer disputes can be solved. So it is before us when we talk about the issue of fighting for the position and protection of consumers a long way, this is one step, this is a step that needs to be supported but we also need to be fully aware that this step will not bring some spectacular results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23656	Thank you, Agent Grbino. HNS's club, HSU, applied for participation in the debate, on behalf of their representative, Bozica Makar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23657	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable Deputy Prime Minister with fellow Members, distinguished colleagues. Here I am not going to repeat what Vice President Dalic presented to us, and I am not going to repeat what my colleague Jelkovac is, because she really did it well. Many segments have been addressed by a colleague of the coat of arms, so I will briefly think about where we all appear as consumers. We want to say the consumer is always right and that's how it should be. But when the consumer seeks his rights, then it seems quite different. In particular, there was a big problem with online sales, and it's a good thing that we've gone and solved that work, so now we won't have to write to who, we don't know which address, we don't know what we have to contribute to. I am pleased that this law is going to resolve that direction, or try to resolve everything first of all by agreement. I know that there have been attempts through the courts of honor that have worked within the Croatian Chamber of crafts, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, but it was all a set of beautiful desires and beautiful conversations, but the results were ultimately not effective. It's true that there are things in this law that are unsaid. And I hope that the Proposer will also consider the amendments that the Grbina will make, I believe, also accept the amendments of the Committee on Economy because they are actually technical in nature and that this law will be a little bit better for us. That he will be perfect will not be, but the intention of alternative consumer dispute resolution is certainly welcome. And that's why we, on behalf of the HNS and HSU, will support this law. I'm not going to explain, I'm saying everything that my colleagues have already said, what my colleague used to say and what the law says. It's a good intention, but I pray that at least some of these amendments are still considered and included in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23658	Thank you. Since there's no replica with this I'm concluding the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. The next item is the Final Proposal for an Alternative Consumer Dispute Resolution Act, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 45. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee and by the representative of Peja Grbin. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Natasha Mikush Zigman, secretary of state at the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts. Here you go. Amendment 1
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23660	Honored MPs and MPs. Amendment No 1 of the Legislative Committee shall be adopted on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23661	Thus, the first amendment becomes an integral part of the final draft law. Amendment No 2 also comes from the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23662	Amendment No 2 of the Legislative Committee shall be fully adopted
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23663	This also makes the second amendment an integral part of the final draft law. Amendment No 3 also comes from the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23664	Amendment number 3 is also accepted by the Government's promoter, or accepts all amendments to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23665	This includes the 3rd and 4th amendments to be adopted and included in the final draft of the law. Amendment number 5 was submitted by a representative of the Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23666	The amendment referred to in Article 10(2) shall not be accepted for the following reason, so the amendment has been related to the arrangement of the competences referred to in paragraph 1 of that Article or is considered a legitimate reason also referred to in paragraph 1 of that Article. The reason why we cannot accept the same is because the concept of competence is already defined by the regulations governing the Croatian classification framework and includes knowledge and skills and related independence and responsibility. The specific competences of the persons carrying out the procedure in the alternative consumer dispute resolution body must already be laid down, and specific regulations governing the work and conditions of the conduct of the work within those bodies, and competences are diverse and difficult to detect since there are different bodies in Croatia for alternative consumer dispute resolution that re-apply different procedural rules, so honor courts, peace centres, the insurance attorney. As regards the proposal concerning the definition of justified reasons, the concept is a legitimate reason which is interpreted from case to case, such as the notion of a reasonable period of time. In addition, the procedural rules of the body which I have previously mentioned therefore already contain provisions which prescribe what is considered to be a legitimate reason for the resolution of persons carrying out the procedure with the body for alternative consumer dispute resolution.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23667	Representative Peja Grbin, Proposer of the Amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23668	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. So these amendments have no political character. Everyone has a very technical character because your bill does not respect the directive. I expected you to say in your explanation that my amendments go contrary to the directive and in that case I would say, OK, everyone can have their interpretation of what it says in the directive. But to help yourself to these lies, I can't believe it. And do you know why? Because competences have not already been determined but are left by law to the body for the resolution of alternative consumer disputes only to determine them. So I am now interested in why the disputed competences are when I ask that you, the Ministry, the body of the Republic of Croatia, and they are not disputed when they are left by you by the bill and by the justified reasons referred to in paragraph 1 to Article 10(3). However, I see that a day in which you are not prepared to accept absolutely nothing coming from the opposition is a day you are not prepared to accept such technical amendments, which, for example, are going to be ordered by bodies that will carry out alternative, i.e. to settle alternative consumer disputes, to organise education instead of being able to do so, or are not willing to intervene or intervene in breaking provisions, and you want to remain a criminal penalty of only 5,000 kuna for Konzum. Look out! 5,000 kuna, if it does not inform consumers that disputes can be resolved, since there is no hearing on your part, I am withdrawing not this one but all the amendments I have proposed because that makes no sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23669	Thank you. Representative Peja Grbin withdrew the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th amendment he submitted. I am voting on the final proposal for a law on alternative consumer dispute resolution. Please engage, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most votes, 102 for, 3 abstentions and 2 against the law on alternative consumer dispute resolution is passed. The next item is: - Final proposal of the Act on the Completion of the Law on the Encouragement of Small Economy Development, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.62. The proposed act shall be submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to the boxes. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this and the legislative proposal according to the urgent procedure in accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate of Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Martina Dalic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23671	Thank you very much. So the amendments and additions to the laws that lie ahead of you introduces the obligation to carry out the test of small and medium-sized enterprises as part of the work of the procedure for the preparation and adoption of regulations concerning entrepreneurship. In essence, these provisions stipulate that during the preparation of legal and sublegislative acts it is necessary to assess the impact of these regulations on the costs it causes for small and medium-sized enterprises. The assessment of the effects of the regulations shall include the procedure for making rules on the basis of evidence and the relevant data collected which will serve as guidelines for selecting the best solution when making the rules. For the purposes of an ex ante impact assessment of the rules on small and medium-sized enterprises, the proposal sets out the form of the previous text of small and medium-sized enterprises and the test statement form. While in the process of passing legal acts, the Ministry of Economy will determine the shape and content of the form which will form an integral part of the tests of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. The purpose of these provisions is to ensure the environment and ensure the course of adoption of legal and sublegal acts which will take into account and take into account the costs incurred by the legislative framework to small and medium-sized enterprises. According to current burden statistics, the cost burden of small and medium-sized enterprises with the regulatory framework is 2.3 compared to the EU average of 3.2, which means a higher amount of this index. It turns out that today, on average, Croatia imposes higher costs on its laws than in the EU. Therefore, the adoption of this regulation also creates a legislative basis for achieving one of the important objectives of the Government, which concerns improving the business environment for entrepreneurship as a whole and, in particular, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, i.e. strengthening the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23672	I would like to thank the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, representative Darko Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23673	Dear ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members of Parliament and the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, respected Croatian Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy, is one addition ahead of us. It is therefore the European Commission's request that the Republic of Croatia respect the so-called Extents of conditions and this is one of the conditions so that we can continue to withdraw funds from EU structural funds in one continuity. About the so-called The ICJ test or we would say once before the adoption of legal and sublegal acts or the takeover of something in Croatian legislation we finally get one regulatory mechanism where the ministry responsible for small and medium-sized enterprises and crafts in this case will receive a mechanism through which the implementation of the test will take place before the law or the sublegal act takes effect to give certain qualifications and assess the impact of this law on the Croatian economy. This test will at one point, or predestination, be able to have somehow two directions. In that first step or so on. the predestination if a particular methodology is established that the law in question has a minor impact it is missing further and the law will be passed without any need for more rigorous testing. However, if this predestination establishes that the law in question has a significant impact on the Croatian economy then it will be approached by a specific methodology of a different rigorous and far more systematic approach in assessing the impact of the regulation on the Croatian economy. We're all, then we'll do it, or the law predicts that then it'll be called a statement with which... and I hope that very soon, therefore, the urgent procedure after the adoption of this law is within 60 days, and a regulation which will far, far more detail what this SME test is, in fact, the way in which the coordination is carried out in the process of assessing the impact of the implementing rules. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This regulation will also define the criteria for the implementation of SMEs test forms of previous SME test and statement form, and I hope that after 60 days, we will get one verification of whether the new legislative legislation for them creates additional problems and creates additional fences for Croatian craftsmen as well. What this test carries with it, therefore not only in terms of the verification of the new legislative regulation but also of all parafiscal burdens that we could possibly say through the ear of the needle, we could create as new ideas for the Croatian entrepreneur. Therefore, this part will also have its contents in the ICJ and will, through a statement, confirm whether the law or sublaw in question carries any new legislative burden on Croatian entrepreneurs or creates any new or additional parafiscal impose. So this is an addition essentially to the law, i.e. the development of a legislative framework that promotes the law of a small economy in the Republic of Croatia. Nothing changes right now. An assessment of the impact of the new legislation on the business of Croatian craftsmen and entrepreneurs is added. And as such, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the initiative and will vote in favour of passing this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23674	I'd like to thank Agent Horvath. The SDP representative club also applied for participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23675	President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, dear ministers. The proposal for a law supplementing the Small Economy Development Act is looking at the SDP club, so it will support it. He believes it is positive because SMI or small and medium entrepreneurship in Croatia makes 2/3 of the total number of employees and almost 60% of the value added, which is also recognised, I think in 2012, 2013 when it started and prepared the National Strategy for Small and Medium Entrepreneurship Development and there is a stress test or just testing, I say the effects of regulations and other regulations indicated as something which, in fact, the Ministry of Economy should continuously work on. So in the past 2 or 3 years as I recall, the Ministry of Economy has already had certain effects of sectoral regulations through an EU programme. I think it was only a store. So testing the effects of regulations not only say, the very rules that are passed on to small and medium-sized entrepreneurship but also potential or other uses represent definitely the depletion of the entire environment and the creation of a positive entrepreneurial climate. So as this is good, so there's an impact assessment of the rules, so I'm just going to make sure that what wasn't good, and that's that, let's say, the impact assessment of the rules is suspended in the adoption of tax laws. And in tax laws, in fact, one part of the stress test was not conducted. In conclusion, I don't really have much longer. The SDP advocates' club will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23676	Thank you, Agent Hajdash Doncic. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, HSU for Participation in the debate, Representative Bozica Makar reported.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23677	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable Deputy Prime Minister with fellow Members, distinguished colleagues. Since my two colleagues were extremely short, I won't be long either, so it doesn't turn out that I'm unhappy or that our club won't support this, because everything that goes in the direction of improvement will certainly support, and so will testing the impact of the regulations or the introduction of this test. All those who come from the economy, especially from a small economy, know that small changes often refer to them as large, very large, and that in the financial part, given that they are less powerful than those who are large, sometimes it can be devastating for them. And many laws were passed without before discussing their effects. So that's how we had the situation when the economy ministry's tenders were called, which couldn't be contacted by craftsmen who were too big for that part to report to small and medium enterprises, and they're not for a simple reason, and that's the organisational form because it said they should just call companies. I believe that in these very situations, these types of regulations will be avoided because they will see how they influence. And that's why I'm saying we're gonna support this because we think this law is good. It's not great because everything can be even better, but this step is good, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23678	I thank the MPs, Macar. Does the final word want to be taken by the minister? That concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. The next item is: - Final Proposal for a Law supplementing the Small Economy Development Act, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 62. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be informed of the amendment submitted. Natasha Mikush Zigman, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23680	The Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts the amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23681	This amendment thus becomes an integral part of the final proposal for a law. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on the Encouragement of Small Economy Development. Please engage, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the vote 103 is for, 3 abstentions and one against the Law on the Completion of the Law on the Encouragement of Small Economy Development.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23682	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23683	We will now continue with the next item of the agenda, which is: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments to the Law on the Food Activity, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.46. The proposed act shall be based on Article 85 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to you in boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Tourism. You received their reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Tourism Honored Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23684	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament's MPs and parliamentary representatives before you is a draft draft of the Law on Amendments to the Household Activity Act. The proposed law extends the period of validity of temporary solutions issued to carry out catering activities and the provision of catering services in households and on the family holding in facilities for which the process of legalisation of illegally built buildings is conducted or in facilities for which the actual situation does not comply with the state of the land books. According to the current Act on Hosting Activity, such temporary solutions may be valid for a maximum period of 31 December of this year, i.e. 2016. The extension of the time limit will allow for the continuation of the catering activity, or the provision of catering services, based on already issued provisional solutions, as well as the submission of new requirements for the issue of provisional solutions. The deadline of 31 December 2020 proposed to extend the duration of the provisional solutions is estimated to be appropriate. Public consultation on the ministry's website was also carried out on the draft bill. The proposed legal solution will have positive effects on the tourist offer and the preparation of the 2017 tourist season. The accommodation capacity required will be maintained and the service provider will be prevented from returning to the gray zone. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23685	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. And on behalf of the Club of Representatives, the Labour and Solidarity Party and the Reformist will first take the word of the esteemed Rechimer Varda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23686	Mr Vice-President, I think it is important to highlight what you wrote in the explanation, in fact legalise the work of catering activities related to the tourist season from 31 December 2016 to 31 December 2020. Unfortunately, I must only conclude that in 2020 we will have to extend these deadlines because this procedure of legalising illegally built buildings and editing in land books is slow. However, there should be increased activity, certainly this is not just a matter of your ministry, but I think that because of the public and the caterers who were the subject of this House in particular when discussing a set of tax laws, it is important and because of them to point out that this law, amendments and additions to the law actually enables legal continuation of catering activities, provision of catering services in the household, family farms, in the facilities for which the legal process is conducted. I think it's important to emphasise, therefore, that the process of legalising illegally built buildings and resolving property-legal relations related to enrolment in land books is being conducted. This will also make it impossible to carry out illegal catering activities and remove possible disturbances in tourism. The party's party of work and solidarity club, Reformist and Independent Representatives will support this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23687	The next one will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the esteemed Anton Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23688	Honored Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law amending the Household Activity Act with the final draft law in an emergency procedure. These amendments to the law regulate the way and conditions for legal and natural persons to carry out catering activities after the expiry of the existing provisional solutions, which expires on 31.12.2016. These temporary solutions relate to buildings covered by the Construction Act and whose legal provisions regulated the legalisation process. In this category of objects, it is therefore very important to highlight 7100 objects that have received a temporary solution. Therefore, 5600 solutions issued on the basis of the application for the initiation of an illegal building law process, and about 1500 solutions issued for objects for which the actual situation on the ground does not comply with the state of the land books. Out of the total number of provisional solutions issued, only six-six percent or only eight and a half percent were issued. We must stress this, therefore, that the problem is quite large and that it was necessary to ask for this extension because it is certain that by 31 December 2016 91% will not be resolved, therefore in these 15, 20 days. So we had to do this, and I think this is a good procedure for the tourism ministry, but it certainly opens up some additional issues of speed, the quality of solving these situations on the ground both in state institutions and in local institutions, so local self-government. So as I said a solution for the remaining 91% of the objects reported in the procedure cannot be solved and we definitely need to make this possible by this law. And first of all, to enable the legal work of service providers, so step back, move away service providers from so-called. the grey service zones, and give an appropriate deadline for both the owners of the facilities and the authorities of the state, regional and local administration, so that they can complete the procedures for issuing a solution to the performance, i.e. enrolment in the cadaster and land books. Given the already mentioned large number of cases which have not been resolved, the ministry has proposed a period of validity of provisional solutions by 31 December 2020. We consider it appropriate and long enough to administratively address all previous issues arising from the Law on Construction and the Law on Food Activity, and to issue permanent solutions on the implementation of the catering activity after the end of these procedures. It is important to note that these objects are owned by most natural persons or crafts. The facilities that have temporary solutions are within the framework of the buildings for which an application for the launch of the law of illegally built buildings is submitted, and the facilities which were previously adopted and located in the household and family holding, and for catering service providers at the household and on the holding, if the request is accompanied by an executive building permit or an executive decision on the execution of the condition. It is evident from this that the intensity of the applicant to prevent the adoption of this Act from carrying out illegal catering activities, i.e. providing catering services or the loss of the necessary accommodation capacity especially in the tourist season, thereby preventing unfair competition, tax ejaculation and any accompanying anomalies in the economy that makes work illegal. It is important to say that in particular in the field of family accommodation, the motive of the catering activity is not only a commitment to tourism and the provision of accommodation services, but also part of the social category where family budgets are complemented by the means to carry out the same activity. So there is also an important social sensitivity in this bill itself. Speaking of family accommodation, he himself is offering about 50% of the total beds in Croatia's tourist offer of approximately 78,000 registered service providers, so 10% of that number works with temporary solutions. We must point out that 50% of the beds in the family accommodation generates only 15 to 17% of the total tourist income of the Republic of Croatia, and that it is therefore necessary to better position this tourist product on our eminent markets and from the number of beds offered to achieve a much larger share in the total tourism income of the Republic of Croatia. For comparison of 13% of hotel accommodation generates about 50% of the total tourist income of the Republic of Croatia. In order to raise the quality and competitiveness of family accommodation from the tourist segment, the process of recategorising the offer of family accommodation so, rooms, apartments and holiday houses has been launched in the past 7.8 months. Since the very beginning of the issue of a service solution in the Republic of Croatia, no retegorisation of the facilities has ever been performed. It is therefore necessary to do so in order to confirm the issued category of facilities or, in the case of no investment during the period of added resolution, to date, it has reduced or, in the case of a better situation than the issue of a solution, it has increased. The Ministry's idea that there is no reduction in the category but with categorized facilities rising in quality so that they can compete better on a very demanding tourist market. To this end, talks were launched with HBOR on the opening of favourable credit lines, 4% interest, payment at eight years until the amount of 200,000 kuna, with very simple insurance instruments, so there is no registration of mortgages and similar complicated procedures or what we like to say paperwork for obtaining credit. The deadline for the adjustment of the service provider to retain the existing category would be three years and within that time limit the HBOR funds could be used for the reconstruction of the facilities. According to the ministry's estimates, there are approximately 30 thousand on the market. And where we were in the ministry while I was doing my duty as Minister of Tourism had the most complaints are just private accommodations because you need to know that today most of the accommodation is reserved through an online platform and we experience all sorts of things. So one is what is shown on portals or platforms, and when a tourist comes to the scene often finds himself with what he finds on the ground, or that he has booked an object that is not in line with what he has booked on the platform, and it has made us think about how to position this great opportunity with private accommodation better on the market and avoid absolute discomfort for tourists because we offer Croatia as an excellent destination, and in any case we should strive to do so, and one of the contributions is that private accommodation is also moving towards excellence, as the entire hotel industry has started. We have to say that in these talks we went one step further, so we talked to HGK that the same thing was included in the process in the sense that it would intervene in a way that conditioned construction and equipment of the facilities with the largest share of Croatian producers, which would certainly generate benefit in our manufacturing companies had a beneficial effect on Croatia's GDP. Here is an approximation of 30 thousand objects to be taken on average for the reconstruction of the facility 100 thousand kuna, which is approximately three billion kuna and 400 million euros respectively. So one big stopper in the construction sector would certainly be launched or in the trade itself, but it should also be said that the ultimate goal of such an initiative would be to raise the competitiveness and quality of Croatian family accommodation. So to conclude, we are aware of the very important importance of family accommodation and all tourist and catering services in the tourist offer of the Republic of Croatia. It is therefore very important for us to regulate the status of catering service providers who have not yet come up with permanent solutions on the provision of services to do so by 31 December 2020. It is important to note that it will not be further administratively complicated at the end of 31 December 2016 and ask the service provider to submit new requests for new solutions but will extend the old temporary solutions to a new deadline, and in that time it would also allow the issue of new temporary solutions for new service providers in the legalisation process. The HDZ representative club supports this law and proposes its adoption in the proposed form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23689	Thank you very much. The next one will speak on behalf of the HNS-HSU Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23690	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State, Madam Assistant, I welcome you to this very high house. I must immediately say that the HNS-HSU club supports the intensities of the legislator, but that we have a major problem with the proposed solution. The SDP, HNS, IDS and HSU administration, when the first exemption was adopted, set one deadline to mark compliance with the general deadlines for the implementation of the legalisation process. It is now clear that neither the competent offices nor the competent administrative departments for municipal activities are able to do their job within the time limit. However, giving a new concession for four years is not a privilege to hosts in the legalisation process, but it is the law of the public service that happens in the offices responsible for legalisation and the administrative departments for municipal activities. The current situation when it comes to the number of procedures to be conducted and the number of requests submitted is such that out of the total of 800,000 requests here are about 7 thousand 100. If there is real political will and real control of the Government of the Republic of Croatia over those mechanisms that are obliged to implement the Law on Legalisation, this problem can be resolved within the next few months, certainly not until 31.12.2016. we welcome intensification of the proposings, but giving a period of four years means recognising the inability of our own administration. We therefore give not only the possibility to hosts who work in facilities that need legalisation, but first of all we send a very bad message to all who work in the legalisation process in large cities, these are their own administrative departments or legalisation centres in smaller towns, and municipalities are county offices, that is the agency that directly corresponds to the ministry, we send them a message you don't need to work properly for the next four years. Well, the whole legalisation process would have to end by the end of 2018, let alone this as far as possible, I say if there is political will and if we control our administration in the next few months. In this respect, the HNS-HSU club has just submitted an amendment requesting that this deadline be reduced from 2020 to 2018. The pressure of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the competent ministries on competent administrative departments and legalisation centres would really make a concrete move forward and help people who are now in limbo, who have temporary solutions but still not lasting. But let's get to work. What's the Department of Construction doing? What are the inspection services doing? What's the agency doing? How is it possible that in my town, let's say the people who took the loan to pay the legalization fine, Colloquisically, a year and a half ago are holding their funds in a bank account? The legalisation centre has done everything it takes, and they have been waiting for more than a year for the competent management of the utility department, so I'm talking about the town of Velika Gorica, to issue a solution so they can pay the fine. So, the city itself doesn't want to earn the funds that belong to it, and people have the funds in the bank account, of course without interest, and they're already paying the loans. So it's a practice that we can't legalize but dodits. We need to push from the top of the government, from the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Construction, precisely in this direction that people are doing their job. A large number of new officials have been accepted in the management departments responsible for legalisation. In the county offices. They have to do their job within reasonable time. The legalization process can't last six years, and we're actually sending this proposal a message that we don't care about the dynamics themselves that much. In other words, it does not matter what part of the funds will come into the state budget, which part of the funds will come into local budgets. Well, of course it matters to us, and it has to be important to us. That's why we're rocking them to do our job. Four years to give for several hundred cases, because let's not forget: 60 percent of the work is already done more or less. The rest of them are mostly controversial, we're talking about in general, we're not just talking about the facilities in which the catering activity is being carried out, the rest is mostly controversial. So do we really think that all 800,000 demands will be settled positively? Of course not. Some have arrived outside the deadline, some have submitted requests for interventions in the area that occurred after a legally defined deadline when possible. There are all kinds of cases. But let us not legalise lawlessness when we have already agreed to legalise the situation in the area with a certain date in order to finally draw a line over something that has lasted decades in the Republic of Croatia. And that's total chaos and chaos in space. We will do the caterers a great service if we force the state administration to do its job by 2018, not to wait another two years more than that, until 2020. Therefore, I repeat, the Club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retirement has handed over the amendment and we ask simply to include common sense, and the Ministry of Tourism, and the Ministry of Civil Engineering, it is in the interest that this deadline be as short as possible, but it is equally in the interest of everyone to control the procedures that take place on the ground, not to give them room to do what they want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23691	Thank you very much. We have several replicas on your exhibit. The first is the esteemed Cynthia Hajdash Doncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23692	Thank you. Mr. Goran, so you've detected some things that concern me, I'll say some righteousness. But, in general, I agree with certain of your postulates, uh, settings, but I'll give you one question. So it's very simple that this law is trying to say I'm going to make it easier for a part of the caterer who won't either because of unsettled land books or because of something else to succeed by 2016. I ask you a question, wouldn't it have been if the Government of the Republic of Croatia had helped them in another way, if she had returned the VAT rate from 25 per cent to 13 per cent, that it had abolished perhaps chamber contributions. It would be a real relief to the guests in Croatia. Especially considering those hundreds of new family farms that produce wine, 30 new Croatian brewers who planned to set out through a business plan of exit on the Croatian market. Because it's all localized production, and wine and beer. I think that would be much better than touching this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23693	The Honorable Representative Beus Richembergh will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23694	Comrade Doncic, thank you for this question. It is clear that the logic that goes after the condition of a horse pulling a car is not yet a good burden. I am not happy with tourism and hospitality in total GDP participating with 16, 18 or 19%. It's just bad news for us. This means that our industry is generally very bad. Tourism is the dominant branch of the economy only in poor countries. But as long as we don't strengthen other industrial sectors and sectors of other services, claw tourism and hospitality, punishing it with additional charges or less favourable conditions is not smart. We can say whatever we want, but I'm asking a question about your question about how we're going to calculate VAT on New Year's Eve. The law shall enter into force in the first minute of 1 January 2017. What are people going to do at the reception, whether they'll all be closed that hour at midnight until the cash registers are adjusted to new elements of the reckoning? Is that what we've been thinking about? Have we thought about it or will we put a situation like that on everyone's nose under the new law, send them inspections and harass them and make people who come to New Year's Eve have nothing to drink or drink? Are we going to close places that won't respect it in the first minutes of 2017 and tell people to go home, wait for New Year's Eve home? In this sense, this is not about December 31st, 2016, we suggest that this be so December 31st, 2016, we suggest that this be so on December 31st, 2018. So a sufficiently comfortable period of 2 years but not for God either because it's no help to the caterers, it's just an extension of their agony, it's helping an inefficient state administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23695	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23696	Thank you very much, Vice President. My dear colleague, you've said that by setting a deadline we don't need to send a message to the service, so I don't think I'd agree with you. Therefore, in the legalisation process, there are prescribed deadlines in which the procedures should be completed and they shall be counted from the time when the officer who conducts the procedure receives complete documentation for legalisation. And also related to what you said was received by a huge number of legalization officers in cities and counties who need to deal with it. I cannot fully agree with you because we really have a unit of local and regional self-government that has not received such a large number of new employees who work exclusively on legalization operations because they have not been able to do so because the local and regional self-government units have not been able to receive more than a whole number of new employees who will work exclusively on these jobs for objective reasons because they did not have the means or were able to provide, above all, the funds for the salaries of these newly employed people because we know that there are limits in the percentage of the total amount in the budget allocated for wages in local units, local and regional units of self-government, and many have not been able to employ new employees to resolve solely the subject of legalisation. What I would say in the end, this deadline is defined in my opinion as the deadline until which it means we should solve all cases, which does not mean that in the earlier period we cannot solve those where conditions exist. But precisely because we have different situations in individual units of local and regional self-government, so they don't all have the same conditions for solving legalization cases, I think it's good to set a time limit for all objects to be resolved within that deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23697	Thank you. The honourable representative Goran Beus-Richembergh will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23698	Dear colleagues, the job of legalization is one of the few profitable jobs done by the administration. So the story of the fact that they didn't have the funds is a hollow story to you because those funds are due from fees, legalization is quite enough to finance all the workforce that's been hired. As much as you know that incomes from that title are shared between the state and the one who works on that job. It sends a very ugly message to people that what they were supposed to do by the end of 2016 can still be kept in drawers by 2020. An objective observation that some simply cannot stand. You know why? Because those who can't take them take objects and go to the state agency. So whoever can't is no problem, who can't or won't. In some situations you have no one to hire because it is simply such a situation in the market of various strengths that you do not have qualified people to do this to you. But in such cases, there is an agency, it takes thousands and thousands of cases and processes them directly under the auspices of the ministry itself through the agency. So there's no reason to give these comfortable deadlines because that's what's going to happen, that's exactly what's going to happen. So you need to know that the nature of every administration to work as little as possible is simply its nature. And now if you say more, so you know what you had to finish by the new year, you don't have four more years. If only We had sent them such a message every day, they would have done nothing. And you know very well. When you give your associate a certain deadline and you say please finish it within 30 days, you can extend that deadline for a few more days when you see that objectively does not arrive because there are hundreds of other jobs to do, you will not kill him for it, but you will certainly not tell him and get back to 2020 well, until then here's your deadline. So it's not a qualification from good governance, it's just from bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23699	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative Anton Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23700	So this problem has several levels, you're as aware here as I am, so it's a final solution, so a permanent solution that the host gets when he meets all these conditions. This is just one segment you said well, I'm in part with you. Parts of local and state administrations and local self-government need to be pressed harder to work more efficiently, faster and better. So in all segments, not just in this segment. This is now an eclectic example of when a little, when the deadlines are going to extend a little bit. But you have the other part of the problem, and that's your entry into the land books. Because you only get into land books when you solve this previous issue and you get a situation to get a permanent solution, you understand. So that part of the other is absolutely connected to the Ministry of Justice or to the courts that we know for a fact that the problem with these books is. And I would say I would pressure certain courts in the Republic of Croatia as well as pressures on certain offices of state administration or offices in the county or in the cities. Why? Because most of these facilities are located on the Adriatic. We're aware of that. So that's where he'll suffer most, I don't know, from Istria to Dubrovnik to this county. And I'm not sure, I don't know, I can't say, and I'm not sure that it's going to be a good deal of quality in those two years absolutely these items that, here's 7 grand and so many objects aren't small, and maybe you can ask for some kind of help from these offices to do this whole procedure more quickly and quality. But I think in these four years it seems a lot, but since two processes are happening, so this is the first process of issuing solutions to offices in the local or state, and then another part, and then it's a question of enrolling in the cadastre and land books when we finally get a document based on which to enter a permanent solution or issue a permanent solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23701	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Goran Beus Richembergh will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23702	Comrade Kleman, I respect your insight into the situation very much, but as I do, you know very well that we will do a service to the caterers only if we speed this up. If there's a problem in courts, then there can't be this kind of statement in the law. So, if the problem is whether the garter is going to execute the books, then let's refer to the final solution and not to the entry into the books, and we've solved the matter. In fact, this is how we abolize all those who don't work or who are just hot and have a big problem working from 1.5 till 1.11. you know I have colleagues who tell me 1.7. There are those in the courts, too. But as such, if we are not able through the Justice Department to resolve this situation in the judiciary then let us refer the law to a final solution rather than to enrolment in land books. So let's control what we can directly control through executive power and that's it then. And that's how we make services do their jobs. Why is this in the interest of the caterer? So you know very well that a property that is not therefore solved in this way cannot in any variant be collateral. People need money to advance their business, so they can invest in improving the quality of their service. So in all possible ways speeding up this process would benefit them. Let's put it to the end of 2018 and thus put pressure on the garters to do their part of the work as soon as possible because these will finish their work by the end of 2018 and then they stay on the ledge and see them who is not doing their job. In this sense, we will speed them up too so that when they are enrolled in land books they can then serve all these properties as collateral, so as a basis for creating added value. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23703	Thank you very much. And now we're going to an individual debate, the esteemed Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23704	Thank you, Vice President. So this law today may seem useful and necessary, but it is already ending next year it may be completely unnecessary. Because the number of hosts will drop drastically, they will close their activities in legal or illegal or still illegal facilities because you raised their VAT by 13%. So this is about small caterers, renters, caterers in their private facilities that expanded the terrace or built a piece of basement or dining room for tourists slightly increased and did not legalize it. With 13% higher VAT, the question is how many will survive. They will put most of them in the lock and you will not have a problem at the end of 2017 with this number of these hosts. We can expect their number to drop drastically. So with your popular, famous tax reform, you've set out to destroy one of the activities that contributes most to wealth and in the budget of the Republic of Croatia. It was a completely unreasonable move, the consequences of your decision will be seen only after a year or two but this specific law to return to it may already be unnecessary in 2017. Now, how do you solve the problem? You agree, I completely agree with what counterpart Richembergh said, this is the problem of the administration from another, from a completely different area in the area of construction and spatial planning. And this bill had to come with at least one or two other proposals. If we go with this bill that you take yourself four years to legalize this property then send the same time and solution to the replacement of the Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning. Because you say with this legal proposal, forgive me, but our minister is so incompetent in this government that he won't be able to do it in four years. If the problem is, if the problem is in the courts then, with this law, suggest some other law that will solve the systemic problem. You say here is only 8.5% legalized, so now imagine one situation to get into such a problem that only 8.5% of primary school students manage to finish elementary school in eight years. You'd figure it out by extending your primary school deadline to 21 years and making it 21 or 24 years. Because you wouldn't be interested at all, but why is it that only 8.5% of the students fail to finish in eight years? Because if you were interested in this case, then you'd figure out where the problem is, so you'd go solve the problem. And not before the problem to close your eyes, the problem under the carpet and here to extend the deadline indefinitely. And besides, why just for four years? Well, you could have put that really ad infinitum until it got rid of it, so it took 100 years, 100 years. That is, so this extension to 4 years is absolutely pointless, it says more about what the government thinks of itself, so I'm the secretary of state, so I think I'm in such a government, so I'd warn the prime minister, so don't embarrass ourselves. Well, let's just go ahead and let's just say they won't notice, so let's just extend it every year for a year. Well, don't let them have a month right now, we're two in power, so let's tell them right now and admit by the first proposal or the 10th bill that we're completely incompetent and we don't think of becoming more capable in four years. I'm surprised the secretary of state, so you were here in the House if you hadn't warned them that there was a danger, that it would be noticed. And the last thing I'm saying is the deadline for the vaccination. The second day after the publication in the National Journal. Why? Well, it's a regular eight-day deadline. What makes you think it's not the day after 31.12. Why change the usual period of vaccination? There must be special reasons, express the reason, special must be that the period of vaccination is shortened. You're cutting it short here, so that government shows that it's also nomotechnical, legally illiterate. That means this law is as much as it seems necessary now, but I think we'll vote for it, we'll vote in the interest of those people you tried to destroy continue. We'll vote to help them. But what you have to say has to be told. Listen to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23705	Thank you very much. The first replica is the esteemed Anton Kleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23706	Dear fellow Stazic, therefore to refer to the students, so in percentage and this problem to put into the same plane really sounds effective but there are quite different problems, so about what we just said and colleague Beus Richembergh and this debate which was also the club's report. It's a completely different problem. You're aware of that, and we can't put it in the same level, efficiency to hear it, but they're quite different problems. So what I have to say is that here you refer to the catering activity whether or not you want to make a point in this part, and the point is that the catering activity is not only the provision of catering services in terms of, therefore, catering services for which the tax in this tax reform has come to 25%. These are catering services for food and drink, so food and drink services. Here we have over 98% dominant, meaning family accommodation services that remain taxed with 13% as so far as I think we should welcome, and these 25% hope that in some subsequent period there will be a correction of that tax to one level as well as in our environment for which I stood as Minister. But here, such circumstances in tax reform were that it was simply brought about. So, you have to say exactly what this is about, here is the dominant family accommodation that stays in that category of taxation with 13%.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23707	Thank you. They will answer the esteemed Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23708	I'm actually glad to hear it in this replica of yours. First of all, if you hadn't just started to destroy everything, so you spared these tenants, that's good news. But your attack on those who deal with food and drink still remains. That's bad news. But another good news of yours is that you still think about reducing that VAT by 12%. That's a good announcement. All I care about is when?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23709	The next replica is the esteemed Gordan Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23710	Comrade Stazic, you spoke among other things about how the caterers, i.e. the people who deal with tourism on one side, yes, and then take it. There's more. It's like you told someone here we're gonna untie your legs so you can run, but we're gonna tie your eyes so you won't be able to see where you're running. So that's pretty much because if on the one hand you're loosening up, and on the other hand the next day you're tightening your business conditions, so I don't know now you're introducing fiscalization to everyone no matter what they used to be on the cobweb, which they've been doing effectively individually, occasionally. Now all of a sudden, everyone has to go into the fiscalization system. And I don't really know how you're gonna feel when you sit in the cabs you've just imposed on the fiscalization. Would you like to take an Uber ride? I guess you will, you'll have to. But in any case, it is not a good policy that forgets that an extremely important document is in force, the fruit of Croatian mind made for two and a half years, and that is the Strategy for the Development of Tourism. That's where it's drawn. It is the best analysis of the state of Croatian tourism in historical hospitality, and we have been dealing with it for a hundred and several years. So, we gave up some of the very smart and powerful suggestions that are in this strategy, as if we didn't care what it says in there about what to do in order to give this food and tourism sector an even better and more sustainable benefit for Croatia's economy in the long term, generally taking. I'm not happy about that. Because something that's in effect is being derrogated without any consensus, without any political agreement. All MPs in the Croatian Parliament voted for the strategy. I prayed and insisted that this be the first strategy to be discussed at the plenary session, and thank God I was listened to because I wanted 151 MPs to have the right to say everything and make a statement about it. And that's over. Let's get back to it, it's worth the gold.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23711	Thank you. They will answer the esteemed Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23712	Here you are wondering how they'll dare sit in a cab. I wonder how he'll dare walk into a restaurant without fear of being spit in their soup.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23713	Thank you. The last replica is the esteemed Steve Cule. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23714	Dear Vice President, it's understandable to you, sir. I'm going to track your concern for the caterers. Don't let God ruin that brand, we don't know what many of us are going to do. It's not a problem for caterers or taxes, VAT or nothing. The host is the problem primarily of ZAMP, paying ZAMP protection of copyright that our former president Josipovic has imposed on us. It is not a problem for guests at sea and in centres of great survival who will always have guests and traffic and will be able to pay all those charges even many invented from the monumental rent, the height of the charge, there is all this. The problem, however, is in small caterers in rural areas that are already experiencing severe torture and can no longer pay their obligations due to the departure of the population. The problem is in these small ones that throughout the year, they have to pay their obligations in the same way and some will come to them not to generalise but to work six months a year and these six months is enough to survive not for one year but possibly two years. The practice of inspector's supervision which is often disproportionate to the punishments and actions committed, the selective selection of also the tour of the guest committees. Furthermore, it is also a big problem for workers to leave. It won't be in the hospitality or the workers who will work for those minimals anymore, it's easy in Slavonia or somewhere else. And I'm just as interested as a representative and as a citizen in just one thing, how we're going to calculate VAT, how we're going to account for the catering of catering facilities, and for those who charge their daily services for seven kunas, especially on Brijuni, who in this case will be severely damaged in their budget, so they're going to lose all the guests from Gavela and artists and all the others, you know what.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23715	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Nenad Stazic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23716	You say there won't be any workers. Well, they're already short, the caterers are complaining that they can't find quality chefs, and now they'll be able to find them even less because they'll be able to pay even less, since they'll have to pay a bigger VAT. Where does that lead? And the cooks won't be working for them for the bogeyman, and they won't be able to pay them enough, because the state takes more. The state is missing. You're talking about ZAMP as an unfair parafiscal effort, you tell me colleague Culej why you would play music or play music, I'd make money on your music as a caterer, and you wouldn't have anything to do with it. Because that would be fair to you? That in my system the coordinate system of justice doesn't go. If someone has done an authorial work, and someone else in his authorial work earns money, the earner must give a part to the author. He doesn't have to pay ZAMP any of the caterers just don't play other people's music, he can sing himself, he can entertain his guests and he won't have to pay anything or let the news run, he doesn't have to pay ZAMP anything either. But he can't play someone's author's work and make money on it, and that artist, that the author, he doesn't have any of it. If you don't understand it, it's quite clear to me because you know nothing about art or you've ever read about it, and you'll never know it's simply not your vocality, that's what you've said with your own remark.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23717	Thank you very much. Finally, the guest secretary of state Frano Matušić will say something. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23718	...thank you. I thank all those who participated in this debate. Just for a little while, I thank Mr. Kleman for mentioning the retegorization of the facilities, I think it's a very important project that can generate a real improvement in this segment, and in this sense it's really very important and an HBOR loan of 200 thousand kuna available to all those who want to report to this project. There were also two proposals, however very difficult by the two clubs, one was talking about the deadline cut, and the other said that it would probably need to extend this deadline, which it stated by 31 December 2020, we will consider these proposals and we will certainly have a clear position until the vote. Unfortunately, we do not have direct influence on those who implement the law, and in this sense we really should firstly appeal to the Ministry of Construction or to offices in the county and offices in cities that have the power to solve these cases as soon as possible. However, it is indeed a fact that out of the 7,100 objects that have requested legalisation in that status so far within all regular deadlines, only 600 have been resolved so far, so 6,5 thousand has not been resolved. Not even 10%, 7.8% are resolved that it says enough that this procedure obviously does not go as smoothly as we all assumed together, and in that sense we believe that this deadline was the right one that we have offered in this legal solution, but we will consider your proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23719	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Now we'll have a break of up to three hours, and then we'll only be doing one law this afternoon, and that's the final proposal of the Law on Amendments to the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities. Thank you. It's a 13,35 o'clock meeting.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23720	The following is: - Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law in the Food Activity, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 46. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the HNS, HSU Representatives' Club. I would like the representative of Proposer Fran Matosic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Tourism to be shown about the amendment submitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23721	Thank you, Mr. President. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. HNS and HSU representatives' club is not accepted. Recital: As stated in the explanation of the proposed law according to the current dynamics of the legal process of illegally built buildings or land books, the period of validity of provisional solutions until 31 December 2020 shall be assessed accordingly. The extension of the time limit until 31 December 2020 shall in no case affect the dynamics of resolving the abovementioned procedures.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23722	Whether the applicant's representative would like to take the floor on the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23723	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, if I didn't know what else I would have trusted you with, but by today's day of 826,948 legalization requests have been legally resolved 510,504 requests and 600,000 claims have been dealt with realistically. Of the 7,100 temporary solutions related to hospitality, let me tell you what it's all about. So when the Law on Legalisation was passed then it was said that all those involved in catering could receive temporary solutions by the end of this year, and within that time they would settle their legalisation requirements. From 7,100 such solutions, 8.5% has been solved so far. In other words, these demands are not resolved. Why don't you get rid of it? You should ask yourself what I mean. 600,000 legal requirements have been resolved. What has not been solved is not solved by those who are to be rejected or not solved where people are still praying for requests and complete demands. In other words, you extend the deadline to 2020 compared to one group of our citizens and so by 2020 those who refuse will have a deadline to refuse. This in other words means that legalisation where they are engaged in catering activities and where they are committed to facilities will last until 2020, and for all others it will be over in 2, 3 months. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23724	Thank you. I ask esteemed MPs and MPs to approach the vote. The vote is over. I find that the above-mentioned amendment has not acquired a sufficient majority. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Hosting Activity. Please engage, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes are 82 votes in favour, 17 abstentions and 7 against the adoption of the Law amending the laws on catering activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23725	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] The proposed act shall be based on Article 85 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to you in boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Tourism. You received their reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear State Secretary at the Ministry of Tourism Frano Matosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23726	... Parliamentarians. [[Specially enabled.]] Here is a proposal for a Law amending the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities. An important membership law in tourist communities regulates the obligation to pay membership fees, basics and rates at which the membership fee is charged and paid to the tourist community, the way the membership fee is paid, the registration, the billing and fees of membership fees and other questions for payment and allocation of membership fees to the tourist community. Amendments to the Law on Memberships and Tourist Communities before you are based on the Government of the Republic of Croatia Decision of 27 July 2016 proposing an additional reduction of membership fees paid to tourist communities by 5%, all in order to relieve the economy of payment of non-taxable fees. The estimated reduction in membership fees is around 10 million kuna, and the following is expected to allow changes to the law to create a better business environment and to reduce administrative burden and cost of payment and business. This is the third reduction of the membership rate or reduction of the membership rate. The first reduction was 20% in 2010, and the deleted part of the taxpayers, and the second reduction by 15% in 2015. A consultation with the interested public was conducted between 7 October and 11 November 2016. It is proposed, of course, to pass this law as proposed by an emergency procedure. In the first quarter of 2017, the Ministry of Tourism announced amendments to the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities and the Law on residence tax, and further steps will be considered to further reduce this parafiscal charge, e.g. the reduction of the circle of the obligor or further reduction of the rate. In addition, the possibility of compensating the reduced flow of funding from membership fees will also be considered, especially in relation to tourist communities on the continent other than the City of Zagreb Tourist Board or in undeveloped areas. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23727	Thank you very much. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate and the first to hear from the HDZ Club on behalf of which the esteemed Anton Kleman will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23728	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed the Law on Amendments to the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities with a final draft law in an emergency procedure. An important membership law in tourist communities sets out the obligations to pay membership fees on the basis of the rate at which the membership fee is calculated and paid to the tourist community. In 2016, somewhere in July, the Croatian Government made a national reform programme and in line with a decision on the list of non-taxable duties to be abolished or reduced in 2016-2017, it made a decision to further reduce membership fees to the tourist communities by 5%. According to FINA, the total income of the membership fee in 2015 amounted to €220 million. This results in a disbursement of the economy in 2017 for approximately 10 million kuna. We must note that this is not the first reduction of membership fee. In 2015, this reduction was 15 per cent of the base, and in 2010 it was the first reduction and was 20 per cent with the removal of part of the payment obligation of the membership fee itself. This reduction will certainly contribute to reducing the parafiscal burdens on the overall economy of the Republic of Croatia, but it should also be said that it will reduce revenues to tourist communities from the level of the state, so to the Croatian tourist community, county tourist communities, urban and municipal tourist communities. In 2016 we had the best tourist season since the draft independent Republic of Croatia. We expect total revenues of cca 8.5.9 billion euros. This opportunity should be thanked to all tourist and catering workers for the excellent season. I also consider tourist workers as public sector employees, as well as our roof tourist organisations of the Croatian Tourist Board. This year, 35 million kuna reduced the state's transfer to the Croatian tourist community. Through increased income from the tourist tax this year, given the increased number of overnight stays and the introduction of a new system of monitoring the registration of guests of the night e-visitor, the rationality of business will succeed in amortising the lack of state transfer. However, I believe that the way of financing and the activities of the Croatian Tourist Community and the entire system of tourist communities will also have to be changed because the current way of functioning of the system is archaic and difficultly sustainable from the aspect of what our competition is doing today. Therefore, I think that if there are further reductions in the flow of funds into the system and it is not defined by the tourist communities it will not be able to respond to the challenges posed by new trends in the tourism industry. On the one hand, the reduction based on less payment of the tourist membership is a joy and, on the other hand, leads to faster action in terms of the adoption of new legislative proposals that will define the role and task of the tourism community as branding agencies and the destination management agency in the public sector. We are aware that there must be a new catalogue of the payment obligations of the tourist membership fee, so to exclude from paying the tourist membership fee of those business entities that do not have direct benefits from tourism and thus free them from unnecessary burdens. It is also very important to more justly deploy tourist membership to areas where income is achieved. We have several large Croatian companies paying tourist membership only in the registered headquarters of the company and income achieved in the entire country. Eclative example is teleoperators who pay total tourist payments to the tourist community of the city of Zagreb. So we know for ourselves what kind of traffic is being made across the coast in summer months, especially through guests who use the same service, especially in past periods where the rooming was much bigger than it is today. It's about tens of millions of kuna a year. So they're not just teleopers, they're other companies. So I found the data from 2014, 2015, so I'll read you what's very interesting to know, so if I mentioned it to you before the teleoperator, I'll tell you that VIP total at RH level has paid 3 million and 117 thousand kuna in 2014. From 3 million and 117 thousand kuna 3 million and 102 thousand kuna he paid directly to the Tourist Board of Zagreb. TELE2 paid a million and 657 thousand 645 thousand kuna and paid the same amount to the Tourist Board of Zagreb. HT is the highest and HT has paid 6 million and 41 thousand and some kunas 6 million and 9 thousand kunas to the city of Zagreb. So the dominant is still being paid and the consum, the dominant still pays HRT, INA something fairer, etc., etc. So today, at the level of the city of Zagreb, you have about 80 million kunas of membership payments in the budget of the city of Zagreb, i.e. the Tourist Board of Zagreb, and these others get some tiny berries, purchases, and that is definitely not fair, this should be changed, so this should be defined on a fairer basis when doing a new Law on Tourist Communities and these accompanying laws on tourist memberships and on residence tax. I think that we will certainly be able to discuss the programmes much better, because if you receive such amounts by force, then you are simply not even motivated to work on other programs, which is to attract guests to the destination itself and increase from that basic income which should be a tourist tax. So you're not working hard enough to develop a tourist destination. We must admit, though, that the city of Zagreb is doing good programs, there we cannot deny their efforts and it is seen here in Zagreb alone these days. However, this is about incomes made elsewhere, and it is just wrongly done by the new laws themselves that fail to transfer to those areas where income and income themselves are realised. It should be pointed out that the adoption of this law is a partial solution that must certainly be welcomed but should also be warned as we have previously said about the need to adopt a new Law on Tourist Communities, the Law on Memberships, the Law on residence tax, which dates largely from the first half of the 1990s. We hope that as soon as possible the Ministry of Tourism will offer draft laws in our benches because it is really necessary for all of us to be competitive on the tourist market, our competitors are taking great steps further. For the very sake of these laws, we cannot follow them especially the Croatian Tourist Board that works on these laws from the 1990s, competition is going terribly quickly forward and we unfortunately have to comply with all these laws and cough after them. Our tourism growth could be much, much faster, much more efficient and less bureaucratic because we have really one forest of law that we must satisfy so that we can take one small step forward through the Croatian tourist community and competition is weak away from our close competitors and to the further ones. So, in that sense, what we said, the HDZ Club supports the adoption of the Bill's proposal, because it is essentially reformal and thus disbursing the Croatian economy from the charge. But here, in the longevity of what I have said should be done on all these accompanying laws that need to be urgently passed, we could urgently bring this horse of ours for riding, which is called Croatian tourism, to continue to be used as a good lever for the growth of the Croatian economy and more than what we have today as a mantra that about 20% of the Croatian economy depends on Croatian tourism. I am convinced that by changing this law that it will be even more because, unfortunately, in the next few years, we will not be able to concentrate on a stronger tourist, on a stronger economic branch except Croatian tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23729	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. She is a real respected representative of Ines Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23730	Dear Mr. Kleman, you've repeated the most important thing, you've actually said the most important thing that should have been said at this point, and that is that this law that is proposed is not comprehensive, and I hope that we'll do something to bring it back and make this distribution fairer. You forgot to say that, for example. Croatia Airlines pays the Tourist Board of Zagreb 1 million and 266 thousand, and one of them comes from 15 thousand kunas. We know how much Dubrovnik contributes, etc. And it really is necessary to change something urgently regarding this distribution or to decentralisation it in any way. What I'm interested in, you were one of the most successful ministers in the past government, did you do anything to change this law, because it's obvious that for a long time there's a need to equalize all the environments that contribute most to this tourist good result, not just where these economic operators are based. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23731	Thank you. The esteemed Anton Kleman will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23732	Dear colleagues, here's the thing you've realized in principle, and I think everyone who listened to this debate has realized that this law really needs to be completed in full. What I can tell you is that regardless of the shortness of my mandate, we have not sat down with our hands cut, but we have warmly attached our business and we have formed a working group to amend the Law on Tourist Communities, to change the Law on Tourist Tax and to tourist memberships that are accompanied by the laws of the Basic Law on Tourist Communities. And exactly the working group is therefore this story all of these analyses that we had about that law came up with that data. Thank you for correcting, obviously you have information about that, too. Yes, Croatia Airlines has paid almost 100% of the amount to the City of Zagreb. Here's the Secretary of State from Dubrovnik County specifically from Dubrovnik, so I'm asking you, is that normal? It's definitely not normal and it needs to be changed urgently. And I hope that on that trail that we started working at the Ministry of Tourism that we weren't just counting nights, that we weren't just counting revenues, but we really detected a few major problems in Croatian tourism. One of these is this law that will continue the way we started. And here's what I'm calling on the department's colleagues not to stop at, not to get lost in some stories. These really are the basic laws that must be passed, those are the laws that determine the entire public sector of Croatian tourism. I'll do it again. The competition's on us. For one fast-acting fund in the Croatian tourist community, we must therefore convene a tourist council. Today Turkey falls to you with several terrorist attacks, tourists flee to other destinations we have to lose a month to call the council respecting the Rules of Procedure and not know how to direct 5 million kunas or 10 million kunas is very important Just a moment, please, our field representations in Sweden, London or somewhere else where these tourists are leaving Turkey. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] So it needs to be done much faster, much more efficiently in that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23733	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23734	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Kleman, you've touched a few topics here. One of the topics that is very interesting is the reduction of the burden on the economy. This is what should be the homework of all because tourism as an economic branch has its potential but if we have additional economic burdens then of course it is not good and it is good that there is a reduction and that an economy like that of a respected colleague Boris in another discussion said bronchi is easier to breathe. It really has to be easier to breathe. However, you have touched one subject and these are membership fees, the way they are paid, and that is certainly something that needs to be changed. So being in the capital and getting a decent amount of those who have a seat is extremely good because they are already getting a seat. However, real work is happening elsewhere and surely the one who sits there without doing anything excessively gets it and then can, of course, have you free public transportation and all the other things. Advent in Zagreb is a great event. Advent in Zagreb was a real hit last year and I must admit it was a lot of heart to me when I saw that on all the TVs Advent in Zagreb, but it can always cross over you know. The path of good intentions is also the path to hell. It seems to me now that the capacity that is when you go a little bit is exactly the maximum that should be and that won't be good. However, it is really good that you mentioned here the way memberships are paid, the way the capital is given, and that it must also be taken into account for destinations where it is really seriously invested in tourism. So it would be convenient and your comment in that sense, because no matter how short you were minister, you have long experience with tourism, and that's something that would really need to be like tourism, like a pulsating branch, a branch where we've become quite attached to having some improvements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23735	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed Anton Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23736	Dear colleague, I'm glad we agree on this finding of mine. So you shouldn't be a super smart tourism minister to see what this is all about. But it's definitely not since yesterday, not during my term, but it's been a long time and nothing's happened all that time. And I'm surprised I have to tell you in some way my predecessors didn't have the strength. There were political motives and I have to admit, and not all ministers were in the same scissors. So some could have acted more politically, some could have acted less politically. They all did the best they could in the framework of some of their own, some of their political weights. But what you said was right. On Saturday night, I had to go park the car here from the square when I left at seven o'clock in the evening, and it took me an hour to get to Lang's square. So, now this is already a question of pre-named something or maybe even a little bit more of it all over the city, so there's a whole event if we're talking about an advent that I think is one of the better, so tourism events in Croatia. Especially in this time of the dead season, the city of Zagreb has made excellent use of its opportunity to present it well on the tourist market. And there's a lot of good things to say about it here. So, walking on foot from Lang's square over 30 buses I listed where a large number was from Slovenia, Italy, from other parts of Croatia. Therefore, it should be welcomed. But also the money from which it is done, this event and similar manifestations should be more justly distributed. Not only can the city of Zagreb win. I know I risk being Istrian here that I'm gonna start again, but I'm in HDZ, so I think I'm gonna be tolerated. It takes a lot to separate that whole story. A lot of money is being collected on the Adriatic, especially in the summer months. And over there, you see from these reports. to get absolutely nothing. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23737	Thank you. The next club of representatives is that of HNS, HSU on behalf of which will speak the esteemed Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23738	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Oh, this is a short bill. He was founded on the National Reform Plan of 2016 but I did, therefore, from this year, but I could not treat him as a reform law for reasons that for one reform law is very small. So he only commits himself to one fact of reducing the level of membership in tourist communities, while all other aspects are said nothing. Secondly, why not reform is the fact that a month and four days of public debate took place. But from the subjects, therefore, it is really about consulting the interested public but from the entities that are directly involved. As far as I can tell, only the Tourist Board of Vukovar-Srijem County reported here. And it is indicative that the tourist community of a county that has relatively modest revenues from tourism has great potential. However, the tourist community itself says only 40% are charged from membership fees. So when I connect that fact, so this saying, then I can't possibly link it to the goal set by this law, and the goal set by it is to create a better business environment. I don't know who, I don't know how or how. Second, the reduction of administrative burden and the cost of business. So 5% will be reduced to those who pay, and those who don't pay still won't pay, no matter what it says here, that the claims won't be left unpaid. I doubt that we are so effective, which means that this reduction could be a lot more than 5% if everyone paid their commitment neatly. I ask the question where is the system if we don't know exactly what we want with this. If someone can pay membership fees in the company headquarters, not where those who consume the tourist product in some way consume the obligation to pay a membership fee. So I say to be reform law here needs to precisely define the whole system how it's going to work, then it could have this epithet of reform law. This is one law which, of course, we at the HNS and HSU will support, given that it is a reduction in the burden on economic operators and we welcome that as a fact. But we cannot be convinced that something of quality importance in the functioning of tourist communities, especially those of tourism communities that do not have such generous incomes from the tourist tax and other activities that will significantly improve their situation with this. And I think Croatia deserves no matter how much tourism there will always be somewhere more, somewhere less. In one tourist county you have different municipalities and cities that have very different incomes and these differences will be. But Croatia definitely deserves more equal development in tourism, because it definitely has something to offer only in some way to motivate the creativity of people who are engaged in tourism, but also those economic operators who pay this membership fee. So they must, no matter what they pay. If I have paid, I have not fulfilled my obligation to tell me what tourists, or visitors, can offer. Therefore, a proactive attitude is required, not just a mere increase or reduction of a membership fee. A membership fee like this when we view it as a parafiscal imposition can be a burden to all of us, but that membership fee really isn't an invention to be a burden but to encourage and develop certain things. We tend to always talk about abolishing drastic reductions, but we get a little bit into the essence of why it exists. So, not for a long time, I welcome the adoption of a new Law on Tourist Communities and residence tax, but I would ask the promoters not only to work with the interested public but also to make a proposal and to really try to go on the ground and to make a little public debate and to invite those entities who really have what to say in it. Citizens can be revolved in one way or another and it is not, so we respect citizens but not every time an individual thinks it is relevant and does not mean that he knows the full functioning of the system. It may wish certain membership fees to be less, which does not mean that it does good to the overall system and to the overall branch of activity. So once again, we will support this as a first step, and we consider it a first step in a better solution to the overall problem of tourist communities, tourist tax and membership of tourist communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23739	Thank you very much. And there are several replicas for your exposure. It's the right thing to do with Anton Kleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23740	Dear fellow HRELJA, you have well detected some of the problems we have in Croatian tourism. I'll show you what's going on very clearly. So our system of tourist communities allowed virtually every municipality and city to have a tourist community which is not necessarily necessary. We do not need in every place and in every municipality a tourist community because it in itself does not, therefore, accomplishes not the tasks. I will tell you that all the bonds of payment of tourist membership and tourist fees can be in the range of what they pay into the tourism community's own budget and members of the tourist board so that they can work on the creation of tourist programs, so that's well done. However, you have in some small places where you have a gas station from INA that pays practically the most tourist membership fees that a council member has 50% and votes in that tourist community. And now you can think that someone who works, the chief of the gas station, is creating a tourist product in that village or in that municipality. There's nothing more to say than that, that comment says a lot about itself. So the key to this whole story is to make tourist communities a destination management agency for one area. We're not talking about a municipality or a city, we're talking about areas, about being united, about being more meaningful, about spending less, about giving a lot more on the market. Also, the proposal for what our working group gave for a proposal for a residence tax, that the residence tax be from up to, so from one euro to five euros, examples will show that the ministry will be set up to do so. It can't be imposed so there's a lot of that problem, I'd need a lot more time around it. The unit of local self-government from the centre of Zagreb cannot be imposed as it will form its own groups for payment of the residence tax. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23741	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Silvano Hrelja will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23742	Ma dear colleague Kleman, I see you're fierce in this matter, I've been discussing the law in principle, but you've actually confirmed to me that I need one public debate that will sort of put all these details on the table and ask for a certain solution. So of course I agree with you that the tourist community does not have to be exclusively connected to one unit of local self-government, it can become a flexible system because indeed all units of local self-government, for example. our Lanisce in Istria will hardly be able to introduce any special inducement to finance any tourist community, although the end is beautiful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23743	Thank you very much. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23744	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Hrelj, you have said something here. You have mentioned the word reform. Today, the second time we have mentioned reform cannot really be said to be this change and the addition that it is about reform. I'm usually a fan of the one where there's a problem somewhere, let's get this problem solved by problem, and if we go systematically to solve it, then it takes a long time to get lost on the road. But really reform if we are going to do something systematic, if we are going to track down what is being discussed, if we see that the tourist community is being reorganized at all, as well as membership fees that definitely need a way of paying. But this isn't about reform, it's only about one measure where the real redistribution of the economy from the imposition, and the reform, when it is, and that's where former Minister Kleman said there should be reform, and that's then reform. But the result of this reform should be something else. What's the slowness of the system, the trombone of the system, the trombone of the decision-making system should be much faster, much simpler in decision-making, and that's then reform, and then on that trail we need to talk about. So we try not to use the word reform every time we have to and when we don't have to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23745	Thank you very much. They will answer the esteemed Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23746	I thank you, colleague Taritas, for your observation, but I certainly wouldn't want to reform it because I really know the distinction between reform and something that is solving burning or ongoing problems. I wouldn't even have mentioned the word reform if it hadn't been for Mr. Kleman in his presentation of the club's name presented this law as a reform law. It can only be part of the overall reforms, it can be an announcement of possible reforms. And reforms need a much stronger approach, and we need some things that have been established here that are even thicker than the last century, that we need to set them on other grounds because everything has changed since then and relations in society, and the way economic operators function and the interest of economic operators, the interest of the guests that come to us. Everything has changed, and we remain with form in some past time and we must face it in order to create a reform package, and surely one law is not a reform, but all three laws with one public quality public debate could bring a quality reform that we will surely welcome and participate in such a reform package.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23747	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, the distinguished Sinisha Hajdaš Doncic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23748	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. It is often mentioned today, therefore, by the word reform that is likely to concern the entire structure of the state administration, so to speak, the ministries. So I'm actually going to start this exposure with one hypothesis that probably this is how the tourism ministry is supposed to end today. For a number of reasons. One reason is that tourism itself is not an economic branch but an amaga is an economic branch, so it is made by traffic, made by the economy, made by environmental protection, made by cultures. So, most European countries actually don't even have the Ministry of Tourism but it is integrated or in culture because tourism is today and culture, it's a journey and with the protection of the environment because tourism makes it very big to say the negative pain in pollution or saturation, but it's like this, a theoretical setup. And the practical position, therefore, as far as today's tourism ministry is concerned, so here I rule out Mr. Kleman who I personally consider to be, it is my impression that he was probably the best minister in Oreshkovic's government, now in some of these initiatives. But today's tourism ministry I say should definitely be abolished for a number of reasons. One reason, the biggest reason is that they allowed VAT to rise from 13% to 25 percent in the catering industry. Then, if the budget of the Republic of Croatia is on the spending side, so it's rising at 6.5 billion additional costs, then actually this law doesn't need to be passed at all because 10 percent actually means nothing to business entities. So, that's just one thing, although I can agree with Mr Hrejo that he prescribed it in some of our reform acts concerning the European Commission, but that doesn't really mean anything to business entities. So it's just one populist measure or measure to satisfy some form. So this should have been completely abolished by business entities. If there are 6.5 billion kuna additional expenditures, then another 200 million or 230 million kuna could be found mainly for the marketing activities of tourist communities or the Croatian Tourist Board, which in my opinion can therefore function with much, much less money. And related to this, the distribution itself, which you have also well detected, to say analized, where the largest companies actually pay in their seats, so teleoperators and energy companies and companies in fact the whole of Croatia, especially the rural or continental part, puts definitely in one neglected position, so where there is not enough means to create new tourist products or some new tourist activities, and that creates one inequality. And when we talk about the complete reform of the Croatian tourism system, then we should first talk about supplementing or adding several tourist laws, so on residence tax, tourist communities and the way I say I will rationalise the whole system. And I'm saying, maybe through my hypothesis, this is just like an intellectual provocation, we can first just talk about abolishing the tourism ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23749	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He's the first to honor Anton Kleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23750	Dear colleague, here I see it as a provocation definitely. Since you were in the same building as me, so a year ago, I know that you were good friends with my previous tourism minister, you certainly wouldn't have told him that he's here right now in the assembly. Normally, a little bit of a joke, but I know what you're alluding to. So, in an interview about four, five months ago, I told a journalist that the biggest problem of Croatian tourism today is the Ministry of Tourism. So, she looked at me so palely thinking that I didn't go to the yeast they would say to the Dalmatians, but I wanted to provoke the public a little bit and point out the problem that the structural tourism ministry is plagued, which is that everywhere is a horizontal object, and it's not a subject where something consulting is solved, where we are presidents of some committees, some of our people from the ministry and so on. And I wanted to point out the need for the Ministry of Tourism to be structured. So, if the Ministry of Tourism opened up a health tourism administration for nautical tourism, for rural tourism, if you want for cultural tourism, and for a part of tourism that develops within national parks where we would have completely different results than today, and we would worry completely differently about not jeopardising national parks but rather about taking greater care of it. So, the tourism ministry does, of course, but it needs to be better structured. ... Well, you're in there a little bit everywhere. .../Laughter./... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here in this spirit we also went to develop a CRO card project that I think goes beyond the resources of the tourism ministry itself. It's supposed to be the government's project, it's not incorporated into the government's economic policy for the next period. And I hope that there will be strength and knowledge that this project is being implemented because it seems to me that it is necessary especially for continental tourism and for that part, so you are coming, which is thermal tourism which is extremely important for the development of tourism products of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23751	Thank you. Here's the esteemed Sinisha Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23752	Thank you very much. So, Mr. Kleman, you see, I totally agree with you. I said I started with an intellectual provocation and they wouldn't believe that I told my colleague Lorenzo at least once a month that he needed to be abolished, but for what reason. That's exactly why all the normative acts don't actually come from the Ministry of Tourism. So tourism must have some care of food, environmental protection, culture, so all the laws actually bring in other ministries, and maritime affairs, and health care, and simply you, except for three, four laws, have no jurisdiction actually over nothing, and then you turn out to be an unwanted child even though you have some good ideas even I say in tourist land. So again, the Ministry of Tourism has nothing to do with it, but it has to do with dudes, and today it has to do with the Ministry of State Property. So this problem is essentially Croatian tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23753	The next replica of the esteemed Anke Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23754	Thank you very much. My colleague, Hajdash Doncic, you really asked this question and a little bit of us in the afternoon to start thinking about it, but we've thought about it before. I can fully agree with you and this colleague Kleman certainly knows well, and that the laws we often associate with tourism are actually passed by some others. Especially the Law on Tourist Land, not a small number of times is mentioned through this assembly and elsewhere, and you know that the Ministry of Tourism is bound by his hands, the Ministry of Agriculture decides, you will now also have the Ministry of Energy because there is this part that is connected to the other land. Equally handsome is an example when we define what a marina is, then the Ministry of Tourism had one way defined the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure on the other. Believe it or not, the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning in a third way, and in fact, when you mention the marina, you always tie it to the Ministry of Tourism. Equally when you think about the Ministry of Tourism and what it is outside and general, the methodologies by which the ministries and countries are defined are defined, there are several ways. One way is to send the message out. So, what message you want to send in, outwardly, is also the newly formed Ministry of Demography and, in the context of that, the Ministry of Tourism has the importance to show a message to the outside, but what is to the inside and know the problem of the process itself. It's different as defined processes, and it's third to humans. If we were to go as defined processes, I could also go one more step further and say that it seems to me that sport, culture and tourism have absolutely mutual importance, that it would be for managing extremely well, that there is even natural heritage no one happier than someone who manages tourism because then it can unite everything. Imagine that our top athletes who won the Olympics in Rio can serve in the promotion of tourism and not be a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23755	Thank you. They will speak to the esteemed Sinisha Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23756	Thank you very much, colleague Mrak-Taritash, for the addition of a constructive debate today. I can agree with you that, above all, the status of tourism is particularly in a country where there is a possibility that there is a distribution of probably close to 20 percent of the gross social product coming from tourism and if it is actually still connected as an amagam of economic branches, it is probably something more, but since Croatia still does not have so far as I know. The satellite tourism balance means that it follows exactly as some even South American countries have, so it's a matter of statistics, it's very difficult for you to assess the impact of certain economic branches that actually have tourism on it. So this is definitely a political message, that the Minister of Tourism is that he may even be the Deputy Prime Minister in the Croatian case. Or then we can talk about sports, so I'm just as weird here's the same question that might be referred to. Why, say, basketball players or handball players have a silly name for HEP. What does that mean? If you are in international competitions you better have an inscription: visit Croatia, so make it a Croatian tourist product. Which means HEP, which means PLINACRO or something if you play basketball in Brazil. Write: VISIT CROATIA as it has..., and well, all this can be put in the common register and then you have general branding. And I'm saying it's all a matter of political message.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23757	Thank you very much. Next we will move on to individual debates, and that is the distinguished Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23758	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. The membership law in the tourist community is a grateful topic for the debate. I can see it's not very interested, but when you get a little deeper into the membership system in the tourist communities, it's a very interesting topic because the fact is that this law and the previous government have changed twice in much larger reductions: 15 per cent in 2014 and 20 per cent in 2015. For these 5 percent we have almost 40 percent reduction in three years of a single charge called parafiscal given that it is paid by those who do business, businesses, small businesses, bigger, paid by small tenants, paid by hotels, so all those who somehow touch tourism in their business. When we talk about total revenues on this basis of 220 million kuna, it means that these 5% reliefs would be somewhere between 10, 11 million kunas, which is not insignificant, but the fact is that in a very short time this debate also showed that the issue of tourist membership in tourist communities is something that should be approached comprehensively in terms of some of the other laws that the Ministry of Tourism is dealing with. Because this tourist membership in two different tourist communities has two different achievements. In the tourist communities of small municipalities and towns or small destinations on the coast, it is almost insignificant in terms of impact, however, in the tourist communities of large cities such as Zagreb, Rijeka, Split, Zadar, Sibenik, Dubrovnik, etc., it has a very big impact. So let's say 5 percent in my tourist community from which I come effect is maybe 7 thousand kuna. But in the Tourist Board of the City of Zagreb it is 3 million kuna. It's not small and it's not meaningless. So that the story of tourist communities cannot stand on its own, i.e. The membership fees and it is indeed time for the Ministry of Tourism to be dealt with and talked about the residence tax, so let's see what we can do about it. For, for example, income from a tourist tax in my tourist community is 80 percent of all revenues. The tourist membership fee in the Tourist Board of the City of Zagreb is almost 90%, while the tourist fees are only 10%. So, these relationships are a little disturbed and these relationships need to be managed skillfully in order to know where we're going to make a positive step, and where are we going to do a negative step because what makes the revenues of a tourist community? It is a tourist tax, a tourist tax in nautical tourism if we have a community that is at sea or has certain entities dealing with nautical tourism, are made up of tourist membership, revenues from the budget of maybe the municipality, the city or somewhere from some other budgets of the county or state, revenues from some other activities and have that item some other income comes from sponsorships and everything else, donations etc. The expenditures are mostly more or less equal to everyone and the law is almost and given. There are expenditures for workers, to encourage the development of tourist infrastructure, events, various materials that each tourist community prepares and is certainly the most difficult procedure or what every tourist community must give 30% of these revenues to the municipality, the city to which they come but only from a tourist tax. So if my tourist community has to give 30% of the nearly 700 thousand kuna to its municipality if it has to be done by the City of Zagreb Tourist Board, then it will give 30% of the 7 million it has, meaning somewhere 2 million to the City of Zagreb. We think that this is the whole thing to be observed because, for example, the City of Zagreb Tourist Board's revenues amount to 60 million kuna from tourist membership fee, 60 million kuna. The income from the residence tax last 2015 amounted to 7 million and 700 thousand kuna. We see this disproportionateness in terms of the importance of residence tax and membership fee. In those 60 million who paid the most on the basis of these fees prescribed by the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities. She paid the most retail trade, probably the shopping malls and all the others who deal in trade, 26 million in terms of their own incomes that are related to the work in which they deal with tourism. After that comes the information and communication 23 million kunas, most likely paid by teleoperators all those involved in telecommunications. Well then very interesting real estate business, means all companies dealing with sales or purchase or renting real estate of 8 million kuna. So then there are administrative and auxiliary services with 4.5 million kunas just so we know the shares when we talk about VAT and catering services that we don't talk about how much anyone reports and how much traffic they make and we see very fast membership shows what's going on in this sector. When we talk about my town, the City of Rijeka is similar to your relationship because there, for example, tourist membership for 2015 amounted to 7 million and 119 thousand kuna and incomes from the tourist tax of only 1 million and 290 thousand kuna. So the big cities here can be concluded depending largely on their tourist community's revenues from tourist memberships. So I say that there is a big job before this government especially in the tourism ministry, and we have also announced it through the programme that we have presented in the elections, which is that we will be affected by the issues of the very formation of tourist communities because that is something that we finally have to solve. Given the many stories that appear especially in the continental part of tourism about the possibilities of financing these tourist communities, their survival opportunities and what they can accomplish in their work. The second question is certainly a question about the House Tax Act because looking at all this data I can easily conclude that only raising the residence tax by 0.50 lipa or 0.30 lipa we very easily in many, the largest number of tourist communities can compensate for this amount so that we can fully abolish membership in these tourist communities or the issue of tourist land. This is what the story of all stories is if we want to develop tourism in the next ten years because there are really many unresolved relationships. And of course the fourth is, and she covered all of this, the tourism development strategy in the Republic of Croatia in 2015. - 2020. I think, and then with projections by 2025 especially in the investment work, so reinvestment is something we really need and then the development of continental tourism and other forms of tourism, above all, of health tourism that appears as a space within which tourism can be said to develop and that can be added value to Croatian tourism with all that we have now. Tourist membership is touched and part of family accommodation i.e. small tenants or popular Zimmer Frei. We had 40,000 small tenants if I caught it well that had about 400 thousand accommodation units somewhere. And that is the category that this government must pay full attention to because there is a great space for progress in the development of tourism in terms of quality that will be offered both in terms of prices and in terms of the content that I can offer. However, it is also these small tenants who may have the most objections to this law or this membership fee because they pay it and practically have absolutely nothing to say. And there are the biggest challenges with regard to small tenants with tourist communities because their demands always go in the sense that they are looking for certain infrastructure activities, as well as the arrangement of the places where people are staying in the arrangement of services provided at the level of certain destinations. So with what they pay the flat tax, the residence tax also flatly this third income, that is to say the part they pay and try to figure out what of all of it they can get. What is currently under way are amendments to the HRT Act and I will ask you to actively engage. There is a parafiscal imposition that has been introduced through amendments to the Law on HRT and these are seasonal subscriptions for RTV receivers that create a disturbance on the market. We have a double court practice where in one part of Croatia is judged in favour of small tenants and in another part of Croatia in other courts is decided in favour of HRT. This needs to be resolved and I believe that this part of the law should be equalized with the law, i.e. with a practice that is valid in the City of Zagreb. If in the City of Zagreb you have a house with 10 TV receivers or 10 apartments you pay one fee, if you have it on the coast then you pay 1, 2 or even 3 depending on the number of receivers you have. And there's a lot of trouble, and I'd like to ask you to get involved in it actively and ask for an amendment to that article. Here's my contribution to this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23759	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the esteemed Anton Kleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23760	Dear fellow Boric, you've detected these problems well. But I would just like to warn you of one situation if it wasn't for how much money the city of Zagreb gets, but in what way it gets, which is the split. So, the point is yes, I'll remind you from the previous debate. Therefore, of the total of 6 million and 41271 HT, which he paid in total, i.e. he collected and paid in the accounts of the tourist communities 6 million and 9 thousand paid in Zagreb. The VIP of 3 million 117 paid 3 million 102 Zagreb. Thus, TELE2 paid the entire amount of a million and 657000 to the city of Zagreb. Croatia Airlines of a million and 266 thousand has paid almost everything only to Dubrovnik 15000 kuna, please. So that's what this is about. INA, or Croatian television, paid 31% of the income to the city of Zagreb. Here's the key to the problem. Not how many there are, but the way he got it. You mentioned a residence tax that should be increased to manage to amortise this deficit. So, for my short term, I tried to have one final debate with all participants in the tourism traffic of the Republic of Croatia, so with associations. But we managed to arrange a story with everyone but the hotelers. And I didn't want in one technical mandate to rape my signature to raise a residence tax that I think is absolutely necessary for us to raise it because we have the lowest tourist tax in the environment. Even Bosnia and Herzegovina has 10 kuna, and we have 7 kuna. We've had a change of residence tax, but you know how? Less. There was one euro so we reduced it to round, so 7 kuna. And another situation I'd like to say to the travel agencies. They bring the most people, so tourists to the Republic of Croatia. But I can only participate in the creation of tourism traffic through membership fees. Why? You bring a guest to a tourist destination, he goes to a hotel, there is a tourist tax charge. They get the right to participate in the creation of tourism traffic, and often because of the small amount of membership of a tourist agency they cannot participate in it. That's something to change.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23761	Thank you. A colleague, Boric, will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23762	Thank you very much. Comrade Kleman, I agree with you, and it's not a problem. I did not present the revenues of the city of Zagreb's tourist income as a problem, but rather to see what this law creates in the revenues of large cities' tourist communities and what it creates in the revenues of small municipalities, towns or coastal or island tourist communities, because it is a huge disproportionateity, it is a huge disproportionateity. And there's a space within which the Ministry of Tourism should act on me. So if they need to stay and it's going to work, let's keep tourist memberships in big cities, but then somewhere else I say, let's completely stop 'cause they don't have any practical influence too big. I know that 100,000 kunas may be a big deal in my tourist community. But if we can make them better from some other incomes, from a residence tax that's going to be 50 grand bigger than now we've solved everything. Absolutely, then, we freed all those small business owners some 100,000 kunas, and you're your income or the difference you're going to lose through your residence tax. And not just that, for 50 lips, they'd get a lot more than a hundred thousand kunas. So I say, Zagreb is a big city and sports competitions that appear in Zagreb serve us all both for honor and pleasure. And we can't say that this tourist community doesn't finance I don't know the Snow Queen, now and advent, and then a number of events that happen in various sports, etc. It is their tasks and promotions and they do, their financial plans for all tourist communities are out there. However, here I think that through this debate we have also sent to the tourism ministry what we expect. So one complete redefine of all laws in terms and revenues that finance tourist communities, but also the relief of economies, small tenants, and then that we can have a full reform of this system and that we know what we will do for the next ten years in that part of which we always boast, and tourism is really a branch with which we want to boast. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23763	Finally, we will be told by the esteemed State Secretary at the Ministry of Tourism Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23764	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I thank all of you who have been constructively involved in the debate on this subject. I must say, you've opened up a lot of issues that are, of course, relevant to tourism, but first about the measure itself. It's really not about some reform that's comprehensive, it's about a measure like Mr. Kleman said. So he mentioned the measure and, of course, within the framework of the reform policy that takes place at the government level and through a number of resolutions, actually through all the resolutions. The measure will, however, mean discharging the economy by ten million kunas, which is not some large amount when we look at it, but it can certainly be significant in smaller economic operators. Here in that sense, and of course that was one of our goals. However, a question of law was raised here, amending the Law on Tourist Communities and amending the Law on residence tax. It's absolutely necessary to amend both laws. I have also announced this in my opening section for the first quarter of 2017, and I believe that you MPs will also contribute to the better adoption of these two laws in order to really regulate both areas in the right way. In particular, we will have to have a broader discussion there and with, of course, the field, with all those directly involved with both the counties and cities and municipalities and the tourist communities themselves, because we think the time has come for this system to be a little different. As far as income from his fellow member Boris was concerned, he was very picturesque. And I must say, of course, that we also consider and share the opinion that it is unfairly distributed funds because large companies, large companies, are making their incomes throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia. One of the companies mentioned... i.e. telecommunications companies make revenues throughout the area, and even the most income is in tourist resorts where tourists use rhoming. There's their biggest income de facto. It is not fair, of course, that the revenues made throughout Croatia, especially in this part of the tourist Adriatic, should be distributed in a way that most of these funds have been paid in the city of Zagreb. Of course we will take care of the more fair distribution, and the fact as you have pointed out, Mr. Kleman, that the residence tax in neighbouring BiH is not exactly a developed tourist country if we speak and compare with Croatia but the residence tax is higher by a significant percentage. We have 7 kuna in them is a 10 kuna tourist tax and speaks enough about the need to redefine that part, and of course it is one of the areas where we can make up for these reductions in membership fees that will go into the future because we need to coordinate with the European acquis. There have also been many more open questions regarding HRT, we will take care of all these proposals and I thank you all once again for a constructive debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23765	Thank you very much. The replica was reported by distinguished representative Josip Boris. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23766	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary. I completely agree with you and I just wanted to add it means that we had a similar story, it was just about the story of the profit tax that was at one point the most achieved in the city of Zagreb and the state then reacted and took it completely before its own, and let it through the income tax on some other things. I think that this story is similar and that we need to solve this problem independently of what the revenues from the tourist membership are being allocated among other things and for the undeveloped tourist communities, i.e. those who have certain problems in their functioning in terms of finance. And when we look at the financial plans of the tourist communities, let's just say the city of Zagreb for 2015 you have a surplus of 20 million kuna that they carry over next year. You have the seas of these small tourist communities that cannot absolutely reach certain financial resources and certainly there is a space where it must use this story wisely in the Ministry of Tourism to give this story at the level of Croatia well distributed and then... certain activities that we want, especially continental tourism if we want to develop it to have a certain level of income. That's all I wanted to suggest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23767	Thank you very much. Here's the esteemed secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23768	Thank you. I agree with you the very distribution of the income tax was the same as the membership fees now, so I hope one of the solutions will follow that lead. I missed out on something short on the tourist land that you mentioned and stayed in the debate, we formed a working group in the ministry that will prepare a proposal to amend and supplement the law in agreement with the Ministry of State Assets, so I hope that we will also be able to pick up more funds that will continue to contribute to the development of tourism in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23769	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And tomorrow we will begin work at 9.30 and the first law will be the Final Proposal of the Law on Confirming the Framework Agreement between the Swiss Federal Council and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the implementation of the Swiss-Croatian Co-operation Programme to reduce economic and social inequalities within the enlargement of the EU, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 52. Thank you very much. Have a nice afternoon. Session interrupted at 16.04 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-12-0.u23770	The next law is, the next Final Bill is on amendments to the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 61. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending the Law on memberships in tourist communities. Please engage, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes were 90 votes in favour, 16 abstentions and 1 against the Law on Amendments to the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities.
