ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u7338	Thank you, Mr. President. Namely, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HNS Club to point out a problem that is already a problem, and it's likely to be from autumn and it's free transportation of high school students.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u7339	Okay, thank you. Here you go, dear colleague Ivan Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u7340	Dear President of the Parliament, on behalf of the Croatian Law Club Ante Starcevic, please pause for 10 minutes to inform about several things that are current in Croatian agriculture, and the wrong strategy is to let the citizens hear something.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u7341	Okay, thank you. And someone else? Aha, the esteemed representative Goran Dodig.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u7342	... HSS-HDS requesting a break, the topic is the current political situation. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u7343	Okay, thank you. Anyone else? No, I don't. So we have three. So I'll see you again at 9.50. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u7345	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, I want to, we asked on behalf of the HNS Club to warn once again about the problem that is now and which will especially be current in the 9th month, means the beginning of the new school year. It is that this government has not provided financial resources for the transport of high school children for the 2016-2017 school year. Today I was in Varazdin and together with young people in Varazdin County, high school students, a peaceful protest we tried to point out the injustice that this government is doing and is primarily dependent on the minister of education, which Minister Shustar did not secure money in the budget for the transport of high school students. I would like to say that what I know best, and I believe that such a situation is, throughout the Republic of Croatia, the transportation of high school students who were one positive side and which allowed a growing number of young people to enroll in high school. One fact is that by 2005, when the first free transportation of high school students was introduced in Varazdin County after that in 2006, between 25% and 30% of high-school students enrolled in a high school whether it was vocational or four-year-old school. Unfortunately, we are afraid, and today, young people have shown this with both the transparencys and the messages they sent that something might happen that I believe none of us here in the Parliament, and I hope Minister Sustar is aware and the current prime minister that it will not be good. I would like to convey some of the messages that young people today have made publicly and through the media. What's particularly not good, this decision, is about the property censorship we tried to be, I would like to stress it in particular, about what they said in Varazdin County were at the end of 2008. Unfortunately, I'm afraid by the 9th month, this government and the minister alone will not be able to see how co-finance could be made. And what's our recommendation and our proposal to get together as soon as possible while this government is still together, or maybe we hear that it's talking about over-dealings or some other way to put a position for free transportation of high school students into the budget as quickly as possible through budget rebalances. What's also a problem and it's also tied to high school students, especially that's the same as the new curricula. And today it was the same message, and it was asked to the mayor and to me as a parliamentary representative, which would be further along with it. Well, there will be no last time for all of us colleagues and colleagues to think carefully about whether we have a future for young people to leave because believe me and statistics show and these are also very clear today and asked the Minister, Minister Šutar why the ticket to Germany is cheaper than the monthly short my parents will have to pay. Appeals to Minister Shustar, appeal to the current prime minister as soon as possible, provide funding for free transportation of high school students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u7346	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSP club, the next one will speak for the esteemed representative Ivan Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u7347	... Madam MPs and gentlemen of the Parliament. [[Specially enabled.]] The Croatian party of rights, the club, will look back a little on the negative strategies in agriculture for a long time. Negative food balance, more import than export. Within 2 years of EU accession, 40% of this negative balance has been increased. And according to data, we spend 58% more than we produce, which means for Croatian food producers, Croatian agricultural production is accessible to the market of 500 million people. We have entered the EU politically prepared but fallen economy, especially agriculture ruled by and still ruled by an importing, importing consumer rather than a productive production logic which is a characteristic of EU agricultural production. The problems associated with Croatian agriculture for many years have deepened by entering the European Union. From one to three billion dollars, food imports to Croatia increased. This high import concerns the Association of the Living Village whose maximum land is a peasant, food to the people. The accumulated problems should be dealt with systematically, strategically, not individually, only by milkmen, cattlemen or the like. So the basis is in the many years of wrong strategy and the social demographic problem of the village and rural areas. Croatia has agricultural land, the domestic market and tourists and the system is not functioning. Unfortunately, we're still wandering. The fragmented agricultural holdings, the OPGs should be recognised as a fundamental factor in agricultural development. The entry into the EU has not stopped the decline in the number of OPGs, reduced the heat of cereals, milk production, meat, fruit, vegetables and generally food. By destroying domestic production, the processing industry remains raw. The legislative frameworks did not direct development in a European way that is the basis for the development of agricultural production of the CAPs and Croatia continued with the policy of industrialising agriculture, i.e. The socialist combinations were taken over by private companies so that a large part of the subsidies are received by them and this is contrary to EU principles aimed at supporting family farms. It is unacceptable that domestic processors must import agricultural products. You'll answer that's a free market. I don't think the EU can come under pressure to establish a cooperative relationship between farmers and agricultural products processors. Therefore, the ministry must launch an early revision of such relations between the OPG and processors. There's a tourist season coming up. We should offer the guest quality Croatian food, not to offer them 10x-bound food at a higher price than our hosts are forced to buy in trade chains. These guests can bring with them cheaper or buy in markets. The idea of connecting green and blue Croatia, exports to our country is phenomenal but has fallen with poor policy and action of easy import lobbys. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u7348	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the HSS Representatives' Club, the HDS will speak to the distinguished representative Goran Dodig. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u7349	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. I had a need to take advantage of these five minutes and present some of my views on what is happening today on the political stage in Croatia but primarily focusing on this Parliament. So, since the beginning of this House, since the formation of the Parliament, or the establishment of relations in this House that are needed to make it work, there have been many problems. I thought about where it came from and whether democracy is the one that generates such problems in itself, but then I found written documents about how democracy would work well must be something called the culture of democracy. Unfortunately, however, since it is called the culture of democracy in this House, I haven't found much, and therefore I don't blame anyone individually, I blame us all together. I blame myself, too, because it just seems to me that we've entered a trap that we're not able to get out of. Legally, it is the right of every political option to represent its own interests, there is no doubt but it is unacceptable for this House to seek business indeterminates so that the Parliament does not function. The first time I've faced the fact that most of the Parliament's exits have been broken we think here's something that's inadmissible. It's not just most of us sticking to the fact that Parliament has to have a quorum but it's a commitment and a minority no matter what he thinks and how he behaves, I mean, come on, it's absolutely like that. My colleagues, my colleague Maras, don't be sassy. I'm asking you not to talk or disturb my exposure. I'll never do that. I can't talk to the SDP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u7350	I'm asking you first of all not to throw yourself out of the bench and here's my colleague, Dodig, you tell me what you were thinking. Comrade Dragovan, don't throw it out of the bench, and colleague Dodig, tell me what you were thinking.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u7351	Is there any point in saying what I meant in this way? You can dance here while I talk to them, right? You want me to act like this all the time when you start talking. I want to use this for such controversy. That's why we're in this situation. I'm asking you colleagues to calm down. It's a question of home-schooling. I'm sorry, tossing someone while they're talking. And I'm asking you, colleague Dodig, to proceed. Yes, we are witnessing today that this House is pre-decommissioned. We are witnessing the fact that this Parliament is acting on conflict rather than constructive cooperation. We are witnessing that this Parliament and the people, all parliamentary representatives, have given themselves the right to judge and the Parliament is not a courtroom. We're witnessing that based on the indications we have we're committing the social murders of our colleagues. When you insult a parliamentary representative, I assure you, you have offended yourself. When you insult yourself, you insult the entire Parliament, when you insult the entire Parliament, you insult the institution in which we are. It's not allowed for anyone to tell anyone in this House that he's a thief. That's not allowed. It's not allowed for anyone in this House to insult anyone else. And that's what I want to say today. The parliament is not a place where they can express their thoughts based on media in order to draw conclusions that grow into a general hysteria in which people suffer, in which we suffer as an institution. The Parliament is not a polygon where we could really do what we want or where we're going to drink coffee that costs four kunas. We have the right to talk about the government, I have the right to talk about anyone at this time, I have the right to ask the question and the Prime Minister Oreshkovic whether his function requires 10 thousand ha of the country by Slavonia or to create circumstances for peasants in Slavonia to stay and work. I have the right in this House to say why we don't talk about interest on a loan totaling more than a principal. I have the right to ask these questions, even if it's the prime minister I voted for. I'm right, I'm right, and I'm asking the opposition to back me up if he thinks it's okay, not that the apriori rejects it because I'm going to support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u7352	Thank you very much. Here we will now go to the agenda point with which we should have started today's work, which is - Report on the business of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2014. The Report is submitted to the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families pursuant to Article 8. Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the War Veterans Committee. You received a report from the board at the session. The government delivered an opinion. Does the applicant's representative want to further explain the report? Yes, a respected member of the Ivica Tolic Fund Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11161	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. I am Ivica Tolic, a member of the Management Board of the Croatian Defence Fund where I am one of the four representatives of Croatian defenders. I was a member of the Fund Management Board during the previous four-year period. A bit of a surprise and unexpected addition was given to my task in short to present a report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund for 2014. In accordance with Article 8. The Governing Board of the Fund reports to the Croatian Parliament on the operation of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2014. This report shall contain, in addition to the fund's information prospectus and the most important decisions of the Management Board as well as the instructions of the Management Board of the Erste asset management d.o.o. on how to vote in the main assembly of companies owned by the Fund. As in previous years, the Governing Board shall be a third of the Fund’s 2013 profits in accordance with Article 29. Law on the Croatian Defence Fund intended for development, social and humanitarian measures to improve the status of Croatian defenders and members of their families. 32 million 490 thousand 737 kuna has been paid to the Fund for the scholarship of children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, and 5 million kunas have been paid to Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. In total, 7078 scholarships were paid to children killed, imprisoned or missing Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, children from the Homeland War and children of volunteers from the Homeland War, which remains the largest amount of scholarships paid in the Republic of Croatia by one legal person. The Governing Board of the Fund continued with an initiative to amend the Law on Management and Availability of State Property in order to legally regulate the obligation of the State to assign part of the shares to the Croatian Defence Fund without compensation for all future privatisations of the company owned or majority owned by the Republic of Croatia. Contact with the competent ministry, i.e. the State Office for the Management of State Property, has been reached with a view to achieving this problem and an amendment to the Law on Management and Property of the Republic of Croatia has been initiated. It is requested that the law prescribe a minimum percentage of shares that are transferred to the Homeland War Fund and members of their families in future privatisations and public enterprises without charge, and that the provision also covers companies with limited liability, i.e. that this minimum amount also applies to business shares. It is also required that the government make a mandatory decision on the transfer of shares, i.e. the business stakes of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families, not leaving in this case the places of disposition as foreseen by the current formulation. Some positive indications were made in 2015, but not until the end of this period, were not followed by a request from the Management Board of the Fund. That's it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11162	Thank you very much. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on War Veterans, Honorable Representative Djakic. Josip Djakic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11163	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. A report on the operations of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for the year 2014 at its sixth meeting on 4 May 2016 discussed the report on the business of the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families for the year 2014 which was delivered to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Management Board of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and by members of their families by act of 17 September 2015. The Committee held the discussion as a parent body in accordance with Article 91(1) of the basic Regulation. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee also held the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the act in question. The assets of the fund on 31 December 2014 amounted to 877 million 716 thousand 150 kuna and 10 June, down by 210 million kuna compared to the year before. The number of shares on the same day was a million 844 thousand 468, down from 103,000 55 shares. The Fund’s Management Board has initiated amendments to the Law on governance and availability of state assets in order to prescribe the obligation of the State to allocate part of the shares. 7% has been proposed in order to fund any future privatisation of companies owned or owned by the Republic of Croatia. A draft bill on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families has also been drawn up, which will be referred to the adoption procedure after public debates and given opinions by the competent authorities. In the debate followed by the board members, they pointed out that the trend in capital reduction in the fund within a few years is constant, as a result of the purchase of the shares that defenders sell, as well as the poor management of the fund. Compared to previous years, profits have been significantly reduced. Under urgent circumstances, funds must be provided for the allocation of shares to those defenders who have not been granted the same because of their subsequent status. And it's about three to four thousand people, or an amount of about 10 million. It is also necessary to change the way the Fund works and manages, which means that the Fund’s Management Board should accept suggestions and proposals from management or the Fund Management Society, which has not been the case so far. Also, for the Fund is a characteristic constant money outflow through the sale of shares, and a occasional flow of money. The Fund's investment policy must change because it has the characteristics of the privatisation fund, and if it continues with the way it works so far, the Fund is doomed, and thus the Fund for the scholarship of defenders and Croatian Defence Funds financed from the fund's profits. The Government of the Republic of Croatia did not fill the fund to a sufficient extent with quality shares, and as an example, it is stated that 7% of the shares in Croatia insurance where the Republic of Croatia still has 28% of the shares in the portfolio. After the debate was held, the committee decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the following conclusion: "A report on the business of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2014. "Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11164	Thank you very much. Before I open the debate, I'm asking you colleagues and colleagues, everyone from all parties, especially the board presidents, some of them here are looking at them right here and calling the board and they don't have a quorum. That's inadmissible! That's inadmissible! I ask the presidents nicely to convene committees and all members to participate in the committee's work. It's an integral part of our job, but it's a much more important part of our job than this stage right here. I know that many people like this stage here because then they get maybe some second on TV, etc. But the basic business takes place on committees and the coming to work on committees is mandatory, our obligation. A couple of committees haven't had a quorum in a while. They were called neatly, well-invited to the presidents, properly called but had no quorum. And I'm asking nicely all my colleagues not to mind which party is who, from who I belong to to the opposition parties, I'm asking you nicely to participate in the committee's work. It's our responsibility. And let's not be surprised when the public sees us the way they see us if some committees aren't able to meet twice because they don't have a quorum. So, I'm asking all of you nicely to get the committees done, preferably if you can, you can't tomorrow, tomorrow is Friday, but then Monday and Tuesday to take care of all the boards. The government has sent a whole series of documents that can't come to the agenda or I won't put them on the agenda past the board. I could put them on the agenda, but I don't think that's right because the boards exist. I therefore ask nicely once again that all committees be held on Monday and Tuesday and that all board members be present. Here, thank you very much. ... They know very well those who didn't come. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I am now opening a debate on the report on the business of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2014. On behalf of the SDP club, the first one will speak for the esteemed representative Predrag Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11165	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here today we will discuss a report which was made up in 2014 but in the absence of fresher things, we can also discuss this. Commodore Tolic and Mr Djakić have already provided some information, or all the information that is relevant to this report, and I will remind you colleagues and colleagues a little bit and return to the history of this fund in just a few sentences. So, after an unprecedented robbery of Croatia through the famous Croatian privatisation when 200 families settled down, and Croatian defenders who have been since '91. '95. were in trenches and at the battlefield when they returned home they realized that there were no more of these factories or jobs or businesses and then it took many more, many more years for the enthusiasm of several defence associations, several individuals in 2004 established a Croatian Defence Fund to be involved in the privatisation of companies that were working in the former Yugoslavia. But what happened? It's all been sold out and all that's left is change. From what was worth was the INA that was sold in 2008, we know which way, I'll remind you that too. There are records showing that at one session Croatian defenders say they will not sell the shares of INA that seven days later Croatian defenders would say that they sold INA and indirectly not directly but indirectly 7% of the shares that Croatian defenders sold to MOL practically pushed INA into the property of Hungarians. Now in the Croatian Defence Fund, the main shares that defenders have had for several years has been shares of Croatian Telecom and it accounts for 98.5% of the total portfolio of this fund. The Fund works according to the law that was made up in 2004 and has always worked since. Here we let the new government pass a new law because here it was said that the fund was mismanaged, which I disagree with. We worked in accordance with the law. Unfortunately, the value of the T-COM stock in 2011 to this day I am sorry not to discuss the 2015 Report because it was not processed by the relevant committee but the data are almost the same. It's a small matter of numbers. So the shares of T-COM during that period fell from nearly 300 kn to the current 141, 142 kuna. It is said here that some new companies are not included in the defence fund portfolio, however, it should be recalled that in 2010, the government that then changed the Law on the privatisation of companies in the full or large ownership of the Republic of Croatia and the definition that the Croatian government is giving 7% to Croatian defenders has been converted into cans. But then we didn't see the defenders react in any way, there were no protests, no tents, no self-incineration of gas bottles, and no telling what else, they fell with their paws. And that is why it can be given then at the privatisation of Croatia insurance that Croatian defenders did not get what they were supposed to be, which was but it was a definition of which. So here, as said in the report the total dividend each year is divided into a third, a third goes into the business of the fund, a third goes to Croatian defenders through dividends and one third the most noble is divided into the scholarship of children of Croatian defenders through education and for the Croatian Defence Fund. As already said here in 2014 7078 scholarships and 2103 assistance were awarded to Croatian defenders in a difficult economic social situation. Of course, additional funding is needed, and in future privatisations we expect Croatian defenders to get at least that one piece that they have earned greatly. Some catastrophic data have also been presented here, so during the first year of the fund's operations approximately 50% of the stakes have been raised and the current 50% still stands pretty tight and there is no danger of the fund being shut down. The Fund's board of directors worked well, the same people remained in the new meeting of the Fund's Management Board, only the minister changed. One more thing to say is that we need to pass a new law and ensure that the fund is charged. And for the very end, what do you say? It's a great honor to have made up the 2014 report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11166	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He is the first of his distinguished representatives, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11167	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. It's a sad thing when the defense minister had in his portfolio and managed by him. It is unfortunate that he does not know that the INA was sold by Racan's government during SDP 25+1 shares and it is unfortunate that a Croatian minister is not familiar with this. What is the meaning of the gold share and the management of it? He didn't have a 51% majority package today either. Even today, MOL doesn't own the INA. It is regrettable that the Croatian defence minister and the defender himself do not know that there was a home fund and that there were only 200 wealthy families. The Homeland Fund, which was awarded by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the shares of the Press and Ortopedia and other factories in the Republic of Croatia that were positively operating and which existed until the time of the arrival of the SDP to power. And apparently supported the dividends of Croatian defenders. That's when the Homeland Fund, the printing stock sold to Kutley, disappeared, and then the story just splits, no more dividends, no more press shares. And we should know that the stock and capital market must be monitored by a professional and quality person and that is the Fund Management Society. And when it proposes the activities that are best at the moment following world trends, then you come to the fact that when the INA stock was the largest and it was 300 kuna at the moment when we reacted, while the defenders accepted that it was sold and there were 48% stakes to sell and collect, in fact, then we achieved 270 kunas at the most possible price at that moment and time, 2800 kuna at that moment. It's the biggest value that's come, they're paid, they're all paid to the defenders, they're remaining vault records for 28% of the interest at the time. It's a real business, that organization that ran and society you chased by your ignorance, incompetence and unemployment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11168	Thank you. Although he did not raise, the honourable representative Matic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11169	Here, but I'll just take a minute. So Mr. Djakić, you have always been a master especially for the manipulation of Croatian defenders who fall for the words and use of expressions that they do not understand. So Colloquial is said to have been given into ownership, not owned, but managed. If you think that's the difference, I don't think so. For nothing, I'd rather give them what's left of them. So they manage thanks to the indirect thanks of 7% of the shares that Croatian defenders pushed to the Hungarians, and you look and you can look freely there is Commodor Tolic, who is a member of the board of directors, so the minutes seven days earlier and by no chance sell the shares of INA no, no, that is our base, not when after seven days of copernica crafts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11170	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11171	Thank you very much. It is not good to provide information in official documents. And do not bring them forth as it says, but as it pleases me. So, fellow Matic, you were the minister sitting in the government when a strange decision was made to privatise Croatia's insurance. I have not heard in one word that you, as Croatian Defence Minister, have said, and in the Croatian State's portfolio there is still quite a percentage before the capitalisation when that share fell by some 12, 13% remained quite a percentage owned by the Croatian state. So you could transfer those 7%. You are well aware that in 2010, the HEP Privatisation Act was put out of effect, but today, if anyone ever decides on such a move, they have an obligation to give funds to Croatian defenders. INA, so why have Croatian defenders made a decision to share these money? 2800 per share, 7% know exactly what it is, times 2800 that's 2 billion and 100, 200 million. At that moment, the Croatian Defence Fund, which by property, which was the far strongest financial fund in the Republic of Croatia, was far the strongest. Its total value without the potential amounted to over 7 billion kuna at that time. The fact that someone is playing with the value of HT shares, expecting that they will, and that is a good thing that the Croatian Fund did not sell them because they dropped the price, let the Croatian Fund leave it. But don't play politically with the things that are written, which stand clearly. But I repeat, if you are calling someone else by the moral right that you did not ask for 7% when you raised your hand to privatise Croatia's insurance and for the strange capitalization of Croatia's insurance.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11172	Thank you. The distinguished representative Predrag Matic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11173	Dear fellow Shuker, therefore you are an even bigger master than Mr. Djakic for a twisted story and compose it the way it suits you. So look at the government session, what you can't see are the talks with the former finance minister about the 7%. But I'm going to repeat this sentence that I said about the pay phone here just five minutes ago. 2010 is the Government, 2010. ... You know who the government has changed is, don't let me quote you now some folk sayings that speak of the sea and the sea. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So from the sea it was transferred to can be given. He can give, Linic wouldn't give. ... Why did you change that? I'm asking you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11174	Let's not communicate from the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11175	So I ask you the opposite question why you changed it if you all advocated defenders and as we said the defenders got crumbs in that whole story why you changed the Croatian Government to give to the Croatian government can give. That's what made you a problem. If there was any left, from 2010, I could bring it to you later so you see, here they are, there's...... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11176	Please don't, let's not throw it out of the bench. Let's let fellow Matic give an answer. Here you go, fellow queen.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So once again in 2010, you changed and brought any future government into trouble, it can give and it wrote the beautiful sea, or it said it gave. That's what I'll get you, so let's see. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11178	Okay. Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11179	Dear fellow Matic, you were a member of the government or of the late Njavre and later at Mrs Kosor's house. I wish at that time, we agree, and you're right that what's wrong has happened, what brought this people where it is. However, all members of the government should have been much louder then. I am sorry in this replica that too much as a minister who should be the minister of all defences, agreed, disagreed, was in HDZ, in the SDP, MOST, irrelevantly, I recommend that the current ministry not share the defenders what you mentioned in the defense category as not good light. It is much more important today to solve this problem of the fund, to call for the association of defenders as well as the entire people. And especially when we look at today, 10 of our comrades die on average under 50 years. So from the people who were in government or government all the time while this fund was being established, while it was being filled, and while our society was going through these turbulent times, as you say, robbery, I will also say in the robbery of Croatian property that we should invite those most responsible for this Homeland to the community regardless of sitting in the center, on the right or on the left. That is why I invite you not to protect the interests of the defender and in the case of Croatia's insurance. I think we should be much louder and clearer, and our comrades, mine and yours, Mr. Djakic, should be invited to join in and protect national interests and even through this fund, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11180	Thank you. The distinguished representative Predrag Matic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11181	Thank you very much. So, fellow Bull, I don't know, I didn't really understand you very much in this part of it, '98. When I was head of the cabinet of the late Minister of Njavre then the fund was not even there and in 2004 I was advisor to the then Minister of the Adriatica Kosor, only the fund was formed and the advisor advised and did not have much influence, the advice was accepted or not. So once again what could have been done was when Croatia's insurance was privatised. But because of that definition of the sea, we've lost one piece. But here's where the new government's gonna change, and it's gonna make up for it. There's been a lot of privatisation going on. But here and Končar is gone, no defenders have even written, it is finely torn and then it is not seen that Končar is fully privatized and defending 7% or God forbid and more is forgotten. But I say envy, when you say here during the union, so there's no defensive protest, there's no gas bottles, there's no assault on the police, there's no blockade, maybe a entrance to the Concar factory. Now it's gone. But for which month to expect it will be again.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11182	Thank you very much. Now the replica will be given by the distinguished representative of Gordana Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11183	Thank you very much. Mr. Matić, in your exhibit and later on in the replicas you mentioned INA, since it is now very current where you try to do the job until the end but thank God, you see that things are learned and I don't think for the second time MOL will succeed in the way below the table, under the grain take over the INA. In 2008, the Croatian Defence Fund unfortunately participated in the takeover of INA by MOL. If 7% of the INA shares from the Croatian Defence Fund portfolio were not sold at this time, MOL would not have 48% but 41% and Croatia would have not 44% but 51% of the ownership in the Croatian oil industry. And on that side, unfortunately, the policy that took part in this produced that, at a very low price, I will tell you once again, 2800 kuna what the price is and today, when the stock in the past 8 years has lost a lot of value and only a few years after 2010, the share was traded to about 4 thousand kuna, so directly the Croatian Defence Fund lost more than 8 hundred million kuna that it actually sold to MOL for the takeover of the company. And on this side, it is good that you as a minister did not participate in the way that former ministers and former governments participated in the INI and the Croatian Defence Fund, taking advantage of the possibility that those shares which the defenders received were directed towards MOL and ultimately that the MOL benefit from this, not our defenders, or those who earned those shares by their warring.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11184	Thank you. He won't answer. Okay. The distinguished representative Goran Maric is the next replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11185	Thank you very much. My colleague Matic, it is true that it has been changed in law from sea to can but it is interesting to interpret it, to apply that law. I don't think there were any hidden intentions, there were hidden intentions when that law changed, and I think it's a bad thing to change like that. But even now in the Road Safety Act, it says that every driver is obliged to provide assistance to anyone unhappy on the road. If that changes so that it can provide help, in this interpretation of yours, you wouldn't want to provide help unhappy on the road, because it says it can, why do I have to when. You sat in the government when you could decide, you did not want to decide, but you decided against the law because the government was not allowed to decide on this, the sale of Croatian insurance should be decided by law only by the Croatian Parliament and this was determined by the state audit. When it comes to INI, I would not personally sign any document relating to the sale of INE at any time but who designed and paved the road for the loss of INE, your government, because there is no case anywhere in the world that a stockholder with 25% plus 1 share has complete control over the management of that company, such a unique case is missing and the contract was called a strategic investor agreement and in fact it was a concession agreement on management. And when all the management conditions of the INE were concluded, then your minister sent another letter to the government where he writes, so there's little MOL management rights, so let's give him the right and give him the financial director. Which Croatia will be the financial director's position when MOL may know better. Would you like that document and memo? I'll give it to you. I've got it in my office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11186	Thank you. The honourable representative Matic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11187	Thank you very much. Comrade Maric, I agree with your opening act at the beginning of what you said, and here again I must say that in speaking, our people can and must have so many good stories and proverbs, but if you would like to hear it out in public here, you will again say Fred is vulgar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11188	Thank you very much. The next one, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, will be taken by the distinguished representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11189	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy Minister, Mr. Tolic, member of the board of directors of the Croatian Defence Fund. In fact, the HDZ Club is in doubt supporting or not supporting this report, regardless of what the Government of the Republic of Croatia has given a positive opinion on this report. We ourselves, by dividing ourselves as you see on the Committee on War Veterans as a parent committee, were clearly restrained by this report since we believe that it is a set of data that speaks about the state of the fund but however management of the Croatian Defence Fund also requires the responsibility of all the factors particularly the government's representative in this regard, the Minister of Defence at the time. So HDZ will still consider setting aside this 2014 report, which is actually coming too late in view of the financial developments, growth and decline of shares, shareholders and all those decisions that should have been made quickly, quality to be made in the past year and in 2014. What is clearly visible is the situation in 2014 and it is clearly written in the report as well as the obligations and principles and investment strategy of the Croatian Defence Fund. Here it is true that he had 7% of the shares of INE and 7% of the shares of HT as the largest shareholders and the highest values at the given time, when it was formed and when it came into force. I must also point out that nothing has been won by Croatian defenders in the past. I must remind myself of the HDZ of the Croatian Homeland Fund which was also formed at the given moment of the Croatian State. I don't know how it was forgotten and it was a quality fund with good press shares that were later given, sold to Kutli and it was supposed to get replacement shares when the replacement shares were not enabled that fund stopped with its work. This could also happen to our Croatian Defence Fund, which, if there are no new shares in it and nothing has happened since 4 years ago, is also likely to be a descending route, as all the data on this report says will come to the point that there will no longer be enough funds and capital to place one third of the profits for the scholarship and the other for the foundation of Croatian defenders. What I wanted to point out to society is such a character that the Croatian Defence Fund must provide security, liquidity and an appropriate contribution to the risk of investment. The Croatian Defence Fund is in its nature conservative with special emphasis on the security and liquidity of the fund's assets. The company with care should have been able to manage the assets of the same asset in the interest of the owner of the fund. In the event of changes to the legal rules or market conditions, the company will, in the interest of the Croatian Defence Fund, adapt to the investment strategy of the newly created environment. And these principles and strategies are absolutely neglected. In these four years, there was no role of a good economicist and there was no interest of Croatian defenders as the owner of the fund's stake. If it were of interest, then certainly 7% of Croatia's insurance in its sale would be in the Croatian Defence Fund. And we are wondering that 28% at the time Croatia was sold, and it remained owned by the Republic of Croatia, why the government did not single out 7% and give the Croatian Defence Fund. Is Croatia's insurance really sold? And today we wonder if they have, whether the capitalisation did what was necessary in the sales contract and whether the new owners had met the terms of the contract. We can ask the same question for the time when INA 25 plus one gold share was sold. And 7% of the shares sold to MOL could not contribute to any different change in relations or ownership, nor could they reach 51% of ownership. They don't have one today, and I'm gonna keep saying that as long as I'm alive because that's what the papers say. Nothing important has changed. These are only flossules spoken of by individuals who want to clear and load on those and take the burden off themselves, and put it on those who were then on the Management Board of the Fund. It is clear that 7% of the shares of the INA at the time it was sold were used to pay those who came forward, and 48% of the shareholders of Croatian defenders reported that they would sell their shares and, of course, the rest of the money was deposited with the National Bank and with the institutions of the Republic of Croatia, as the law requires, with good insertion which was a good income to the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families. In this past time, 60,000 children of Croatian defenders through the Croatian Defence Fund have achieved their scholarships. Likewise, the treasured purpose was fully used. What we can say is that the data on how to calculate the fund's management costs has also been changed today. Today 2016, i.e. In 2015, the relationship and basis for the calculation of the fee for managing the total value of the Croatian Defence Fund were reduced by the amount of all liabilities of the fund with the basis of the investment. The fee is charged daily and is paid to the Management Society once a month. The management fee of 0.238% per year from the management fee shall be paid to the depositary bank of the Split Bank Fund of 0.045% per year. All management costs of the Fund shall also be paid out of the management fee. Today 2016, i.e. As early as 2015, a new management company was selected for the Croatian Defence Fund and it is a Hypo-invested company that was twice as expensive as the company in 2014 Erste invested or later as the name had already changed. So, in 2015, we already have what's called the question of all the issues, that the management fee from 0238 is increased to 0488% per year, and the amount of 0.045 per cent per year from the management fee now increased to 0.065 per cent. It seems to me that something that is precedent, precedent that no one has reported cheaper in the competition, and that the selected ones who are twice as expensive as the previous drivers, are twice as expensive with double the less effective in achieving the objectives of the fund that I have read and listed. So the objectives of the fund are profit, gain and security of investment through what contributes, not what falls. With all this, we can see that from 2010 onwards, the Croatian Defence Fund has been going one path down and since then 820 million kunas less value than it was then. It is true that 60% of the participants sold their shares, i.e. He took the money and left. 40% of those who exist, because of their children, because of their own schooling, because of the need for a solid social moment, it is necessary to continue thinking and thinking in a positive direction so that as soon as 7% of Croatia's insurance is transferred to the Croatian Defence Fund so that it can achieve both purposes in order to contribute to the interest of paying dividends regulated by and the size of them is regulated by companies such as HT. If he goes into reinvestment to get then there is no dividend and of course that Croatian defenders will be suspended. So I made a reasonable move that at a time when HT was at the highest price it was necessary to sell shares of HT 7% somewhere around 2 billion kunas to register the fund as an investment fund, invest it in, say, building a highway that I was talking about before and being a concessionary for 35 years. Or invest it in the Immunological Institute and be co-owner and at the sale of medicines in achieving the goals also achieve a profit that would fill the budget of the Croatian Defence Fund, achieve dividends and thus help the best Croatian defenders. These are all things that should have concrete people, to accept concrete proposals and to have their hands and governments resolved because the government as a manager certainly gives consent to crucial and important decisions in the fund and thus achieves a common goal. And the goal of all of us is to make the fund work as well as possible, as best as possible and to make it more effective for Croatian defenders. I must say that today, 117 million kuna is deposited dividends on the account of individuals in our agencies of FINA who have not raised and who also prior to the registration of the fund and their way if they were framed with certain interest could also contribute to some kind of aid that would be effective and would be needed by Croatian defenders. All of this when I speak clearly I can say that I am concerned about the state of the fund as well as the HDZ club and that we must all take one step forward together and that we must in this time achieve what it is, and that is the security of the fund's business, otherwise it will end in an infamous manner as the Croatian Homeland Fund has ended. The Croatian Homeland Fund was also the one who made income at certain times until those who were involved in the market for capital and securities in the Croatian market were mobile and took away and the Government of the Republic of Croatia never gave the replacement shares to the Croatian defenders, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Croatian wartime wartime people with disabilities. What I want to emphasize, from the first moment, until... Croatian defenders were then given a number of shares of Croatian positive companies such as INA, such as Podravka, by all those who were wounded on the front. [[You don't understand.]] INA employees first of all preferred and wrote wherever they wanted, in which companies wanted shares. So it does not appear that nothing Croatian defenders have received through the past time, time of privatisation, time of greed, time of all that is already listed here today. Constant concern and concern, especially in the existence and time of President Tudjman, Minister Suška was primarily about the rights of Croatian defenders. At the time, laws on the rights of Croatian defenders were obtained, strict care was carried out and a special attitude towards them who defended the country of Croatia, especially those who were killed. By then, they had already had shares, and they were already shareholders through a fatal relationship that was sustained by the wound or by families killed by the death of their sons. That's what I didn't hear today, that's what worries me about not knowing and not talking about it. The ransom is still in effect, the less people sell shares, and that's good. There are fewer of those interested in offering shares, and there is something said in this paragraph. In accordance with the legal and statute provisions, shares shall be redeemed at the price valid on the 6th day following the date of submission of the application for the sale of the share in the fund and the funds shall be paid within 3 working days if the 60th day falls on a non-working day, weekend or holidays. As a valid price for the sale account, the price of the fund's first working day shall be taken. During 2014, the fund made payments worth 45 million kuna, down from 2013 for 26 million 427 thousand kuna. So it was less paid in 2014 than in 2013. I'm saying it's good. Here, in the end, I can only conclude that the value of the share of 860 kuna in 2011 fell to 553 kuna in 2012 but thus decreased to today when the value of the stake was 138.77 kuna. I think we should work really fast, interveningly. As for taking care of Croatian defenders, I just have to say we will certainly not be demagogues and mock Croatian defenders in the cabinet and say... Thank you very much. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11190	Thank you. We have six replicas. The first is the distinguished representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11191	Dear Representative Djakic, I listened carefully to your presentation and found that the fund meant a reduced value for some 200 million kunas if I heard it and it amounted to about 800 million kuna. Many defenders of course have their eyes against this fund to earn some of that over the years from some of the yields. However, just one short comparison, I am an economist. At the time of the sale of Croatia's insurance at the same time, an insurance company called Basler was sold, bought by the Austrian group Uniqa. Croatia's insurance then had 32% of the market and Basler had only 4%, so 8 times less. Croatia had 1 billion and 800 kuna capital, and Basler had 6 times less. To make a short story short, Croatia's insurance value is underrated in that case. The state was supposed to come up by these criteria in parallel to these two companies, insurance companies about 4 billion kuna. However, it was eventually bought for 148m euros, and was required in these comparative calculations to cost and be sold, the number of shares for 566m euros. So the state budget has been damaged by the conversion into kuna for 3 billion 180 million kuna. And gentlemen, one of the findings, which I did not get into these stories, and of course it's very clear, that out of those 3 billion that were lost only 1 billion if it had come into the possession of the defenders and this fund it would have been a greater amount of funds than this fund has at all. So this is about a difficult transaction that you won't be able to get through. The State Audit Office confirmed it because the parliament did not make a decision on this. And just for five more seconds, I overstepped, I suggest, I like this idea of transforming the fund so it doesn't have to be gambling and casino, that the defenders have to follow them growing, dropping, but investing in some concession in Immunological, where there will be more stable incomes to do that, and I'm willing to help because the defenders didn't sacrifice their lives and wounded to play with them today. And over Croatia, insurance is lost.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11192	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11193	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Lovrinović, I respect your status as top economist, and I didn't know this information exactly, so now I've credited it. And it is true that under suspicious circumstances Croatia's privatisation of insurance was made as well as the privatisation of INA. These are two Croatian gold sold in a very strange way. The bickering of who's guilty, who's not guilty, who's more involved, who's less but math as an exact science clearly talked about what was then on the capital market, what's this other insurance company that has significantly less than eight times as you said less markets and values, what price did it achieve? And I'm interested in how that the institutions of state authorities such as the State's Attorney's Office, PNUSKOK, may not be professional, perhaps you should choose economists who would enter the profession to investigate what happened. And I am particularly concerned and interested because I have not seen or heard whether the capitalisation was carried out entirely means Croatia's insurance, whether all those contractually promised standards are met and where the top is seen. Since we are witnessing to shut down businesses, to centralize the administration, to reduce the value and the underlying capital of Croatia's insurance, about their properties and values that we do not talk about how they are evaluated. I think there's one of the biggest muds that happened in Croatian privatisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11194	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Predrag Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11195	Comrade Djakic, in your report, I agree with the greatest part of what you have stated. Your concern of course exists from the old days until today. However, when you talk about accepting or not accepting this 2014 report, I would like to say that I don't care if you accept it or not, but for the public's sake, you should say that all these reports have been copies of reports that only numbers change depending on the value of the T Com stock. Of course, all those previous years the report was perfect, now during this government it will be the last piece of junk and then again in 2016 the 2016 report in which nothing, absolutely nothing will change compared to the former will be good and you will take advantage of that definition used by the protesters we have titrated for four years, we didn't know what we would do for them. But then at one point they noticed the good will of this government and then they all got together and the tents and the protest ended and of course nothing would change. And you mentioned something about demagogy in the end, so let's just say, let's say you're in power here now, you have a chance if you can buy the elections soon, I won't say that you've done it before, you know that, you can buy the favor of Croatian defenders. Right now it is still in effect that definition can be given, so you give 7% of the shares of Croatia insurance to Croatian defenders, give them 7% of Končar and humiliate this international government that has been scrambling Croatian defenders for four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11196	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11197	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, of course we'll insist and we'll do it without changing the law. There was no good will for you to work, no respect, no cooperation, but you worked to humiliate and disdain Croatian defenders by calling them all kinds of ugly names. I don't just know how this board of directors put up with you. Like he didn't turn his back on you. But people wanted to do something good for Croatian defenders, so they cooperated. They cooperated, as I see from the report, and it is clear that they insisted that the new package of shares be included in both the Croatian Insurance Fund and the HAC ONC which was not made, and of everything that would be in the privatisation. However, you have always drawn on that word can or must, can or must. When the seas then have to be for all shares both valuable and worthless, and when it can be about quality shares and you didn't want to say a word about it. And you know for yourself how you interacted with Croatian defenders and myself personally and with Vukic and with a number of others calling them that it doesn't matter what they say but who says, black shirts to their friends, it's your relationship that culminated in the protest. Not to list your colleagues, Stazic and others, I can only say that Vidovic was always correct, everyone else had terrible insults against Croatian defenders, misunderstandings. And your office footage showed all your cynicism.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11198	The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11199	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The fact that we're talking, colleague Djakic, and go back to history during Tudjman and Šushka when you... But the same is true in these recent years in privatisation, unfortunately, what the defenders have accomplished is led by Dr. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Tudjman and Defence Minister Gojko Šushko were sold to the Jews. We can start with telecommunications, what our generations created, our parents paid for, and you who are older, unfortunately mock without a grain of gunpowder with one signature by foreign teleopers, must not have fought for it. Also, INA with 25+1 share of management rights was acquired during the SDP coalition at the head, they received management rights with 25%+1 which is not remembered in history. Of course later, Prime Minister Sanader finished while involved, transferred, located, and what was done. So it doesn't matter here at all, it doesn't matter, it's only about the country. Here are the important defenders who gave their lives into free Croatia to sell out what was not to be sold out. I repeat again with foreign officials, by foreign countries for Judah's locusts. Sometimes in Belgrade, caves, Vienna, London, it doesn't matter. It is the greatest pain not only of this fund but also of the Croatian defenders I repeat today, our comrades die 10 on average. On average, 50 years old. Political elites are both guilty and responsible for this situation, none of the Croatian defenders who can, there are differences, can protest or not protest, they are our comrades. That is why we need to preserve this fund and perhaps invest in Immunological and some national interests to protect what we have. It should, of course, be professionally analysed, but the most important thing here is the protection of national interests and there is no policy as it has been led so far that political elites have destroyed what Croatian defenders have created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11200	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11201	Thank you very much. Comrade Bulj, yes, various policies, various relationships, various frauds and possibilities of fraud. But the attitude towards Croatian defenders, I made it clear what he was like back then at the beginning of the Homeland War until 2000. Already in those recent years, the disease of President Tudjman has also taken place certain things that were not also favored by Croatian defenders. We've written many times from HVIDRA's Republic and asked for replacement shares for... Stocks, we never got them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We've started the proceedings. They're not finished today either. In public notebooks, documents in the floods in the centre of Zagreb have disappeared where there has never been a flood. And so, there's a lot going on here, I'm a witness to a lot of these things but days first of all, I want them not to be calling anyone but to be the same archaic in measuring actions and not doing things. To make the law equal for everyone. That some can't be untouchable statues and gods while others are declared and called the ugliest words. Croatian defenders deserve to be participated in the property of Croatian society, which is indeed for years to be responsible and to react at the right time. Responsibilities, non-responsibility is also a sin as you know but the legal obstacle for managers if the Government of the Republic of Croatia which approves and the Governing Board confirms them then the Government who appointed the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Defence Fund is also responsible for not doing what is not timely whether or not she sold the shares of HT and invested them, registered the fund or today when we have re-privitation and did not experience 7% of Croatia's shares or some other companies that are positive and which have a positive business, which have their own price on the market so that Croatian defenders have stability, so that the fund is prosperous and that the fund will be the one to achieve the benefit of Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11202	Next replica, the esteemed representative Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11203	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Djakic, I agree greatly with that debate of yours, and I think it went in the right direction at least to be as an incentive for future work and that one "can" or "must", is imperative for some future time if you already claim that there have been some major disputes. Why am I answering for a replica? You said at one point in your presentation that members of the Croatian Defence Fund did not pay attention to a good master. I had the honour of being a member of this fund very short time behind Zeljko Saba and I had the opportunity to see both the materials and the relationship of the board members who were really doing their best to make under the given conditions and the days of the conditions were very and very awkward. You also know that there was a reduction in assets, you know that there was a drop in shares, and that property was reduced almost 20% at 2014 level compared to 2013 and that it was not easy to do, that there was thought and what with those 10 million kunas needed in order to calm this one and those newly arrived defenders who achieved the rights, and that's why I came to say that there was also our colleague, Tolic and Borkovic and Arbanas and Klen, and that they were all at the end of the line in this fund, which again proves that they were doing well I repeat in the given conditions so that there were no such formulations that they did not work with the good master's attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11204	Replica response, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11205	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Ronko, I know you've replaced Mr. Saba on the trust board, but I don't blame the members. However, the government takes the final decision on capital decisions. A representative of the government of defence ministers, Croatian defenders can support the proposal if it is good or not. But here, the initiative that was left in 2010, which remained there with the discussion of the trust's board, clearly states that it was not done further because this initiative and this proposal to sell HT shares for two billion kuna, to register the fund, it was the beginning of the negotiations, all left, finished material, was only to be implemented, to make a decision at the government, the minister as the chairman of the administration, the board of funds to present to the members, to tell what we will invest in, whether in the immune or in the highway, one part that was not built, was 35 years concessionaires, 35 years in the fund to come back and return that money, to be processed. These are the things I wanted to say. There was no positive shift except for the one at the end when... it was supposed to be privatized and then three percent were announced to go to the fund. It wasn't done either. That's what I'm talking about, so either he has initiatives or he doesn't. In the work and management of shares and shares, trade, stock market, so it should act quickly, it should work when you have the highest price and you need to know what two steps, three or five will be in advance, follow the world's movements on the market, see what it is, if it's sowing with HT and if it's not planned to increase the value of its shares further due to the mass of operators that have appeared on the Croatian market, then let's sell, let's invest in something else. That's what I was gonna say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11206	Thank you. Next replica, the esteemed representative of Stevo Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11207	Vice President, Croats and Croats. My friend Djakic, I'm really surprised to you after all these years that you're trying to show things to the way they are and that someone keeps understanding. How do you realize that their minister who was a good servant of the bad lords is fighting for the interests of the defenders? Who, in his term, allowed himself to forget who he was, what he was from, on the wings of what came to the ministerial chair he used to deal with those who brought him there. When he says he doesn't care whether we accept it or not, his attitude is clear to me. Why? Because he really didn't care what happened to the Croatian defender was happening in the term of office of the government in which he was a member. The man who forgets the ones he fought if he fought, if it wasn't as fake as some book that was written, nothing fake, and there's a lot of nebulos and I've read a lot of them, who dared to betray his friends, don't go out when his comrades are just burning themselves, when his offices are dying at the door of his most courageous members of the Croatian army by whose name is now and called the square where he sat, Nevenka Topalusic. When the 100% disabled were in that tent, the tentkeepers called them as he did with his associates who watched through his windows whether under the climate or the heat, how they rain, how they freeze down, how they overheat, nothing false, everything is a lie.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11208	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Dragica Zgrebec, a distinguished representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11209	Mr. Vice President. The MP injured Article 238a(5) by demeaning and insulting other MPs. In his replica, he replicates his colleague Djakići rather than insults his colleague Fred Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11210	Okay. The next replica, i.e. the reply to the replica, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11211	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, my colleague Culej, regardless of this intervention that was towards you to be reminded, I think that yet your emotional performance with all the factors which and the indicators that marked that time, that time when there was really no understanding of Croatian defenders, when there was no dialogue, when there was no real dialogue, when the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences was being prepared in secret, when certain attacks on the very rights of Croatian defenders took place, when he was devastated in the next period and put into the Law on Pensions Law on Social Care when the law we had as a sacred letter for Croatian defenders became the subject of separation of pensions. This came after that, all the knowledge we had of what would be in the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers. You are right, all insults if you put together one book of ministers and his fellow officials, ministers as well as parliamentary representatives in this House would be a book of relations, the most hateful relationship towards Croatian defenders of the Kukuriku coalition. We'll probably do that someday, so here's what I'm calling all the authors who haven't done it so far, to put together all those insults from... black legions, black shirts, gas bottles and everything that's been put on those defenders. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Especially let that video be for the end of the goodbye of the Busman, the Hi Busman.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11212	Next replica, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11213	Thank you very much. Dear Djakic, the biggest problem is that we in this House do not respect the laws we have passed here. Thus, in 19.3.2002, the INA Privatisation Act was passed, which has not changed so far. It is also referred to in Article 4(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 7% of shares belong to Croatian defenders. In paragraph 2. 7% belongs to current and former INA employees, in fact they will be given, these without a fee 25% plus one share to the strategic partner, the investor. 15% of citizens, institutional investors on the stock market. The remainder of whether or not to replace it, however, what is most important to date has not been changed. At the time of Croatia's entry into the EU, Croatia should have 25% of the INA, which was brought by the coalition at the time, with opposition from HDZ, to be sold under a special law that will be passed in the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Democratic Union has not sold any shares to MOL. So on the IPO in 2007, slightly less than 17% of shares were sold to citizens of the Republic of Croatia to institutional investors. A little over 6% were bought by INA employees. The Croatian Democratic Union has not sold any shares to MOL. The only ones who sold shares to MOL is the SDP coalition in 2003, and that's that. But also in the social contract at the time, it said that no decision over 80 million kunas can be made by the Supervisory Board and the Management Board without the consent of the Hungarian member, with the Hungarian member being granted a priori under the social contract of the financial manager and the procurement manager. So who's got the financials and the purchases at a company that practically runs with her.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11214	Replica response, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11215	Mr. Vice President, my colleague Shuker, yes, you know best, and I believe that because I took that contract because I was also an INA employee, so I was interested in what was going on with the INA. And today I'm interested in what the conditions are, how who manages, which is why he manages, who lets him and what it says in a social contract like you said, it's good to know. It's good to know that by heart to talk about INA, to think of spilling praises to one another, and to try others, to call someone a thief without judgment, it's not good either. Calling the defenders that they sold 7% of the stake and saying that they made it possible to manage MOL is an absolute lie, a lie that doesn't hold water, or hold it before, not now. 42%, even now that it's up to 48%, the way it's come still doesn't have 51%, and it doesn't have absolute property. But the fact that 25 plus the gold share, I'd like one time to be just a debate about that gold share and that gold coke that laid down that gold share and that it was used in the future. How was it managed, how was it invested? It was equally invested as Croatia's insurance was invested and capitalised. It's all smoke and eye-stuttering and yelling keep the thief, and the thief is home. Keep the thief, and the thief's not gonna make it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11216	Thank you. The next debate is on behalf of the BM 365 Club, a respected representative of Miodrag Demo.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11217	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, MPs, Mr. Assistant Minister and Mr. Tolic. I apologize for not being exposed sooner, but here I am in time and indeed this topic is especially important for the population of Croatian defenders, so the people who created this country. Listening to one part of the exhibition on both left and right and all governments so far who are mostly everything is being re-earned on Croatian defenders. As for the report of the Croatian Defence Fund for 2014 that the fund goes down to less than 800 million kuna, it is inadmissible, someone made a mistake. And finally, looking at all these collections, these figures, these letters are needed today by every Croatian defender, and we so easily accept all the reports that come into this Croatian State Assembly, we are actually eyeing the Croatian defenders, because we have done nothing to enlarge this Fund. Good colleagues said Suker and Djakic and everyone else who said they would not have problems with INA today, that 7% of the shares belonging to Croatian defenders and members of their families were strategically defended. Today we would be ahead of the Hungarians, they would be in the minority, and we would be in the majority. All governments so far are forming a Croatian Defence Fund which is positive, which is good, which is fine and care and care for all possible elements that are to help Croatian defenders through foundations, through scholarships, etc. However, as long as the policy is appointed by the fund's boards of directors, until the government and experts and economists, as Mr Lovrinovic says, are leading the story of the Croatian Defence Fund Fund, Croatian defenders will continue to sink and it is about to be shut down. However, another fact. Who is in the interest of Croatian defenders not being a systematic part of this society? If we could defend the Republic of Croatia and die for it believe me to defend everything that is positive, all that is good and all that would make this Croatian state better. The fact is that all governments were afraid that Croatian defenders did not have a strong fund. Why? Where did that law, which was addressed in the procedure 7% of the 7 strategic companies' shares, disappear in the event of privatisation into the Croatian Defence Fund? You know what we'd be then? ... over the finances. [[You don't understand.]] And that's exactly what all the governments that have so far managed to privatize were afraid of. As a human, Croatian defenders, this was a terrible pain when, instead of 850 million or billions of kunas in plus, he's down. Gentlemen, who will take responsibility for this? I'm asking you here who will be responsible for what has been committed to a practical crime against the Croatian Defence Fund? What are these administrations, what are these members, what are these supervisory committees? How was that managed? That's why we in front of our club will be looking for a maximum investigation into the management of the Croatian Defence Fund. Why am I saying that? It is every kuna that owns Croatian defenders in the Croatian Defence Fund. So far we have so many problems, we could solve housing and child education and various treatment of Croatian defenders from this fund. We could've done a lot of things right now so I wouldn't count and waste my time. But gentlemen, as long as they manage policies with the fund, as long as the experts do not manage the fund, and among the Croatian defenders there are a lot of economists and lawyers, I will personally advocate and fight to name them, they are now appointed to the board of directors, but I will ask for an amendment to name people professionals who will work in the interest of the fund, in the interest of the processing of the fund, in the interest of the Croatian defender of ordinary man who has no information about what is going on in the Croatian Defence Fund. And he should have it first. In such a way, we can only save that fund to be a part of it, all together and to know what further plans and privatisations of strategic firms or companies in the Republic of Croatia are to participate in this as much as possible. Therefore, I repeat once again from his draft request that a thorough investigation of how he was managed and who managed him and who made decisions. Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11218	Thank you. We have four replicas. The first is Honourable representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11219	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Demo, yes, the report is clearly visible so every year 200 and some million kunas are falling. The value of the stock and the year 2014 for which this report amounted to 150.52 kunas of HT shares which are the most important and which account for 92 or 98% of the value of the fund. Today's stock value is such that, 138.77 or a maximum of 147.5.6. This is where the values of today's HT stock move. That's twice as much as when we proposed certain measures that should have been taken. Selling by 280 kuna shares then or by 300, which was possible at the start of the new term of the new minister but failing to reach the government, dealing with defenders, thinking that is not in the spirit of shareholders and in the spirit of the value of capital that should be monitored and listened to the fund of managers that is proposed by the Government should also be adopted by the chairman of the board of directors to present it to the board of directors and thus make concrete decisions. In that bush lies the rabbit, in that bush we lost half the value of the fund only on HT shares until today. Will it grow? That's not what the wizards explained to me, and that's not even the trust fund managers. It is difficult for HT to grow unless it invests considerable resources in the infrastructure that is necessarily needed in the light lines and cables to be made, with all that and then there will be no dividends because dividends will be invested in new networks. And that's the danger of everything being lost by inaction.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11220	The second replica is the esteemed representative Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11221	Dear Representative Demo, I listened to you about the shares and the sale of shares of Croatian defenders. I personally think that we're constantly doing something that's already gone, that the stocks have sold, that they've sold, that we're not just thinking, we can't bring it back, we can't put it back into defense portfolios and we're not thinking about what's now being sold, what's happening now. I think we should think already today, tomorrow, here's part of the Concar, LNG terminal, oil fields that are already on some concessions of the day, we don't know anything here in the Parliament. I think we should have economic analysts here and... the experts we already have that have already sat down with our government, discussed whether it's good, whether it's not good. It's not being discussed here, it's not being discussed in the House before we sell whether it's good or not. We're going back to whether it was good or not. I don't think that trip to Croatia is right. No one can sell Croatian property, so we can discuss it later and ask if the contracts are good or not good. It is a question of the progress of the Croatian state and what we have sold can be freely forgotten and we must go ahead and see how we will sell further and whether we will sell and whether it is worth the sale and whether our interests of citizens have of this sale and our defenders certainly. I understand whether those stocks were good or not, and that's what the experts were supposed to do with the defenders and say don't do it, it's not good for the state and it's not good for you either. But here we go back, discussing what's already been done. Let's turn around in advance and see what's going on today. I believe that both this government and these three didn't deserve to sit in the government after all this has happened and that we have to go a new way and put in experts who know and we should know what's going to be sold and we should discuss it in the Parliament whether we're going to sell it or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11222	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Miodrag Demo.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11223	Thanks, buddy. I agree with you absolutely. However, as long as it is not the responsibility of someone who has done damage, who has practically committed crime and until he is responsible, we will never go forward in public and court. And I'm ready for that precisely, so I ask where the law is the one under which the carpet lies, he... did Jadranka Kosor, former defence minister, put it under the rug that any strategic company in the Republic of Croatia will be on the market to participate 7% of the sale to be left to the Croatian Defence Fund. But again I repeat, they won't, believe me no government will let me, because Croatian, this Croatian Defence Fund would then be strengthened, we would practically control it a lot, and it doesn't suit them, I won't be able to go like that. And believe me, I agree with you that tomorrow any company in the Republic of Croatia must come to these benches and discuss it. Because it is a responsibility to the Croatian people and that is so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11224	Thank you. The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11225	Thank you very much. Comrade Demo, you said no one is responsible, today when we have 300 thousand unemployed, 300 billion kuna debt, 300, so 300 is everything. Who's responsible for INA-U, MOL? Who bears the responsibility of the example of the planes on a normal flight, the fighter planes went to Ukraine and returned to the cariola? Who handles telecommunications, who handles agriculture, for the EU funds of 2 billion kunas that went to the one they didn't need? Who's responsible for everything that's been done? Who's responsible for all the audits that went through here? Who is responsible for what the highway is three times more expensive per km than it was supposed to be where a kilo of desire for Croatia is not invested, when the Split iron mill collapsed? No one. The Croatian defenders, you and the others, are also sitting here, colleagues here from the fund and deputy minister with honor freed the country and handed it over to politicians and political elites. And these defenders as they were being persecuted, while the secret documents from the president's office were sending and the other institutions were all happening at that time. No one's responsible. So we've been listening here to a colleague here review how much corruption there is in public procurement alone, how much competition and good companies are affected by the guessing? It is not the Croatian defender's fault, the man who now dies on average for 50 years. This is what political elites are guilty of, and they must be responsible for high treason. This is high treason, because this government was welcomed by 300 thousand unemployed, 300 billion debt and companies that are below 10%, 15 ownership of the Republic of Croatia. All governments did not protect the national interests for which the Croatian soldier fought and fought, and the only value we have is the foundation of the country's Homeland War and the truth about the Croatian soldier. Everything else has been destroyed by political elites. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11226	The next replica is the esteemed representative Predrag Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11227	My colleague Demo agrees entirely except for a few sentences with your presentation, so there's no loss of 800 million kuna. I would like to remind you that today we are talking about the 2014 report but for the entire period of my term of office or past government means from the end of 2011 to the beginning of 2016 the value of T-com shares fell from 250 kuna to the current 140, and this is unfortunately a loss of some nearly 300 million kuna if this is a loss. Everything else is shares, shares raised by Croatian defenders. And I repeat, in the last few years, it's stopped, half the defenders are about to raise their stakes and further these other defenders are no longer raising their stakes. And I still can't resist it, but one sentence when the vice president of the Parliament hasn't responded. So the outpourings of some kind of personal hatred, impatience and antagonism toward individuals, unfortunately speak more of the pure and unclean conscience of one who speaks of it than of whom he speaks. Here it's advertised, and my book and I recommend to the gentleman that he write a book about his war route. Although his beginning will not be very bright, but here I recommend that he start from later. If he needs some advice, I'm here, I'd love to.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11228	Thank you. That's what we've done with the replicas. Individual debate, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11229	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, here is the deputy and board member of the fund, co-workers and colleagues. Everything is said almost in these discussions, but the necessity is to repeat that the stability and flexibility of this fund is indeed the one that concerns all of us, who personally who will not vote for this report, given that not everything is written in it and is not all more detailed about us as parliamentary representatives. And I'm going to look back at what's said to have had the opportunity and the proposal that I personally represented to take advantage of the possibility that... Fund and be an investment fund, to invest in either the Immunological or the Vrbovec-Belovar-Virovica highway, to be a 35-year-old concessionaire. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why 2014 ends the way it ends. This is why 2015 begins with the cancellation of the Erste-Invest contract. As a result, annual declines in the value of the 200 million kuna fund occur. That's why this is happening. And I just want to point out and say that Erste-invest gives up management and consensually terminates the contract with the Croatian Defence Fund because it cannot be as a responsible person the idea of how to manage and how to contribute to the fund. Because the chairman of the Fund Management Board and the Government of the Republic of Croatia do not support such management. Afterwards, a company that doubles the billing of its management, Hypo Invest, or as it is already called, and the fee is double the cost of the bank. Here are the manners, now I have to investigate because I didn't come up with data on the Internet when a competition was launched for a new management company, who came forward, what were the offers, who was the cheapest and what did this price come up with with Hypo Invest, which is twice the price of the manager so far. So what's positive and most colleagues agreed with me that we had a good proposal, especially experts who are for the economy that monitor the stock market, who monitor the movement of stocks and securities, who know something about it and respected professors and doctors of science and all of you who know a lot more than I do. I believe you know that and what a gold stock is and who always keeps the gold share. What does the gold share in one control system mean, and who has it? I personally think that what was presented at the time, when INA 25+1 sold gold that it was actually mixed up. I can't figure it out, but he's hoping there'll be enough of those to explain to me today what the gold stock is and what it's accomplishing. What's that gold chick INA snowed? How much were those 25+1 shares paid in the sale of INA, was that INA sales or concessions? It's a question of all the questions we haven't discussed today. 25+1 gold, paid with money, gold, what and whom? I believe that one who doesn't understand why 7% of the INA shares in the defense fund were sold clearly must say that the first clue was negative. As it comes to the issue of brokers, with those who know how to manage, when they say now is the right time, now the greatest value of shares and on INA's capital market, now do it because after that will never be such a price again. And if it happened. 48% of the defenders who applied for the sale of their shares or what they call redemption have calmed down. At the time, in the vault records, deposits were placed on funds that experienced 28% interest rates. It was a quality bet, it was a quality fund management, it was a contribution at that time which was a hearty aid to both the Foundation and the Fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders, yes. The humanitarian purpose of this fund is first of all, it speaks clearly about how the profit is divided into the fund and one third to which it belongs. In accordance with the decision of the Governing Board of the Croatian Defence Fund as well as the consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Fund allocated two-thirds of the 2013 profits, totalling €74 million out of the total allocated amount of €37 million 421 thousand was allocated in dividends to the fund owners. 32 million 421 thousand kunas have been paid to a fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders of the Homeland War. A 5 million kuna foundation of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families and the social component that is threatened. During 2014, the fund recorded 309 million kunas in the account of profits and losses. Reduced shares of those issuers. This financial statement was characterised by a long-term and significant decrease in value and was negatively re-valorised, demonstrated through profit and loss accounts. The price of HT shares as I said on 31 December 2014 was 150.52 while the purchase price of these shares was 216.80 kuna. In this we clearly say what it is today, how much this stock is worth today, you heard. Today its price is even lower or today's price is 138.77 kuna. The largest one is 147 in calculations. So, there is no trend of growth, there is no crossing over those 150 and afraid that the Fund is really in a difficult state to reduce the value of scholarships that are secured, that scholarships are late, that they pay off socially endangered defenders late, that there has been no effect in 2014 and 2015, that it has not been managed by those causes prescribed by the law and the status of the fund and the fact that we cannot escape from. But we can't even tell what it is, it's there. We need to have a way to save this fund, how to restore its business, how to introduce new high-quality shares into it and how to set up a management that will be responsible, which will contribute, fertilise these values and be good caring funds for Croatian defenders. I believe that it can't be done by increasing the price of the manager, the management company, the double price will certainly not be achieved, I don't know who went to hand and why, but we'll figure it out by the 2015 report, so we'll know. We'll know how we did it, we'll know how it was paid and if it was the best offer. Which doesn't mean that it's the best offer and the most ideal, that it's the best company of HIPO INVEST, I don't know, it's got all kinds of speculation going on around it, there's all kinds of speculation about the HIPO bank and those who ran the HIPO bank in the past tense. I don't know if it's like that today, I hope not. I hope it's not even this double price, kind of some manipulative speculation and an extraordinary get just for someone. I wonder if it is really possible that those who are twice as expensive to manage the Croatian Defence Fund are chosen and at the expense of the defenders themselves. This is a question of all the questions I wanted to ask myself and you in this individual debate, and therefore I will not be for this report as a human, as a defender, and as the one who suggested usefully how to market and invest in the assets of the fund how to have a long-term inflow from what is called a concession on the highway or on the immune or concession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11230	Thank you. We've got plenty of replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Blaženko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11231	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Djakic. First of all, let me get this straight. All the time since this morning is the difference between the term can and the sea. It can be a complete term as well as the sea for those who want to, love and appreciate Croatian defenders. There's no difference in that term. Once again, those who want, love and want to help Croatian defenders. But those who won't, they need this House to adjust the sea term because Croatian defenders have really given something for this country and someone has to commit if they don't want to or don't appreciate Croatian defenders so under the circumstances they are and we heard through the debate and Croatia insurance that this High House does not know about it and a series of other activities that took place in the past period. But just for a little while, look forward. I think that the Croatian Defence Fund really needs to think and think about the shares of profitable companies that are on the market and the capitalisation of family or defence OPGs, so that we don't happen to help defenders who have their own OPGs and that through shares, working with them, capitalising, expanding them, it doesn't happen that some government, it occurs to her by heart that 10 thousand ha in Slavonia, sells to who knows who or who knows where or plans to sell. Therefore, in this segment, we must also take care of defenders who want to move independently either OPG or any other kind in urban areas, to help them to capitalise and thus to return to the Croatian Defence Fund again through further consideration and business or the OPGs or some other small businesses owned by Croatian defenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11232	Replica response, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11233	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, buddy, you've reminded me well, and you've well defined what it means to or to the sea. And if it had to be in the law of the sea again the minister of the current which was in 2014 could not do anything. Let's remember this pay phone, and now you've reminded me of those screaming statements by the then Minister of Finance Linic, who said I won't give them shares, I won't give them anything. These were the words that were shaking from this pay phone when the name of Croatian defenders was used and 7% needed for the Croatian Defence Fund. Yes, well you said, there was no political will, there was no desire or desire. Such highly oscillating screaming tones addressed Croatian defenders and the entire Croatian public, and of course the minister could not do anything at the time. That's when finance was run by the one who said he wouldn't give us anything and there wasn't any help. I believe it won't be like that today. This can and the sea, clearly shows the attitude towards this population, the attitude towards these people, the attitude towards their merits as honorable defence and liberation participants of the Republic of Croatia, as honored victims. And I must remind myself that from the beginning to the end, the Croatian state is through its institutions, whether there was a ministry or there was concern at the Ministry of Defence who cared and gave Croatian defenders the opportunity and that one-time assistance to be employed by the establishment of cooperatives, the establishment of the OPG, by giving priority to the lease of land which is no longer available today and in various ways. A lot has been lifted, a lot of them have come to work, but a lot of them are out of work today. And I can point out 37,000 defenders are at the Employment Service. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11234	The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11235	Well, here's Mr Djakic, I, on this subject, means the report on the operation of the Croatian Defence Fund is quite clear from that report that it should, I would suggest redefine it, meaning its objectives and way of doing business. We've heard some concrete suggestions here. I repeat, first of all, if certain parts of state property are sold, then those who need to get it first of all on behalf of the state in a certain percentage are Croatian defenders. However, it is not good to leave it to the hirseraries of the market, and the stock is the most risky investment instrument it is known on the financial market. That is why these alternative forms of investment are needed from concessions, the OPG, so this is where the Fund manager and the new business philosophy of the defence, the Croatian Defence Fund, should be created. Here again I cannot repeat this fact that by privatising Croatia's insurance the Croatian state, the budget lost 3 billion and 400 million kuna, I repeat 3 billion and 400 million kuna. Imagine it's only 500 million or a billion if they got defenders, which would have been the case. But last time I didn't get to tell you how this story ended. That's probably why former Minister Linic had to leave, but it's obviously not enough. After the sale, Croatia regularly had a table, 120 million each year. After the sale of the new owner showed a loss of 140 million kuna, 900 people were fired for 2014.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11236	Replica response, MP Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11237	Thank you very much. Well, we heard again how much insurance Croatia had in its business, in its positive business. 120 million kuna gains that turn into losses in one year. And this in the fund is a virtual world. Stocks are virtuality. You have them today, you have value, you don't have them tomorrow. There's been a disturbance, but as far as I can tell from the experts they're tracking, they're being reacted to in time or in time. It's just how much you like it. Investments must also be the one that will be sure not to be lost. It can be lost like this when you do not follow trends, when you do not follow the market, when 6 operators swim in Croatia. Of course HT won't have that kind of income because a certain portion will disperse on them. Does he still have primate? It's probably because of what some colleagues are talking about. Concession over infrastructure is a very important thing in the very... HT. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We believe that everything that has happened in Croatia will be subject to a broader debate, will be the subject of the report and the State's Attorney's Office when it is here before us. We're going to ask and we're going to ask how this could have happened, how the real estate was defined, how the price achieved, since the price on the market was completely different. There's a lot that isn't numbered here, but what's most interesting, important, is that some colleagues think about putting a burden on only one side and that only one of them is responsible for what the fund does with reduced profits, which operates in negatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11238	Next replica, distinguished representative Predrag Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11239	Dear colleague Djakic, what I have repeated many times, and I will do it one more time, so you really are the master of some cheap manipulation and the spread of panic. When you spoke earlier, you also confused Professor of Economy Professor Lovrinovic, let alone the defenders with your numbers and your numbers. So let's simplify for Croatian defenders and for those who don't understand. Erste banka, or part of it that deals with fund management, has announced to us in time and honestly that it is leaving the Republic of Croatia and thus will no longer be able to manage the Croatian Defence Fund. We've made a transparent call for a tender and this same competition has been reported whether or not Hypo. However, what should be said again at your manipulation, so the fund manager also has a bank that takes care of our accounts and now simplified not to go into detail and in some fifth decimal so Erste charged 0.2 for the management of the fund and 0.2% for the bank that ran the accounts, and now Hypo did it with 0.4. Plus I still need to add, and here is the witness Mr. Tolic, who is a member of the board of directors, Hypo has committed that a good and significant part of the funds will directly be paid into the Croatian Defence Fund and that way we will grant several dozen children of Croatian defenders in education. So in conclusion, there's no room for panic, no room for hopelessness. The fund's working, the fund's doing business. And we all agree with this part that of course we should continue to fill it with quality shares. One more sentence, what Mr. Boban said, so that war with logic again. So, what you were changing was the fine one, you who took care of the defenders, the Croatian government gives 7% and you changed into the Croatian government can give. So what were you changing? It's an effort, it's a change of law, this, that. You shouldn't have done that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11240	Replica response, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11241	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, let's see who's demagogue now. I read the documents that were given to the Croatian Parliament and each representative individually, each received a report for both 2014 and 2015. In the 2014 report, the management fee is 0.238% a year from the payment management fee, the fund bank's operating fees, Split Bank, Split and that number, that and that home number. In the amount of 0.045% a year from the management fee, all costs of management of the fund are also settled. That was 2014. Listen now for 2015, the management fee is 0.488% a year. So 0.238 and now it's 0.488 from the steering fee. And the fee is, now it's 0.45% and now it's 0.65%. So what are you talking about? Look, these are the documents that you signed. I think if there's a bigger demagogue than you, I really haven't met. When faced with concrete documents, you still talk about me being a demagogue, and I'm just reading from one report and another. You didn't put anywhere to cut this bank fee. Here, she's even increased. So, you cheated on the board of directors, you cheated on the Croatian defenders, you cheated on this House, and today you still want to cheat on him in your debate. How can you not be ashamed?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11242	The next replica, the esteemed representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11243	Thank you very much. Your colleague Djakic wondered what the gold stock was? So the gold share as an economic category has never been so misused in its terminology in terms of expression, importance and application as in the case of the sale of shares to INA MOL. This could be a school example of a gold share prank that could be in the history textbook. Because the gold share is not given the right to decide, the gold share retains the right to decide, the gold share gives the veto to decide, the gold share is not sold, the gold share is retained. The holder of the gold stock is not a buyer, the holder of the gold stock is a seller. When one who sells even 75% of the stakes retains 25% plus 1 share in order to veto the majority owner to decide on key things in the company. This is what every freshman at the Faculty of Economics knows, but ministers in the Government of the Republic of Croatia don't know that. And it turns out you'd more... Mrs. Zgrebec, you didn't usually throw away. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And it turns out that in companies around the world, the owner of a 25% plus 1 share has significantly higher management rights in that company than the Republic of Croatia with 44% in INA. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11244	Replica response, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11245	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Maric, yes, I've made it clear before, but I've asked you to confirm that to me as an expert, as a professor of economics, to confirm to me what always causes me to doubt. So why is that? When there's no such thing as a social contract, there's no such thing as any kind of contract? How did this happen to serve such a prank upside down? To show both the Croatian people and the representatives that there must be 25 plus 1 gold shares to the purchaser or acquirer of the right rather than 25 plus the gold share of the seller in order to have control, to have the ability to manage, to have the ability to control the investment of the person who is bound through the contract. That's missing. And many times I think about it, so why don't all Croatian institutions talk about it? Why don't economists study this phenomenon of pranks that happened? The prank took place in Croatia as well. As we hear from fellow Lovrinovic, it happened just as much as with INA. But no, probably in the next term, again this party and HDZ with coalition partners will be responsible for selling Croatia's insurance and ownership over it to those who, in my opinion, have well capitalised, who only in a year caused losses that did not rule what was written, which is to be good masters, to earn, who fired 900 people along with some severances, which I am sure that the profits they made in Istria earned on Croatian hard and worker by producing tobacco in our Podravina. And the profits went there and they bought Croatia's insurance and they didn't capitalize it until the end. I don't know how the state institutions don't see it, how this State's Attorney's Office, this BUSKOK, PNUSKOK and all those institutions are silent about it. They'll probably say again that it was you who sold it, me or my colleagues from HDZ. Did we not capitalize on Croatia's security?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11246	The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11247	Thank you very much. Comrade Djakic, here's what Mr. Maric said about the gold stock, so with 25+1 we gave the gold share the management rights of the foreign company in this case to MOL. When we talk about Croatian defenders who fought for the sovereign state, unfortunately the political elites, as I said before, handed this sovereignty into other people's hands by mixing with European mechanics. So that's how we can look at the Podravka today. The sub-area which produces branded products on the market, re-promaterials, agricultural products also imports from Hungary. While all fields of Slavonska, karska fields of Sinjsko, Vrgoračka, Imotsko which have water, rivers lie abandoned. And then when we talk about agricultural land as a strategic interest which is also a national interest in production where all capacities could be included, as well as defenders, that their cooperatives unfortunately say are not competitive and billions of euros are given by the Ministry of Agriculture through incentives. What are the results? That domestic production was destroyed, that the Croatian man was eager for domestic food, Croatian food. This is where they brought not only this fund on a beggar's stick to the Croatian state by the field, rivers, cattle funds that he once had but now they no longer have it. We import food of questionable quality at least. We're talking about a gold stake, a colleague of Djakic's daughter-in-law, and she sold Croatian to a gram. We've been driven by grain silos who knows where. There is no gram of gold in Croatia. The gold picker was sold and we didn't ask anyone. So much for gold shares, about gold, about what Croatian defenders created and politicians made.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11248	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11249	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, fellow Bull, there are grand and professional decisions made by party comrades and nothing to anyone. They're always so good that they're on the verge of sound logic and mind. And when it is found that these are the worst decisions they defend themselves to the last because the other should always be saved, they appear to be condemned as it is the order. As far as gold is concerned, if gold is turned into foreign exchange savings or foreign exchanges in the Croatian National Bank, I think it's actually okay. If we have foreign reserves then they, they didn't run away, for them you can always buy gold again and put it in leverage. The drop in the price of gold, and I asked experts about it at the time that should have been preceded, and who actually came also saved that there would be no greater destruction, and by then there could be bought a good portion of the foreign currency deposited in the Croatian National Bank. I couldn't say very professionally about it, but here I was pleased with the answer that it was converted into foreign exchanges that were deposited and that we have as protection in Croatia which were used several times to start an investment cycle in Croatia and start a capital market, a particular segment is allocated to the market and something is started. But here I believe that all of this that we discussed today and talked about should be further as representatives of all the expensive and experts, and lawyers, and economists, well tackled what happened by privatization and now in the newer time of these companies and sales, why didn't the fund experience 7% of Croatia's insurance, what kind of capitalisation was done, what kind of sale was made by Croatia's insurance, what does this INA really mean about which we lost so much time?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11250	The next replica is the esteemed representative of GordaN Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11251	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I answered the line not because it could be explained to Mr Djakic because he will find it difficult to understand, but for Croatian citizens, I have to explain once again that they do not deal lightly with terms for which man does not know what they are, for example. a gold share, etc., because if it were something that was enough for MOL at that time and that it meant a lot to them, people wouldn't pay 10 million euros to get a new contract in 2009 and get shares from the Croatian Defence Fund to come to 49% and not pay 4000 kuna shares. So if the Hungarians were satisfied then they wouldn't pay a bribe to Sanader, they wouldn't try to lobby further through Joza Petrovic and his consultants. So they wouldn't be doing all that if they were satisfied at that point. And now I'm going to tell you once again how many Croatian defenders have been damaged by that 2800 kuna sale. So your INA has 10 million shares. If the price had been paid by MOL a year later by trying to get over 50% of the property of 4000 kuna, the fund would have received 8 hundred and 40 million kuna more than it had received a year earlier. 500 thousand users or, for example, those who have slightly greater stakes than they have, given the war route and what has passed and in the war of their colleagues Fred Matic, would get from 1600 to, a colleague Fred Matic would get 20 thousand kuna more for his share if you hadn't sold 2800 kuna, but 4000 kuna. So you damaged the Croatian defenders. Please don't talk about the gold stock when you know for a fact that MOL wanted to pay another 10 million euros to get a new contract. So don't talk about terms you don't understand. Otherwise, your colleague Maric told you that it was... then prime minister and everything that happened and unfortunately the Croatian public knows a lot about it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11252	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11253	Your understanding or misunderstanding was said by your craftsmen, the worst minister, the worst time, spent money, the man who came, the first job founded in the Croatian Parliament, all knows about craftsmanship. Imagine what a lumen that is. He was making something, he was doing something in his life. The demagogy you're spreading along with your party to the people has already come to the top of your head. The ruin you've established, the lies you've filtered them all along and today. 900 kuna is the value of shares, 900 kuna. Look, open the Internet, Google, you're an expert on everything. You're an expert in film co-production. Did you start more of your film production in America? Because you went to sell movies and that's why you're an expert. What are you talking about and who are you insulting today? You can be ashamed of your work that you've done unprofessionally. You didn't know where you were coming from, what you were talking about. We met you as a man at the first fair in... Because you didn't know where you were. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You barely knew what craftsmanship and entrepreneurship was. You're giving someone lessons. You who out of your budget of the Department of crafts are in charge of this whole year that nothing can be opened, no segment can be launched, you're going to tell me that I don't know what I'm saying, that I have no idea. See how many shares were sold after the sale of 7% of defenses at how much they were sold. What someone was offering, what someone was promising, was playing on the willow. You can hang that cat on the tail. He didn't pay. He did not pay 4000 kuna but offered 900 kuna and a half 900 kuna shares were sold. That's true. That's true. The Croatian defenders' fund could only have done something, waiting to sell to the bags.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11254	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11255	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Several articles were injured, 232 to 238, where Mr Djakić continued to insult him. I wish his microphone was on for the citizens to hear what he's using because he says the most about him and what he's doing. Otherwise, I'd like to protect the MPs from insulting him, he's said a whole series of insults to my account, and he's supported it with a whole series of lies. 900 kuna, so I think now, yesterday was the sale of shares of 2800 kuna. The highest stock price this year was 3400 kuna. Mr. Djakić, you probably don't even know how to use the Internet so you can't even get that information. Here's your problem, but don't, don't Do not insult and threaten because Croatian citizens see all this very well. ... [[Intruder: It's not an injury, you said injury to the Rules of Procedure.]] 232. to 238. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11256	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Miodrag Demo. Replica, did you look for me? ... Oh, no, okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Dear Representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11257	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Djakic, you spoke about the gold stake, spoke of by a very professional colleague, Maric. And I wouldn't add anything except one sentence, which is that in 2003, the gold stock was supposed to be the one that provided the RH 75%+1, not the one that allowed MOL to own 25%+1. That's only two shares of difference but that's why it's a gold share. More than that, however, the dispute over the gold stake remained unclear today in the Croatian public. How did MOL with 25%+1 share get disproportionate management rights in INA? And the question arises whether the bridge of the Austrian MOL that appeared in that same competition and offered only 20 million dollars less for 25%+1 of the INA shares would have given much more if he knew what MOL knew, which is that under the contract we would have given the management rights in the INI a larger someone who belonged to him as the owner of the core capital of 25% of the estimated shares. That's what's left of an unexplained question. Would Russia... give up this public tender that he has information that after the sale and 25% of the estimated INE shares will have large management rights for state rights that concerned important financial transactions in INI after 2003. This is much more important than the fact that MOL became 25% + 1 but we should say, that's when the Republic of Croatia lost the gold share because it sold instead of 24.9% sold 75% + 1 share of 10 million shares of INE that one share was gold and then the Republic of Croatia lost that gold share and the MOL had 25% + 1 control rights, which by the rights of the owner's share absolutely did not belong to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11258	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11259	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, yeah, the question is clear which one we'll be asking all the time. Which means that the gold stock and what it contributed to those who negotiated it, who were dealing with information, were not allowed to share information, made it possible to buy 25 + 1 shares. It is clear to all those who want to know, those who do not want to, who protect Maras and him alike, who protect officials who at the time managed the Ministry of Finance, who were headed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, who made decisions, clearly they do not see, they do not want to know, they do not want to read and they do not want to say a quality word and to take activities. What I want to point out is that a huge fraud and a hoax is happening in public perceptions that many times does not know what the Croatian Government decides, which is decided by certain officials, and especially by certain people. The selection of individuals at the head of the ministries as they have done in recent times without any work experience, without any knowledge, without any practice from the Prime Minister to the ministers, is a clearer indicator of 100 billion new debt, 100 billion displaced around the world looking for a living bread for their jobs. These are the results of those who have never done anything in their life, those who have demagoguely told cheap stories, those who have put under control and the State's Attorney's office and the police many times direct it to harm others and to turn their unblessing decisions into others.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11260	Next replica, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11261	Thank you very much. Comrade Djakic, the biggest tragedy is when people don't read the laws. So if 25% +1 of the shares don't mean anything, it doesn't bring any benefits, why in the INE Privatisation Act, the Republic of Croatia will keep 25% +1 shares until the EU joins, so probably one share means something. The other thing is, people come up here with numbers. So in 2003 INA was sold 900 kuna per share. In 2007, when it was a public offering, the public bid was at a price of 1690 kuna. Later, MOL gave the price 2008 to reach a certain part of the stock. However, colleagues who speak of 4 thousand kuna forget that HANFA, therefore the not banking financial sector's surveillance agency, suspended in 2010, then-head Mr. Samodol suspended trade in INA shares just to prevent immoral offers from reaching 50% of the ownership. And then HDZ was in power, so very interesting that no one would say it. So these are the truths, these are facts that can be verified in official documents of the official institutions of the Republic of Croatia. However, it is obvious that politics and its sins do not fit to appeal to the provisions of official institutions. And in the end, you were talking about governance. Whoever chooses someone to do some work for him needs to know clearly what he expects of him. Whether the former management company for the Croatian Defence Fund did its job well or not, the reports showed. How and why this society got so much compensation, we'll discuss it when we talk about the next reports. Is that what the compensation received from the Croatian Defence Fund is expected of it and therefore Croatian defenders and the logical thing is, at that time the state still has about 39% in Croat if it has a good will towards Croatian defenders, regardless of the provision in the law, it is always possible to make a decision that the job itself is without compensation to the Croatian Defence Fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11262	Replica response, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11263	Thank you very much. Well, you best know what it was and what it was like. You reminded me well, I forgot about the ban on the INA stock market. Yes, there have been attempts and the destruction of the fund, there have been attempts and suggestions that the fund be registered in a different society so that the bags can buy shares from individuals of the defenders at who knows what prices. There were all sorts of interventions and all sorts of possibilities, but it was not allowed to be spent just by achieving a grateful price that was useful for Croatian defenders. This 4000-dollar dumping which was clearly said had to be prevented, given that the pure intention was to acquire 51% of the property and then assume complete management of INA. The refineries were likely shut down, oil was brought to the tanks in Croatia. The intentions are recognized. Those who don't know about it, of course, are probably better at some other things than selling production houses in America, visiting and offering everything and everything just not doing what they were in charge of. I believe that the Croatian Defence Fund will continue its work, that we will find opportunities and strength to make 7% of Croatia's insurance shares a new potential in its management. We hope that Croatia's insurance will not continue to fall in business and express losses so that 7% of the shares will also have a dividend that will be welcome both the foundations and the scholarship fund. And I hope that until then, until the Government of the Republic of Croatia decides on what 7% of the shares will not see Croatia's insurance fail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11264	Thank you. The next individual debate is the distinguished representative Miodrag Demo.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11265	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, dear Deputy Minister Vukic, a respected member of the Tolic Fund Management Board. To return to this Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families. Simply accepting this report would lie to myself and Croatian defenders. The operation of the Fund in 2014 was negative, therefore the logical thing is that I will not accept it as a human, as a Croatian defender. Out of responsibility to people, i.e. Croatian defenders and members of their families. Until the moment we make a management strategy, if it exists or does not exist, it may exist, but I don't know about it, and 16 years in the city of Zagreb, I've been dealing with the population of Croatian defenders. Management of the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families, and as long as we do not appoint professional people inside, economists from the field of the Croatian defence sector, and not representatives, let me not be misunderstood by people who may be running some associations or other organizations, etc. I think that time has matured to finally sit people down and file a report, i.e. The Croatian government, the prime minister of the future, will want it, I hope it will also be held by the Croatian State Parliament, i.e. The Veterans Committee. Why? Because it requires the logic of the thing that probably so far, the Croatian Defence Fund would not liven up to this great minus that it is today. I think Croatian defenders deserve this to be explained in a transparent manner by anyone, either by the foreign or the Ministry or by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that they finally know what is currently in the Croatian Defence Fund and what further processing plans are, I always say processing, i.e. Inflows, inflows and from where and to return to its original position to the Croatian Fund, the Croatian Defence Fund is doing business, I would say positively. I'm not some economic expert, but I'm saying the logic of things requires that we really have to deal with this topic and bring up the Fund Management Strategy and name one more people of professional economists, lawyers, anyone to manage this fund. There you go. Thank you. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11266	Thank you. We have four replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Blaženko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11267	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Dear fellow Demo, I absolutely agree with you, first of all, on the strategy, to develop a strategy for the management of the defence fund and to agree that there must be experts inside. But I assure you, you're even better than I am, you know, within the defence population there are very high-quality people who are professional for both legal and economic segments and they can also help create a strategy but also in this legal and economic segment to assist in the management of defenders. Therefore, from that fund should, from that mile there should be experts because they will have a greater sedation with due respect to all other experts. And for the development of the strategy, I also absolutely agree with you, and I will appeal once again to the current current Board of Defense... The fund, which is well thought out on a sub-fund, i.e. one sum of money that would contribute to the capitalisation of the OPGs owned by Croatian defenders, because trust me, by directly recapitalisation, you help the defenders and their family themselves and thus create a predisposition for tomorrow's profit of these OPGs, where the future is, and the Croatian Defence Fund also has a bigger future. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11268	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Miodrag Demo.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11269	Thank you, colleague Boban. I agree with you, indeed, that you should, the experts really need it. I don't think there's anyone against it in this House. However, so far, the leadership of the Croatian Defence Fund, with the honour of the association guys, is indeed appointed by the minister or the government of the Republic of Croatia, but let's give people a chance to others, economists who come in to help these people, let's not worry about them sitting. But just let the experts come and be at least the advisory body someone to be inside and really return that fund to the Croatian defenders to do business in some positive way. And the future of these privatisations is why I am saying that Croatian defenders are to the fullest extent involved in this all together with the Minister, i.e. Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11270	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11271	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear fellow Demo listens to this debate all day long, there were more opportunities for me to report in replication or perhaps even for an individual debate but I will try to sublime. Both your individual and on behalf of the club is very critical, it is your right and obligation to vote by conscience and accept or not accept the report. In fact, I wish in the whole debate that I had heard much more about this report than about things and questions from history about first of all INA, Croatia's insurance. 2016, June, yesterday or a few days ago, Končar was sold. Did you, as members of the board, as defenders in any way know what was going on with Končar and whether she could or must have been embedded in that story and 7% transferred to this fund? It's not? Is there currently a tender for 50 Croatian consulting companies to assess the value of privatisation companies, including Podravka and Končar and ACI and Croatian Forests? And we're talking about what happened a few years ago or 10 years ago. What I cannot agree with is in some way the dissonant tone of calling as the only or most responsible colleague, Matic, minister in the past government. As far as I hear or as far as I know or as far as I can see these reports were more or less similar and devastating year by year. Is it... Shares drop? [[You don't understand.]] Well, we saw here the reverse story with the INA stock. Maybe she's dumping at 4000 but 2600 or 2800 is worth a lot more than 1600. I, as a Croatian defender, would be more pleased if I had 1,000 kunas bigger per share. And very briefly, once again, I will not allow anyone in that way to debate and share this assembly and share the defenders with the greater and less and patriots and defenders. Just for a reminder, the past government, the government of Zoran Milanovic, the number of combat days, the number of ministers who sat twice as much as any government before, rather than the current one. Do not, especially you fellow Djakic, use and twist and like to tell the demagogue demagogue story problems. Is everything okay in the fund? No, I don't. Do we need to make him better? Yeah. Do we need to make sure through a good strategy that we have enough stock that belongs to that fund to be good, to fertilize and carry extra value? Yeah. But don't use what was six months ago, six years, 12 years or so. We're not going to go that way in favor of the fund itself. And six days ago, we're selling a stake in a very high-quality Croatian company to pass. Without these cans and seas. Change, you have most, you are part of the parliamentary majority and change can no longer but the sea Thank you. [[Attack Sanader: Time fellow.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11272	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Miodrag Demo.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11273	I agree with my colleague, Jakovina, with you, I really agree with you in that part that we should move forward. However, the cause of this negative balance of our fund concerns me. Because I spoke out of all the previous governments that formed the Croatian Defence Fund. And now another fact when you said a little bit and pulled my tongue, someone was sitting with the Croatian defenders' associations at the INA Supervisory Board when they sold 7% of the shares. Yes, it is, Mr. Matice, it is. So I would do a review of that business so far and move forward and make a strategy. Well, that's exactly what I'm trying to say all the time that I would do the Fund Management Strategy and be present and return that fund in the interest of Croatian defenders and ennoble it. That's my whole point today of telling me I want to do it. But someone has to be responsible for the negative business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11274	Next replica, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11275	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you know best, since you've been working with Croatian defenders for so many years and you know their needs, their emotions, their condition, you know what's going on with them, and probably most objectively not sharing with anyone, although the regulations make it clear that there is a combat and non-combating sector and an evaluation that we haven't talked about today is not the same as the non-combat sector. And that should also stand in this report as the fighting sector is worth it, and as the non-combating sector is valued, which is how people would know it more clearly and clearly. I am not above all for demeaning and insulting, sharing, but I have many times to respond to the challenges that insinuate, which insult and demean both common sense and representatives and the entire Croatian people. It's necessary to say a lot of times what might hurt someone, it bothers someone. But if we were to keep our mouths shut, many times this sort of thing wouldn't come out. We wouldn't have gotten all the manipulations and all the pranks we've heard today that have been served over time. We're not going back in time, but we're discussing the past. 2014, and today is 2016. Report, which was only nine months later on the Fund Management Board and ended 31.12.2014. And only 17 September 2015 was discussed on the Management Board on the report, 9 months later. When stocks had a different price again, when different relationships were and when opportunities were completely different. It only speaks of care or care, the state of the fund, the intentions of the fund, the management of it and the initiatives to be implemented. So clearly, look, we have everything in this short reading that's been presented, everything is just a matter of seeing who's doing what and why he's doing it. Or why he didn't question all the questions. When the report that we are discussing today in Parliament, and the second one arrives for 2015, is already on our benches, has not been discussed on the board, then it is tragic and sad, then it is not in the interest of Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11276	Time. The next replica is the esteemed representative Predrag Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11277	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Demo, you've spoken well and in the end you haven't resisted using politics and saying you don't accept this report. If you don't accept it for me for being the head of the trust management board, it's even understandable, it doesn't matter anymore. But here's what I want to say in this replica is a big thank you to the board members who spent the past four years convulsing and coming both sick and all sorts of, and at different times from Split from Zadar. I remind you that three of the four members of the Trust Management Board were active participants in the protest against this government, against me, against the Ministry, against what, but I want to strictly separate it. This job they did on the trust's board of directors worked very well, they took it all the way to the last one. According to the legislation, the existing provisions relating to the Croatian Defence Fund could no longer be made. If we'd tried, we'd have tried. There are seven of us who were in that fund, and God is our witness, and we are our witness to each other for everything we've heard and for everything we've done, where we've gone, and for whom we've intervened and what we've done to make this fund better. And here, as repeatedly said, even the Wolf of Wall Street can't affect it if the T Com stock that our basic stock has fallen from 250 to 140 kuna over a period of 4 years. There really wouldn't and there's nothing anyone can do. And once again, I say despite all the political opposition if he were in a situation again, and I hope not, he would have re-emerged these same boys and Clem, and Arbanas, and Tolic, and Borkovic because all four of them had been crucified all these four years doing this job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11278	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Miodrag Demo.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11279	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Matić, I personally do not politicize in this part. I'm just saying that the balance is negative, and you as the minister had to react to it all together, you had to. I can't, I can't react, you're basically the chairman of the board of directors and all the members inside, you've had to react if the Croatian Defence Fund sinks. Therefore,... He can, he has to react, so you've done a bad job. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I mean it's facts and I can't fight myself, I can't fight myself. I'm not really politicizing here, I'm really talking about the business of the Croatian Defence Fund. I'm not politicizing here, and I don't want to politicize. I can't accept what's negative, but it's positive that 300 million kuna is positive, I would raise both my hands for your report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11280	Thank you. Lastly, on behalf of the applicant representative, the distinguished Mr. Ivica Tolic, member of the management board of the fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11281	So here I am, in my opening statement, saying that I am a representative of the Croatian defenders in the fund, and I will finally say only what is relevant to the Croatian Defence Fund. It is a really good idea, because from 2006 to 2015 370 million kunas were paid for the scholarship of children and 117 million kunas for social cases, mainly the most severe diseases of Croatian defenders, as a rule of cancer. I am obliged to say that despite his good idea, all good ideas are experiencing certain changes, changes and does not mean that she is the happiest organized. From the beginning, what is contentious and what is today is the questionable character of this fund. We heard various ideas, and as the board of directors we also presented ideas about buying real estate in Zagreb, highways, Pelješko bridge, however, the character of this fund in the interpretation of the society that manages the fund did not allow us any more significant activities and investments. Another problem is that at one point, it stops with the payment or transfer of the share into the fund. So we had a situation where you had a certain amount of funds to be taken daily through payments to Croatian defenders and one big problem of stock drop. So it's not that the fund, that the board of directors were irresponsible and that we caused certain losses. There should be a real argument and see what are the reasons why from year to year the constant decline in the share or value of the Croatian Defence Fund is. I will speak for the Croatian defenders and I will say that it is our interest that this fund survives, that a new law be passed. We are now working on project teams, we are involved in these project teams, and we have already discussed that the character of the fund needs to be changed, that new shares must be entered as assets into that fund. And I'd like to say one thing: Here, several times, there was a question of the expertise of fund management. Well, from the beginning, we have a company that runs the fund, so it was Erste, so now it's Hypo. So there is no one more professional in Croatia to manage these funds than those people who are on the market on a daily basis managing that fund. We're as representatives of defense associations here but there's no problem if there's a better one and those people who want to get involved, who might want to work in a better way, I really don't see any problem that four of us are going to be replaced tomorrow with some new representatives of the defenders who are going to be in that part that I don't know more professionally, who's going to do some better things than the four of us. Here's what I really want to say is that in our capabilities we've given everything we could, what we knew that this fund survives, it's a very important institution, maybe it's the most humane and socialist in this country right now. And here I hope that, at some point in time, without some kind of politicalisation, we will find the best model of the fund organisation, change character so that it can bring yields, so that it can function on the capital market and that it can also provide scholarships and assistance to Croatian defenders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11282	Replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11283	Thank you very much. Well, I'm sorry that the head man of the fund isn't here. Why? Because he'd have to answer one question that's coming back here, you can't give it away. And that's and the state had some shares of Telecom if I'm not mistaken, something small. This government sold at one point I mean 3% of those shares. Look, fellow Matic, you mentioned it several times, at which price your government sold those shares and look at it, I replicated it, but since, well, let the representatives who speak of Telecom look at what the value of HT shares was at the moment until the state sold its share and what it was, to which the value of HT shares fell when it was practically only owned by Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11284	Another replica, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11285	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Tolic, as a member of the board of directors, I don't blame you, nor the representatives of the defense associations. I made my guilt clear to the President of the Governing Council at that time as well as the Government of the Republic of Croatia of that time. They're the main actors that can or won't. And since I made it clear who said they wouldn't have a phonogram and a recording for this Assembly speaker, then the Minister of Finance who made it clear we won't give the defenders or the shares. We're not giving them anything. That is what Mr Matic remembers, after which he was no longer allowed to say, it is a party decision, it is a party decision and must be respected. The derogations from the prescribed restrictions are possible for the purpose of changing the market prices which constitute the basis for assessing the value of the assets and liabilities of the fund. The change in the exchange rate, changes in the organisational and economic relations between the entities in which the assets of the fund are invested, the fund management companies will lead their business with the property of the fund with the care of the orderly and conscientious shareholder, with respect to the principle of security, profitability, liquidity and division of differences in investment in securities and in deposits with financial institutions in accordance with the law. Here, the other couldn't find a common language with the government and with the government anymore, and that's why it gave up. Erste's company suggested a deal break-up because they saw where things were going. You have not informed Mr. President of the board of directors, and I therefore express my suspicion and disdain that they were not familiar with the state, the possibilities and the right to make decisions. That's why the minus this year, regardless of the stock drop, could have been sold in quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11286	With this debate, we completely exhausted the debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11287	Then comes the report on the business of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2014. He is the sponsor of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal of the War Veterans Committee, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the operation of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2014 is accepted." Please vote. Who's in? I'm asking for a result. 61 for, 4 abstentions, 63 against. I find that there are not enough votes to reach this conclusion as proposed by the Veterans Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11288	The following point is: - Report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2015 The applicant: Ombudsman for children On the basis of Article 18 Law on the Ombudsman for children, Article 19 The Registrar’s Rules of Procedure for Children, Articles 127 and 128 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The full report is on the Croatian Parliament website. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You received the reports at the session. The government delivered an opinion. Does the applicant's representative want an additional explanation? Dear Mrs. Ivana Milas Klaric, Attorney General.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11289	Honorable MPs and MPs, the Honorable Chairman. On behalf of my office, my colleagues, my deputies, Mrs. Radmillo, and all of you, I welcome you all. I submit this report to the Croatian Parliament on the basis of Article 18. It's a law about a child's attorney. The 2015 work report consists of 230 and some pages and, of course, we are obliged to submit a summary of 30 pages to you. I'm quite sure that you've read the report entirely or at least the parts that you especially care about, and I hope we'll just discuss the integral part of the report. Every time I file a report on my work, I actually need to say that it's really not just a work report even though it's a lot over the years, even though the list of activities would be enough. It is, in fact, the assessment of the situation of children's rights, which is first and foremost most important in the talks with children and visits to institutions where children are staying, on applications mostly delivered by my office to parents of children, mothers, fathers, grandparents, other people who care about children, institutions, their doctors, pediatricians, social workers. The report is also based on the cooperation of international institutions such as... the Network of Advocates of Europe,.... The Network of Advocates for the Children of South East Europe, Eurochild,.... These are all associations that we're members of. We would also cooperate with the UN with this Committee on the Rights of the Child, the Council of Europe, the European Parliament, UNICEF, etc., etc. In addition, in contact with you directly, sometimes we actually discuss certain issues. As for a little bit of these techniques, in 2015 we have 1456 new reports of rights violations and 688 active cases from before why, of course, some came at the end of the year, so by nature things can't be solved in a year. However, I will not say cases but we follow cases with children through a long period of years because very often it happens that some children, some families actually show that it is not only one problem, but that it continues over the years and sometimes unfortunately in the competent institutions it cannot even solve for many years. I can actually say that we have a slight decline, a slight but still a fall in individual applications. I'd say that's good. I said when I got on duty that the goal was to reduce the subject rather than increase it because somewhere it would mean that institutions are doing their job and that's generally good. In addition to individual injuries, we had about 1902 general initiatives, about 2,000 phone calls. We actually say we don't give legal advice but actually de facto we do it, my colleagues do it every day. Also because of your information, I'm trying to be realistic so of these about 1,500 reports of injuries I always say these are claims of violations of rights not necessarily and injuries. We often have parents, usually first one parent and then another parent of a child with a completely conflicting requirement around the same child. If we talk about 2015, what really marked the past reporting period throughout Croatia and, of course, not only about children but specifically about children was this refugee wave that we witnessed. My office, or I, was involved with children on the move, especially children without escorts. It is a particularly vulnerable group of children who, as such, are often exposed to violence, potential trafficking, etc. Personally, I have been with my colleagues in Opatovac, Slavonski Brod, and I can actually say, tinyly going back two years that in fact in 2013 we have been anticipating the possibility of this situation that even then we have been sending recommendations from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Social Policy, the Ministry of the Interior, especially the judiciary, and that this actual co-operation is taking place today, that we also seek to warn our European Parliamentaries and the Government of some specificities and necessary protection of children's rights in the movement. Since last year's activities that were important to us. We hosted the South East European Advocates' Network and organized the conference "The Best Interest of the Child." With regard to these approximately 1500 reports of child rights violations, you are certainly interested in what are the most frequently available content and frequency, so most often. For years, actually, since the establishment of the office, it's not something new, so this year, the largest number of applications relate to the right to life with parents and parental care. A little less than a third, and it's actually this situation that I'm telling you about very often, either one parent or often two with claims that the other one is hurting children's rights, and very often it's with all the efforts of the institutions, the Centre for Social Care, the courts, the police, the state's attorneys and all the involved sometimes, unfortunately quite indecisive situations because, as you're probably all aware, family relations and some kind of emotional relations, especially when they're tied to a child are very difficult to solve institutionally or obviously, the most difficult ones I'd say about the question of children. The other ones are often applications of educated rights, I would say it is not surprising because most children at least at the age of the primary school, which is required, of course, are included in the education system but we have by frequency the first ones that weigh in the primary school system, then kindergartens, so preschool education and then secondary education. When I say infringements of the application of educational rights, I mean not only educational rights in a narrow sense but also other violations of rights such as violence against children, among children, health rights in the education system. Thirdly, this year, we're jumping out to say injuries, or to report health rights, and if you're interested in what weighs within health rights, that's actually one trend I'd say negatively reject child vaccination. And fourth in a row violence against children by adults and among children who are actually becoming I'd say everything, a growing problem. It actually happens everywhere, both in families and in institutions where children are located, at school, around school, on sports grounds. So, I'd say it's not just a legal question, of course. It's also a broader, social, sociological question, which is why we might have a chance to talk. These are 4 categories of most common applications and they are quite similar year by year. It is our feeling if I can say so from conversations with children and if we don't have a lot of formal applications or we don't lead them exclusively as such that a lot of companies are actually breaking the right of children to participation or participation of children in all aspects of social, family life, participation in judicial proceedings, etc. etc. The question arises at all, and what are these, where children should participate, what are positive content for children, what society in global, media offer to children, what children participate in, etc. etc. Where are the solutions? It's very difficult to sum it up, but I would say, therefore, regardless of the topic that solutions are always within three things, first of all constantly monitoring what is my duty and improving the normative framework. We very often say our laws are great, but not good practice. That's not quite true because we come across the rules on a daily basis where certain changes are needed, of course, and that's perfectly normal, I would say. The second is this consistent and good application of the regulations we have. It depends, of course, on both the material and the human condition and the necessity of education of people who work in all systems. And the third is the famous need to change consciousness. Of course it's never simple, of course it never goes fast. But the necessity of a change in consciousness or possibly relatively slow pace, perhaps in relation to someone's expectations, does not mean the right to say that I am giving up the requirement for continuous improvement and for the constant alerting of the human rights situation, and of course I am thinking first of all about the state of children's rights. Of course, it is always a question of individual responsibility, knowledge, competence, courage, honesty of every single person living with a child, working with children to act in the best interests of the child. These are the data that I would single out as basic reports without entering this moment into a content that is quite extensive, I would say. And now if you let me cross over five points in the report, which are not listed under those titles because it cannot belong to a single right, I would say that it is five phenomena, or five of how I see them burning problems in Croatia, which concerns children and children's lives. First of all, I'd say that's what it's like for the past year, and for the whole series of years. Unfortunately, in the last few years, it's poverty. We are a poor society and, of course, children live in general with their parents, children live in families. If they live in institutions, they are again institutions that depend on the economic power of society, i.e. the state as a whole. And, of course, poverty affects all aspects of human life, including all aspects of children's lives. First of all, I mean education. Children, or their parents, have difficulty getting textbooks, there are great differences in local community opportunities, the issue of transport financing, accommodation of children in dormitories, those children who are especially from some rural or remote areas such as islands, dieting children. Right to health in terms of waiting for paediatric and specialist examinations. Of course, poverty also affects the possibility of hiring professional staff, so in some parts you do not have certain professions at all. There is not enough number of pediatricians, there is no sufficient number of logos or other experts dealing with children's rights. The impact of poverty, of course, and on leisure, negatively, in terms of the possibility of participation in activities and the ability of parents to pay for activities more and more often are actually about activities that are charged, and unfortunately, less and less about them in at least some local communities that can afford free facilities, social protection and the possibility of singleing out for children are at risk. Of course again, the solution to strengthening the economy, without it, has no better socio-economic position of children. But on the other hand, I'd say in times of crisis and poverty when we're already in the situation we're in, maybe a matter of setting priorities. Some societies have succeeded and in times of crisis however decide to put children in the first place and somewhere in fact all research, I am quite sure, you know that investments in children in the long term are never a cost, that savings at some age at the beginning of childhood is actually always shown in the long term as a cost later because of the need for activities of different institutions, treatments etc. etc. The second thing I wanted to point out is what I notice every day in calls I'd say sometimes desperate citizens are a huge mistrust in the system. We are complained about the failure of various parts of the system and the Centre for Social Care and the courts and the police and the State's Attorney's Office. I'd say there's no system that, and if it's doing something wrong, but the most objection, and I'd say it's actually a serious matter we have on the judiciary. Why do I consider that the most serious? Because the judiciary is actually coming to an end. All these systems very often do something and do things, but the judiciary is, in the end, very often about children making decisions. Decisions are made in many cases extremely slow, and the time course for a child and for an adult is not the same. If you have a decision on parental care that you don't make for a few years, so a three-year-old child and a 10-year-old child is so I would quite say if you let me do it to another person. I'd like to mention somehow it seems to me that it's kind of escalated this year by a distinct mistrust in the profession. In a democratic society such as Croatia, it is absolutely legitimate to question the decisions of the authorities, protest, express doubts, and that is quite all right. However, I would say that there are envisaged procedures for this, and I would say inadmissible incidents where the street decides on the life of a child, and we have had such examples on behalf of competent bodies such as welfare centres, courts and the like. So somehow trust is lost in the profession, trust is lost in teachers, everyone becomes better teachers than teachers, better lawyers than lawyers, better doctors than doctors. So, questioning that but in the intended democratic procedure. Thirdly, what has also been worrying for years, much has been said in this year, this reporting period we are talking about last year and in this year especially demographic policy. I wouldn't talk about it because it's not the subject because we're in last year's report. However, the lack of truly family policy consistent and the lack of quality family policy has no support for families, parenting, difficult people align their parental and family obligations. The kids are all alone for a long time. You have research that children spend five hours a day on a different form of computer, television, cell phones, five hours. You certainly wonder where those five hours even fit during the day, but here are the research results. There are not enough services for children, there are uncoordinated working hours of preschool institutions, there is no stay for children, younger ones. So, you have somewhere usually until second grade primary school, they're still gonna agree little kids to be home for hours. So we really see it as a continuous problem. What concerns and what I would say is a painful point of Croatia but not only of Croatia but also of other countries, of course I suppose it is and does not have to be any easier, these are huge differences in opportunities, in financial opportunities and then in services provided by different units of local self-government and administration. So in many situations we do not have some discrimination in terms of regulations, however, de facto in the territory of the Republic of Croatia we have a huge difference in the possibilities that different local units provide to children. From education to health services, support for mental health of children who become a major problem. Children in rural areas, children on islands, from some areas, we almost have no applications. Let's say Lika, Gorski Kotar, a man wonders if the situation is really so good there? The most applications are expected from Zagreb and then Split, Rijeka. Whether the situation there is really so good or people are coping with the situation, or maybe they don't actually have at all even though we have regional offices, maybe they don't have technical means in terms of the Internet and the ability to contact us even if they wanted to. It seems to me perhaps, very often, I'll tell you quite personally in this place I've been in this place for 2 and a few years now and one of the biggest frustrations in this business is when you go, say, into the education system then they tell you but the founder of the school is a local community. Well, now the Ministry can't do anything about it. Well, the founder of the hospital is a county, so there's nothing you can do about it. It seems to me that it might really be, we're aware of what it's like to be both a demographic and a family picture, a population picture. That some things really should be decided at national level. So, of course, I don't think all schools in Croatia should be unified, but one minimum standard, one basis must really be equal to the child in Zagreb and the child in Zagorje and the child on Lastovo. Because it actually guarantees them the same opportunity in some way. There are no equal people but equal starting position and thus ensuring full potential development. And my private, professional and I would say that the pains of children's rights in the Republic of Croatia are children without parental care, children with developmental difficulties, children with malignancies, palatable care, children with chronic illnesses, children with behavioral problems. That's right, Zagreb. Step aside just 50 km away, yesterday I was visiting an institution near Zagreb, so it is about Zapresic, our colleagues actually tell us in Zapresic there is no logo at all. Parents are desperate, in some areas in Croatia, and I think most of all about Slavonia in Dalmatia in these areas like, Gorski kotar, the island has no institutions in particular I mean children with difficulties, ADHD, children with autistic spectrum disorders, parents wander and parents are desperate. Parents don't know where to find help anymore. There's not enough institutions, there's not enough specialized experts. There, of course, and where there is a lot of pressure and it is re-opened with new costs because if you have to come somewhere to Zagreb to do something, these are costs and you can't, of course, have continuity if you are so far away from your place of residence. So I would say that these five things that I tried to say are really somewhere, there are certainly more but that the key problems of children, i.e. children's rights in Croatia, are the key problems. Last year, it was actually marked by parliamentary elections, whenever some of the elections are local, parliamentary, we have the full force of objection to say so to all sides. Someone always doesn't like what the candidate of this or that option has done. What we have been warning and trying to tell both the Croatian public and the DIP for years is therefore not to manipulate the child for pre-election purposes but to talk in children's rights programmes. However, I also have to be realistic, and we have questions. Not every painting or every appearance with children is a violation of children's rights. We had young people in the audience earlier, they could have been children, to meet them in the hallway and ask you to stop. At the very least, it would be rude to refuse. So when a child comes to visit the Prime Minister, the presidents of the Republic sometimes have the role of educating children on the work of institutions. So that's where it needs to be made clear. So one is pre-election time and clearly clear manipulation, and the other is how I say normal participation of children and in social life, so if you want to have some kind of political life. What's becoming more and more noticeable in recent years seems to me that this year is slightly escalating is a sort of thing I'd say commercializing children's rights and commercializing children at all. So we in society have absolutely different problems that bother us, but as if we don't have the strength to articulate or talk about them in an argument, then we push the children into it and then it becomes a problem to talk about. So you have children in protests, for various different topics, all the same which obviously children are not concerned directly or will not concern for many years or concern them in a controversial way. We really advise parents above all, especially young children not to use children, not to be pushed into potentially dangerous situations where we can reach some conflicting opinions, protests, or such. The past reporting period has marked and the strike will be remembered by educational workers at the beginning of the school year that lasted more than a week, in fact in some ways paralyzed the system, many parents from day to day, from hour were in doubt whether to take the child to school, and of course I think of the younger children with the elderly is not well, but at least physically you don't have to lead, whether he will take the children to school, he won't. Parents received confusing messages about the justified hours, about the unwarranted, about babysitting. Thus, not a double in the right of adults to strike which is guaranteed in the final line by the Constitution, so in itself it says how important this right is, of course, of course. We were in fact an attitude that it was in no way appropriate to invite children to give up, so a strike of adults yes, but not to invite children to give up their right to education. It was one if you want a very, very simple vocabulary position to give up your child's right to me to accomplish mine. So we have seen this as inadmissible and it seems to me that for the past year, this is the best example of the necessity of an independent and independent and specialised institution for the protection of children's rights in terms of guardians for children. In fact, if you had a position, if you had a position, I would say, so I'm going to say very openly that you only have a fellow attorney-general or colleague would have to balance between the rights of adults guaranteed by the Constitution and the rights of children. And whenever you have conflicted rights of adults and children, children cannot be organised politically, children cannot be organised on a union basis, children simply wanted not to lose. So you have to have someone who will be a spokesman for the rights of children. In addition, it is also a recommendation from the UN Committee on Children's Rights in order to strengthen the independence of institutions. And let me at the end of this year was you'll agree, something, each one is specific, each one can be fun in its own way, burning, sometimes a little bit less, sometimes a little more, that's good, we're not bored. This year, you will agree, in recent weeks, there have been some markings and debates on the work of defence institutions and independent institutions. Otherwise, of course, that's how it's my turn today. Lawyers are not executive authorities, lawyers are not courts, welfare centres, police, inspection, lawyers cannot be responsible for the state of the country because lawyers do not execute decisions, so they are not the authorities of the executive authority. The Advocate shall monitor the work of the Executive Authority at local and national level, monitor national compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and international documents, make recommendations to improve the system, however it is not the executive authority and cannot be responsible for the state of human rights or for the state of children's rights in the State. The protection of human and child rights is indeed the job of the Ombudsman and I often like to emphasize it and it must seem to me in some way to be clear defenders protecting in this particular case the defender for children protects all children in the territory of the Republic of Croatia even those who are not citizens, let's just say that this was a crisis situation for you, but also for every single child. So not necessarily and exclusively children as groups of what they do, but also each individual child because the child is, of course, an individual, a human being with human rights that belongs to him independently of any group, parents or the like. I would conclude in the end, somewhere very often, that the measure of democracy is the development and degree of a society of quality if you want it to be so aware that the measure for it is exactly respecting human rights and respect and that respect for both the more and the most human rights of those most vulnerable in society, which are children, older people, needy, socially endangered, etc. Gandhi even said that he was in correlation and patriotism and human rights and that he actually has no patriot without respect for human rights. I kind of saw that last night. In the end, I'd just like to say some of the provisions of my basic law that I'm working under, which is the Law on the Ombudsman for the children. Article 3 states that the Ombudsman acts independently and independently, that no one shall give instructions on work and that the lawyers and deputies shall not belong to any political party. Article 4 states that the Advocate shall be appointed on time of 8 years. We could probably talk about whether it's a long period or a short one. They have a similar mandate, so the same mandate has all the attorneys, judges, etc., etc. That time is one guarantee of independence. However, I'd just like to say one more thing. In Article 14 vice versa, Article 4 states that not accepting the Ombudsman's annual report means the possibility of dispensing the Ombudsman. If you are an independent institution with a term of office at 8 years and you are in a position every year that because you do not accept the report, your term of office is de facto de facto that you are not an independent lawyer and ultimately results in what may be good for a person but, in principle, from the position of the institution, it is not good that the measure of independence is ultimately measured exactly by the measure of independence as much as it feels or as it is an independent head of an institution that runs such an institution. I would say, if you'll allow me, one more sentence is that the relationship to human rights and children's rights is also measured by the attitude to institutions that serve to protect these same human rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11290	Eight replicas. We'll continue after break at 3:00.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11291	[[CONTINUES AFTER 15 HOURS.]] We're going back to work. Replication to the inaugural explanation of the Ombudsman for the children. Dear Representative Margareta Majeric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11292	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Madam Attorney General. After your extensive presentation that we have here and come to the afternoon session of the Parliament, where we will discuss your report. Before the debates begin on behalf of the club. I would ask you because I believe that in your report you have left out an extremely important review and, in fact, to the perception of your work as attorney and commitment to the adoption of the Family Law in 2014. You are also a lawyer and on television radio shows, in the stands and you were a member of the Working Party for the construction of this Family Law, which is generally known as the Family Law of former Minister Milanka Opačić, who was to be the crown of its activities. He's turned into an act of shame. He was called by all, judges, lawyers, associations on the left, on the right, and was able to connect incompatibly in criticising this particular family law, but you were still heartily defending the law. However, in January 2015, the Constitutional Court, as is well known, suspended the Family Law for an unbearable number of objections relating to all parts of that law. What's my question. If you have already participated in the 2014 Family Law Assessment and then in the 2015 Family Law Assessment, defending and thanking him, for which reason you refused to participate in the working group of the current Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, who properly and politely invited you to the Working Group in March 2016 and were you then objectively and politically neutrally, as you stated in your report. So, you want to, you participated in Milanka Opačić's working group, you do not want to participate in the new ministry's working group, although under Article 8. The law of the Ombudsman for children, the Ombudsman may participate in the process of drawing up draft draft rules relating to children's rights and governing issues of importance for children, and the Family Law definitely is.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11293	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11294	Thank you. Since it's not a replica, then you deserve it. Thank you, in fact, for asking because there have been similar questions in the public that I have answered, but again because of you personally and because of the public. You said there was a public perception of the law. Just like the word perception says is perception and waist is waist. Generally known as a bad law, a flat-rate review of a regulation is generally known. I don't know, as a scientist with a Ph.D. from a family law field, I took part in the development of the 2014 Family Law because I thought it was my duty as a citizen of the Republic of Croatia and as scientists involved in this area. By any chance, in 2015, if I were not a child lawyer, I would most likely participate in Mrs Bernardica Juretić's working group in the creation of another regulation, family or someone else in the area as a family law scientist if someone invited me to the task force. However, the difference between being a scientist and being a lawyer is important. When you're a lawyer, then you're a national independent body. It is true that the law says that you can, but as you can hear some doubts today, you can, sea, rightly speaking, not necessarily mean the sea. And my assessment in principle not only of these regulations but it is indeed in principle that it is not good to participate in a working group which, of course, organizes by nature the body of the executive authority, which of course does not mean that you will not make your remarks, suggestions, criticisms, praises that I have done and what I have done in contact with and in correspondence with the Ministry of Social Policy and have done. When we speak, I have to tell you because professionally you couldn't possibly simply shut up that fact, there is no possibility that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia will suspend some regulation without an assessment of constitutionality. I mean, maybe I'm wrong, I can't say I've known the Constitutional Court's practice since the start of the establishment. I think it never happened in the Republic of Croatia until the Family Law and that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia violated its powers, violated Article 45. Constitutional law on the Constitutional Court and entered the jurisdiction of the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia by determining which regulation will be in force, whether I am objective, the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11295	Yeah, I'm asking you all to stick to the weather. There's also time in the final address to explain something that you didn't eventually arrive at. The next replica is the esteemed representative Maria Budimir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11296	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor's Attorney General. I've been listening to your presentations and reading like all these years your report is on really extensive 230 stations. You correct me if I'm wrong. I haven't noticed, but I believe it is also in the description of your work and in the area of cooperation with the Poliklinic for the protection of children of the city of Zagreb. Do you have any idea how much it means in some of your research and cooperation, what data on the types of abuse, the age of children who have been abused, and whether or not we can draw some conclusions from which your actions could continue to be seen? And may you be satisfied with your visibility in public opinion. I personally honestly, here, we had, in the report you have, you list a lot of actions. But your visibility in public statements my personal opinion of you, are you satisfied and could you give more. And here we are in the sixth month when the state's graduation is being written, and I have to admit that we have more and more high school kids while we're teaching in cafes. Do you have any knowledge, complaints from parents that these children are not adequately taken care of because we sent children, parents to school. But here's the organizational look that schools don't know or can't organize, and they invited kids to classes on Saturdays, even though we know that basic and secondary education says that teaching takes place in five working days except for some special circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11297	The reply to the replica is the esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11298	... Pretty good. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] Of course, we do not mention in the report the importance of cooperation with each institution or association, but of course we work with them. From violence against children, we write in the chapter mainly violence against children. Our violence is on the rise, our family violence is on the rise, violence against children in institutions is on the rise. The Home Office's data because we're processing official data is talking about a 18.6% drop. But what concerns us is not so much, we look forward to falling of course. What we're worried about is the phenomenon and I don't know how to say the aggression and the consequences of some cases. If you have read the daily, one of the two most rabid daily newspapers in Croatia today, then unfortunately you could read about just one case that is truly shocking. What often happens with violence is further violence, in fact, in judicial proceedings where children are subjected repeatedly, where, unfortunately, no technical possibilities are used that polyclinics and some other institutions have to be not witches. Classes, cafes really alarming. We're worried about noriads, little noriads, we drink a lot. We are a nation that is high, unfortunately on top in a bad way by alcoholism. The children follow that trend absolutely. And we put out fires, call the police, doctors organize duty, roots are obviously somewhere else. Perhaps in the loneliness of the children we talked about or in the acceptability of the social one. Saturday, school, I agree. And that strike was supposed to be made up somewhere, and the kids were overloaded. And just visibility, maybe. [[Intruder Tepesh: Time.]] You asked. You can always do better and I'm never absolutely satisfied. But I don't own the media, and I don't own the media, or the press, or the electronics. And in principle, I always answer to the media when they ask me something. I don't want or can force the media.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11299	Here I am, please, you can always write down in the final address you'll have a chance to say everything. The next replica is distinguished representative Nada Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11300	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Attorney General. I'm really going to be brief, and in that replica of mine, I'm going to only potential two things just to make it easier for you to have space to answer more precisely and in a shorter time. Certainly Family Law. You know very well that in public very often your name was attached to this Family Law that we know and did not end happily on its own. Your interpretation is a criticism of the Constitutional Court that suspended that law. However, I am interested in whether you feel at all responsible for the failures, or for the legal uncertainty and closures that have arisen because one time the profession was applied by a law and another by a new law. So the divorce started out like this, like that. A specific question, by the way. Did you, as a lawyer, have any knowledge of how in practice he brought about this Family Law, or what problems he caused? I mean, I'll just say for a little while, because it's not a family law either, but about children, the long-term divorce procedures, the obligation to participate, the joint plan to take care of the child. Marriages last a year. This prolongs the possibility of getting alimony by parents who are not with a child, etc. So, do you think you're responsible here, do you think there were any problems that went to harm the child? Your duty is to protect the child anyway. We do not see this critical review in your opening statement, even though we have seen that you have taught us about the Attorney General's Law, have warned us about the way it is appointed and resolved by the Ombudsman, on the time of the appointment of the Advocate General. A lot of things a councilman knows or should know. But these questions are addressed to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11301	Time. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11302	I'll try to be brief anyway. The chapter on Family Law, although as you well say, is not the subject of the report but the chapter and what is important in the previous reporting period of the Family Law, you have in the chapter on parental care. No, I absolutely don't feel responsible. The responsibility for the adoption of the rules may always and only be the proposing and executive body, and the holder shall be the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, and only the one applying that regulation may be responsible for the application. And if you're asking me if I personally think that the family law of 2014 and 15 was good, I think it is, I think it improves the legal position of the child in the important and person with mental disorders even though you don't ask me that. And so many first knowledge after 4 months of application has not been made any decisions of the County Court in Zagreb. The first knowledge from poll 90 and some welfare centers is that people from the field praise the law that you say the Constitutional Court suspended. So, I'm proud to have been involved in this task force and I'm giving, here's what you haven't asked me, but if I could do it all over again, I'd do the same thing because I think that law was made of quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11303	Thank you. Next in the replica is the distinguished representative Sandra Krpan. She's gone? The next is in the replica the distinguished representative Ana Comparić-Devčić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11304	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd like to congratulate you first of all on your work and on this report you gave us today. In your opening statement, you mentioned, I'll look back at two things. One is vaccination, and as a doctor, I think it's a big problem. I think it's the right of parents to refuse the vaccine to actually compromise the child's right to be vaccinated. How are we going to solve this and how? I think that we should all be concerned together and try to find the best solution that in the interests of children and their future we should find a way to find this vaccine that is mandatory in the Republic of Croatia for all children to receive. That's part of it. And the other part you've already been answering to your colleague, and I also think that the big problem is the consumption of alcohol among young people. I don't think our services and inspections are doing their job, that the police aren't doing their job. I'll give an example from the river. We have a nightclub that organizes a freshman, but not for the first year of college, but for the first grade of high school. It starts at 11:00, and if you take a liter of vodka, you get a booth. It's too scary, it's unacceptable! Because if our inspections were doing business, then 14-year-old kids couldn't even be out at 11:00, let alone consume alcohol, take a liter of vodka and get booths. So the institutions have failed completely. I believe that parents have also failed because if a parent allows his child to go to a nightclub at 23 o'clock where he and his friends, 14-year-olds and 15-year-olds, consumes alcohol, then it is really very difficult to expect the institutions to oppose it. So we've all made an appointment and we all have to work on having our kids Thank you, but just a second. [[Intruder Tepesh: Time.]] That our children really stop drinking alcohol at the age of 14 and 15.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11305	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11306	If I may confirm what you've said, we've sent recommendations to the State Inspectorate, who's doing reconnaissances, but they have no authority except to collect fines, to close the joints. We had several examples of nightclubs in Zagreb. What's our problem is advertising beer that isn't treated as alcohol but as a food product and unfortunately alcohol consumption is kind of propagating especially with sports events, one of them will start how smallly I'm informed tomorrow. Here, that's sad. I agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11307	Thank you. Replica, the distinguished representative of Tomislav Žagar. He's gone. Next replica, the distinguished representative of Ladislav Ilčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11308	Thank you. At the end of your speech, you have troubled the legal solution by which you submit your report to the Croatian Assembly every year, bringing it into the correlation of your independence. So in the sense that if you submit a work report every year and even if we can criticize it, then I guess you're no longer independent. So I don't know exactly what your proposal would be then. So, I haven't been in years when there was any criticism of your work that you complained that it wasn't a good report to the Parliament, nor did you bring it into line with the lack of your independence, i.e. other words only remind you of the Law on the Ombudsman by which the Croatian Parliament chooses you, which you file and elected by Croatian citizens, we appoint you, so I remind you of some foundation of democracy, and where any speech about you not being independent because you submit the report to us strongly condemn. Because we are representatives and representatives of Croatian citizens who chose us. We chose you, you are responsible for the Croatian citizens we represent. And so it's totally unacceptable for me to assess your assessment, so when you say we're being elected, I'm eight years old, and I'm supposed to file a report every year, so that's where your independence is at stake. So I can't support it, but I strongly condemn such an approach because it turns out that all politicians are addicted. And we're not addicted, we're representatives of the citizens. And you, as our representative for children's rights, should answer to us just as we answer to the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11309	Thank you. Replication response, esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11310	Thank you very much, Agent Ilcic. Otherwise, we regularly follow in our work, and I appreciate it, you are one of the few who closely monitors my work. But I guess you heard me wrong. I didn't complain about the fact that I have to file a report or that you have an absolutely legitimate right to discuss it or that you can criticize me. I was talking about something else entirely. I was talking about the fact that non-acceptance, that is, not accepting or not voting the report is the reason for the resolution, and this should only be in the normal course of things because of the crime of losing Croatian citizenship, the ability as it was settled in the Law on the Ombudsman. And that's my proposal, and that's what I think one of me is probably going to do, and I'm going to propose to the Parliament, and maybe raise the issue of actually constitutionality of such a solution because we have four lawyers who are practically doing the same job in the same situation and a legislative solution, so it's not a reporting problem, it's not a criticism problem, it's not a dissatisfaction problem, the problem is the possibility of resolving because of the non-voting report. A colleague of the attorney general has a completely different legal solution which is perfectly fine, I would say.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11311	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? There isn't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HRID representative club and independent representative Sandor Juhas Iren Petrievcani Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11312	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the esteemed Ombudsman for children, colleagues and colleagues, this is not a classic report, this is also a report on the state of children's rights in Croatia. And first of all, I call on my colleagues and colleagues to approach it that way. Nor is this a debate about family law even though it is touched by the work of family law. What matters first of all to me here that a few days ago I read in the media and I was very worried about it, the media passed on I don't know if it's true or not that it's planned that by rejecting the report in the Assembly three lawyers will be removed by the same principle, and one of them would be this child's attorney who sits here. If that's how I can say that the Parliament will take another step backwards. Me too, and my club won't be in it. Because whoever studied the matter in front of us objectively must agree with the claim that here the job of protecting children and protecting children's rights was, above all, in accordance with the law of this Ombudsman for children was fully in accordance with the legislation. I can even say without delay that this job was done with more impartiality and more independence than it was in the Constitutional Court. And unfortunately, given the level of political irresponsibility we've seen in recent weeks from people who are top state officials, I'm not surprised that the attorneys all three in the package have been convicted in advance. Because according to the domestic government practice, once again, I don't know which way is more important than what's been done, whether someone's in this camp or in that camp, and the ability is once again more important. And poor me with such a model of governance and poor me with such a model of governance not only of the state but also of public enterprises and public administration. The Advocate General's primary purpose is to monitor the state of law independently in the State. As we've heard every year they file a report here in the Parliament. But if it is agreed in advance that the report must be rejected even if the parent board accepts it then it is truly devastating for Croatia and devastating for us here. And in 2015, I read every page very carefully. I see that this Office of the Advocate General for Children has done what he should have done in accordance with the law, which he warned, pointed out, consulted on many problems and lacks of systems within his jurisdiction and laws. And the problem was pretty good. And I'm warning you here that we should really deal with real problems and these problems are so much that I had to focus on one, which is the judiciary in the children's interest. For example, we would prefer to adopt amendments to the law that has not been resolved by any Croatian government as a matter of urgency. And that's a big problem for the Croatian judiciary and it's called mild penalties for sex crimes against children. And to be even worse with these fines, there is still no security measure to ban child labour, but not even a safeguard measure under the mild penalty of the law. And why has it never been put in the emergency procedure of the Parliament before, and some things that were mildly said were not urgent? Why? Because it doesn't push any lobbys, because it's not a strategic company to be sold or because it's less important than ideology? I even have prepared a proposal to amend the law in cases of sexual exploitation of children in agreement with the profession, in cooperation and I now invite you from this speaker to support me in this, to support positive changes in the legislation that goes for the benefit of our children but not only in cases of sexual exploitation and child abuse but also in others. Is it normal for a child to sit in the same room, the victim of sexual abuse and the perpetrator while the child gives his testimony? Under the current law, it's a practice. It's left to the judge, if the judge decides to sit down, if he doesn't decide, then the judge's free decision. Because normally a child has to give testimony multiple times instead of providing emergency medical, psychological, and legal assistance in one place? And one authority who will represent the child from the beginning to the end of the difficult process. Is it so inexhaustible or is it expensive? Well, it's neither expensive nor inconclusive, so all we need is a decision of the proper and us here. Should I give more examples? As an example of a person who has endured a fine for many years of sexual exploitation of foster children, a very mild prison sentence and has not yet been rehabilitated, this man is legally established by Croatian laws by an association that wants to deal with the care now of absurdity by preventing and protecting against sexual abuse in families of social cases and homes for children. So I think we really need to settle this legislation. It is also not enough to confirm impunity when a person wants to get a job and work with children. Well, we know very well that this certificate is not an indication of previous conviction and, as such, it is missing. It is simply necessary instead to take the data from the criminal record of the Ministry of Justice. Generally speaking, the legislative framework is flawed, we heard it from the Ombudsman for children and not only when the child is the victim of sexual exploitation but when the child is the victim of any criminal or criminal proceedings. And that's what this Parliament needs to deal with more. The legislative framework is lacking even when the child is a witness. Why treat children like adults? No matter whether they're damages or witnesses. So isn't it traumatic enough I'm having this unfortunate event, but even the institutions have to create additional trauma to those children? Indeed, clear actions are lacking and varying from case to case. It is left on the autonomy of certain persons, certain institutions. And that depends on what kind of judge, social worker, lawyer, lawyer, cop. And that color does not guarantee that treating children will always be adequate and equal. And we've heard that citizens' complaints often refer to courts' slowness, inappropriate treatment of children, lack of guidance and lack of interest in institutions that should deal with children. And we see from all of this that there is a great need for legal change and there is a need for clear rules. And these problems can't be settled without it. And in the end, we're not just gonna help the kids, we're gonna help the whole system. Because when the rules are clear, then there's no action on its own as is the case now. And we heard that last year was marked by a complex legal situation and disagreements related to the Family Law. In January 2015, suspended by decision, a new Family Law was suspended by a decision of the Constitutional Court. And as we know, the Attorney General has spoken to the Parliament, the Government and the Constitutional Court. And what did she do? As far as I'm concerned, you can correct me if I'm wrong and I'm sure I'm not wrong, she acted in accordance with the law and acted in accordance with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child only under her jurisdiction. And that's the right way for me. And as I said at the beginning of the problem is a lot of violence in educational institutions, but in kindergartens to neighborhoods, to cyber settlements, settlements on the Internet etc. I imitate this report and what I especially praise is the idea of a child's budget, which is that, based on an assessment of the financial needs for children and at local and national level, funds are provided by sectors and this is how these funds remain protected from all cuts. Because what happens and we hear that children's rights, equality depend on those means. And that's inadmissible. I can't have kids in Lika having one option and the children in Kvarner are the other as they are now. So they depend on the budget of the local community. Well, that's the job of the state to ensure as much justice as possible and as much equality as possible in those children's rights. And I'm curious here why the Social Care Act he's brought and some positive shifts haven't entered and a series of suggestions brought by this child's attorney's office. Why? As far as I can tell, all your suggestions went towards better child protection. I'm interested in the answer to that question. And all of this actually shows two things. First of all, it's not the case of a particular family as it is here and perhaps misinterpreted. Not here but in public, but in fact it's an all-expensive passage of the state of society and it's clear to everyone, collective frustration, hard life because of the lack of money in individual families, unemployment, etc. But what is very important is what concerns us, secondly, unsettled and lacking regulations and insufficient cooperation between the competent authorities. It's a mantra that applies to everything from information in the public administration to the work of these competent authorities. We too can handle regulations more easily than we can solve the bad situation in society even though it is related to one another. But we certainly need to be aware of the responsibility for both of these things. Because if it wasn't for bad governance, there wouldn't be any regulations and then there wouldn't be this condition where we're in right now. And I especially stress why? Well, because I have a feeling, and I'm probably not wrong that this debate will turn into an ideological debate. And that would be really discouraging without me saying and sad because I personally and personally did not choose this lawyer and neither would I vote for her resolution. I do not want to participate in ideological discussions at all, and I call on all of you not to participate in this but to focus on what I say and that is a change of legislation. And the only thing I'm going to be involved in is an objective and reasoned debate because that's how it suits us. And we need to be aware that first of all, we need to represent the interests of children and not of parties, and of some stakeholders or other groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11313	Thank you. Replicated representative Maria Budimir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11314	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, here in most of your presentations I can agree with, I see you've been dealing with this problem a lot, and you've made some constructive suggestions. But there's a part that I can't agree on, and that's agreeing with the media. I think it's very inconclusive, here you have an example of the Attorney General's Report on Gender Equality has been accepted, meaning a counterintelligence in the media. The attorney general has not been accepted, but she remains the attorney general. It is the right of parliamentary deputies to give their opinion in some way, to discuss the report and to see whether it will be accepted or not. And in advance, we had only a few presentations and I didn't notice that anyone in this exhibition was ideological and that it went into ideological debate rather than more related to concrete examples of child issues.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11315	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11316	I'd like to thank you for the replica of my esteemed colleague. I said I'm assuming and expressing concern that this might turn into an ideological debate, I didn't say it turned out. As for the media, I also said that I am afraid and I hope that is not true, because if it is true, then the Croatian Parliament will take a step backwards. And I repeat, what I said in my presentation, so I call for a constructive and objective debate that is primarily in the interests of our children. So, past the party, past the ideological and other attitudes that can be orderly here. So if we want to steer that way, then I said I'd be with that exception. I'm just, if you've been listening very carefully. That was the point of the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11317	Replica, distinguished representative Margareta Majeric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11318	Thank you very much. My colleagues, also in most of your presentations, agree with you in particular in the work of changing regulations, laws, everyone who will specifically talk about children, provide better and what is most important protection of children's human rights but cannot agree, because among other things, the Croatian Parliament has denied what you have brought here and what was presented two, three weeks ago in the media, that the Croatian Assembly will tear down all three lawyers. Because although a report by the attorney general is not accepted, it is not provided in its law that if the report is not accepted, the term of office will cease. So, on that side, the attorney general is still the attorney general, and we know for ourselves, here tomorrow will be a week's report by the lawyer for gender equality was accepted in the Croatian Parliament. She is also the attorney-general of Ms. Višna Ljubicic. As far as the D.A.'s office is concerned, for people with disabilities. In my work body, a unanimous report was accepted. On this basis, I can also conclude that the debate will take place in this work. As for the Ombudsman for the children, the debate has just begun, it is difficult to assess whether she will receive support or not, and if she does not, then it will be one of the attorneys in that case of course. I don't want to prejudge, say something in advance that we don't know how MPs and MPs will vote. But I'd like to comment very briefly on what the report is about. So the report is in the debate that we would be justified if we felt that there was a reason for criticism and critical debate, and that is the legitimate right of all MPs and MPs because if we were to praise, support and say that everything is great, wonderful and wonderful. Then there wouldn't even be a point in reporting. If the Croatian Parliament appoints lawyers, then it is the Croatian Parliament and the one to discuss the report and the MPs to present their views on these reports.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11319	Replica response, Your Honor, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11320	However, fellow Members, it is not disputed in any item that the Croatian Parliament should discuss this report objectively and constructively, nor did I say it in one word. In fact, the Croatian Parliament, it is its basic business, Parliament comes from the word parlara, which means debate etc. So that's not questionable at all. However, if you have felt called or for some reason you react this way to explain the purpose of the Parliament, I don't think I need it because I am very aware of it. I wanted to point out far more serious problems than any debates that might, by any chance, not be constructive. There's a lot of problems I didn't even mention. They are being violated, and many categories still violate children’s rights, and even in this report the Ombudsman for children came to mention which by the way I personally or personally did not know or choose. So I'm really objectively performing without any other thought. What's important to me is also mentioned here, so there's a case of a psychiatric hospital called Lopaca where children are actually being treated to say so against the law because that hospital is not even registered for psychiatric treatment of children and are you even aware how many children are being treated today in psychiatric hospitals either in the daily wards or in public, and let's just say that no one is saying that there is a big increase in children who need psychiatric treatment. It's such a big problem that I haven't been able to mention that KBC Osijek had to expand the space, KBC Split had to add a psychiatric treatment department of adolescents and KBC had to introduce a primary school because children lying in those departments should not miss regular classes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11321	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11322	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Members, in your debate you advocate the independence of the Ombudsman for children and in advance you problem the possible decision to accept or not accept her report. I honestly don't know what decisions this report will make at the end but what is unacceptable to me and scandalous that in this House I resent and Mr. Vice President of the House, and I even thought I would raise a plate for the violation of the Rules of Procedure if he hadn't warned Mrs. Attorney General who, on several occasions today, had troubled the Constitutional Court's decision. It is scandalous that a state official appointed by the Parliament in the Croatian Parliament is having a problem with the Constitutional Court's decision whether he is well, quality of the assessment of whether a single law is in accordance with the Constitution or not. You can imagine that an official, an official of the state in Germany, is giving himself the right to evaluate the work of the Constitutional Court of Germany. It must be the same moment he's forced to resign and I, Mr. President, think that on several occasions you should have reacted when Mrs. Attorney-General had a problem with that decision and not only was she there, but she said when she would be able to write again the same law that was against it. Therefore, this very statement here in the Assembly, in my opinion, does not give the Ombudsman a positive view of the Parliament, accepts the report on its work because these statements have shown that he absolutely does not respect the only institution in the Republic of Croatia that can assess whether a single law or a legal act is in accordance with the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11323	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11324	I don't need to talk here about the Constitutional Court's work. A colleague and a reporter will say what she thinks about it, and I don't need to defend anyone. However, as far as the Constitutional Court is concerned, which is evident, and although this is not a debate on the Constitutional Court, it is the Constitutional Court, and here you must agree with me if you objectively had several disputed decisions. And, among other things, Mrs. Omeriec probably didn't get a third term for it. But this whole report, as I said, is also actually part of the state of Croatian society. And what's wrong with me is that there's no continuity. And if she's going to be a child's attorney, then it's a lack of continuity. I'm not saying it's God's day, but if someone did a good job and has no objective grudges, then I don't see why that continuity would be disrupted. And why is the lack of continuity not good? So it's not good for a number of reasons? Because we're a country that doesn't normally care about continuity, which I said. Otherwise, our public administration has no continuity and this is a general problem in both our national and public administrations and institutions. So good things are being thrown in the same way as bad with every shift of power. And it starts to stop and it keeps going like that. So all the strategies, all the laws. The question of whether a good part of it would have been brought at all if we hadn't gone to join the EU. We know that well. And now some strategies are the purpose of themselves. Why? Well, because there's really no true will to have them, and that's bad, and that's the lack of continuity, and that's what we can't learn as a state, and we have good examples of Scandinavian countries that I always like to call on, that hold on to continuity. And when one government does a good job, the other one stops exactly where it's supposed to, and then it goes up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11325	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Ana Comparić Devčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11326	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Members, I agree with you that this attorney has done her job well and that this House has been given the true state of children's rights in the Republic of Croatia. What you have problemed in your debate, which is the situation in the judiciary, that is, how you treat children within the justice system. The same debate or similar to one of the key problems in the debate on the prosecutor for gender equality was the same judiciary. Obviously, we have a problem with justice when it comes to violence against children or women, and the problem is that our judiciary is extremely closed. You have troubled the testimony of the children themselves that they must testify several times for the same event. If I am well informed, we within police stations have rooms that are trained to record witnesses and where the children might give because first they come to the police to testify, record and that children are no longer harassed that for several times in front of their abuser they must repeat one and the same story that is terrible. And when we talk about the lawyers themselves, then I'll agree with you. Yeah, the attorney general didn't. Her report didn't go through. The lawyer for gender equality, HDZ, voted with abstention. As far as the D.A.'s office is concerned, she's out of office, so right now we don't have a D.A.'s attorney for people with disabilities, which is a disgrace to this country. And as far as the child's attorney is concerned, I also think the point is that the attorney's office is being replaced.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11327	Replicate response, distinguished representative Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11328	Thank you very much. So, what you said about witnessing children in the same room with the abuser is the autonomy of the judge to decide whether it's going to be in the same room or not. And that depends, so it's by the free judgment of the judge, and finally and by his character traits, how empathy he is, etc. That's not a good way to go. This needs to be arranged by the state and it cannot be left to the judge as an individual decision. What's good in that report and what I see as a good proposal from the Ombudsman for children, and I have commended the establishment of these regional centres. And regional centres mean that, in one place, an emergency medical, legal, professional and any other help to that child who has suffered from this serious crime is actually being solved. And I don't see any reason why that wouldn't be possible. It really has nothing to do with anything. It's something that's above all divisions, it's something that if we really think ahead, if we're worried about our children, if we want society to be more orderly, more modern and healthy, so to speak both mentally and in any other sense, it's a prerequisite that we have to make possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11329	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Blaženko Boban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11330	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Irena, through your debate you mentioned the children's budget and I absolutely agree with you on this. But let me tell you something with some experience of 12 years from the local administration. Therefore, local administrations are also obliged to have a Youth Council and are obliged to have a children's town council, or municipal council. I don't know municipally, but for the city I know they're bound to. And one year just for that children's town council, we've secured money, money in the budget, what you're saying. The audit made an observation, we complained. We've been complaining to the D.A., too. It was six years ago and we got an answer that we didn't act in accordance with the law. So, I agree with you that even in a legislative sense, things need to be regulated because they can act within a local administration of a body such as the Council of the Youth or the Children's City Council without having the resources in the budget provided. And imagine the D.A., I'm not talking about this attorney, I'm saying it's six or seven years old that matches the local administration's observation that we didn't, because we secured the money, and it responds to the commentation that we shouldn't have done so by the attorney's office it suits us, you didn't comply with the law. Instead of putting pressure on the legislator on the part of the lawyer, this is ultimately one of her obligations, as well as on this one here today, that if those bodies in the city council or in one local community are to be established according to law, financial resources must be provided. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11331	Replica reply, distinguished representative Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11332	I therefore support any work for the welfare of children, but the common problem is in our state public administration as I have said that our institutions and our bodies are colluding. And so our collisions are local and state-level and they're practically collapsing. Why is that? Well, because the regulations allow them to do so. So, if the regulations were regulated roofly, it would go pyramidally from top to bottom, then all these collations would practically disappear. But what you're saying is, in fact, it's sort of a state budget at a local level, but what I said was a child budget at a state level. So it's this pyramid form where it would be arranged from top to bottom, right? That's what makes sense. And I don't think there should be an obstacle either, because you've now cited all the problems at the local level and all the collisions. Therefore, even more than necessary regulation of legislation is also needed in this regard.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11333	Thank you. Replica, the distinguished representative of Sabina Vosovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11334	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, you have a very important part of the report by the Ombudsman for children where she warns of the fact that people who are convicted of certain crimes against life, body, freedom of man, family, youth, marriage, etc. are employed in educational institutions. Or on the other hand, the person who is being prosecuted for the same crimes. The fact is that it is in fact a violation of the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools that is very clear in Article 106 that such persons should not be employed in schools. The problem, however, was that the Ombudsman pointed out and warned the ministry that it was necessary to inform the schools or school boards that they were checking whether or not these persons were convicted of certain criminal offences which we know can only be obtained in the Ministry of Justice from records of criminal offences or criminal offences. Unfortunately, these instructions and instructions of the ministry did not bear fruit and we will have to intervene in the law itself and prescribe that delivery is actually confirmed on this not only do not lead to criminal acts which are due from their competent courts but also that the confirmation of this other type of delivery is also. What is a certain shift that took place in December 2014 through the amendments and additions of the Law on Breeding and Education is the fact that for the first time the boredom of persons who, during the course of their work, gain knowledge that they have been convicted or have been prosecuted against them, that automation has to be suspended or their work contract has to be cancelled, which was not the case until 2014. Therefore, there was a discretionary right of the employer that he could but also did not have to fire or suspend such a person.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11335	Replica reply, distinguished representative Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11336	Yes, I am familiar with these changes in the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, and there is a very important cooperation between the Ministry of Justice, Science, Education and Sports, the Office of Advocates and other possible institutions. The fact that, until recently, it has not been verified at all whether a person has been convicted of acts of sexual crime under the law on these legal consequences is even more than devastating for all of us, especially for the executive authority. Whether it's gonna work out, it's practically up to us again. But on the one hand, we are now in an absurd situation, and on the one hand, it is necessary to ensure the protection of children and, on the other hand, the legal rights of the suspect against whom no criminal proceedings have yet been initiated. And now it's practically absurd because according to existing law, such a person is a suspect, so when he's not yet convicted legally, it's not possible to suspend from work with preschool and school children. So there should in some ways enable schools to have the possibility of some work ethical measures. And that's what the D.A.'s Office has also proposed in some way and I hope this will be made possible in cooperation with the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11337	Thank you. Replica, honourable representative of Ladislav Ilcic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11338	Dear Mrs Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, one part of your debate has been devoted to predicting whether this report will pass or not, where you have made some decisions you have heard and put in advance some prejudices and unargumented views and your debate in terms of reasoned facts. So I would just like to point out that it does not have to be so, or that it is not, because we are all preparing for this debate and some of us are also monitoring the work of the Ombudsman during the year, so I would not want any decision that we have or any opinion to be prejudged as prejudice and, of course, that each of us is listening to the opinions of everyone else and during this parliamentary debate to make a final decision. But I'm still saying I think it's incorrect to judge like this. Secondly, you put an ideological debate in one context of something automatically unargumented and useless and we hear it from many politicians today. I strongly oppose it, namely children are, each child is primarily one value as well as the love of parents to children as well as family, all of these are values. The values are those driven by man, driven by society. So there wouldn't have been a Croatian state if it hadn't been for the defender's love for the country, which is worth it. Parents wouldn't give birth to children, you know that no one gives birth to children because of tax benefits or child benefits, no matter how good they are. It's because they think it's good, because it's worth it. Today, we are putting ourselves in one danger that as soon as someone speaks of the values of declaring it to run unargumented and unnecessarily ideological discussions. Well, I just want you to let when we talk about kids that we're talking about values and that's not to be excluded from this parliamentary debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11339	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11340	Thank you. Although you have imputed something to me that I didn't say, you may even have crossed a line that I warned you about. So all of what you said is exactly the structures I warned about but not in terms of ideological. So who are you representing in this debate? I represent children. Because I'm not telling you this because I have to, because someone wants me to, because I promised someone that my debate today was only going in that direction because I want to be honest and well-intentioned to help children. ... I don't know. I'm asking you who you represent. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So I want good for our children, not for my children, but also for your children, regardless of the ideology and independent party membership of their parents. And I'll tell you one thing, Mr. Ilcic, I'm a believer or a believer to express myself grammatically correctly, but I prefer to show it to parts. Because as you know, Pope Francis, who is the Supreme Head of the Catholic Church, and you know it well, instead of strictness and discipline, has just taken the Catholic Church in the opposite direction, therefore by mildness, understanding, and openness. And this is by returning that teaching of Jesus, and on the contrary, the Pharisees who counted Jesus ’ steps are the great priests who resented Jesus ’ excessive liberalism. And I'm asking you, so who are you closer to?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11341	Thank you. I give my word to the esteemed attorney for the children. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11342	... To single out only two things that I think are very important. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] A colleague of Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic mentioned children in psychiatric institutions. We've got a lot of kids on psycho pharmacies, we're missing mental health prevention, we're missing child psychiatrists, we're running out of subspecies. Exactly, the department opened in Split, there are no doctors in Osijek, not enough conditions. The children are still exactly in the Lopaca, the Thieves are not an institution where children should be placed. We've been tracking some individual cases over the years. Three, four days ago, we once again, I don't know which time we asked the Croatian Health Insurance Institute how it is possible to finance the child's accommodation? We have made this clear to the Ministry of Health and to the Attorney General, and we really expect an answer. And one more thing, it must not be answered in any way because it is indeed a deep mistake in interpretation, the distinguished representative, Mr Branko Bačić, did not see a fine nuance, I would say in the rule, quite clear between criticism of the work of an institution and non-compliance with decisions. The decisions, so first I mentioned the Constitutional Court on the basis of Mrs. Mađeric's question that she would not have mentioned it, I had no need. Since she asked a colleague, I answered. So everyone is obliged in the Republic of Croatia as well as in other states that have in the constitution the Constitutional Court respects the Constitutional Court's decision but does not in any way mean that the decisions taken are not to be criticised. The gentleman asked what his colleagues would do in Germany? My colleagues in Germany write volumes, volumes, you have book libraries and scientific papers and articles related to criticism of the work of the German Constitutional Court and criticism of the work of the European Court of Human Rights. So the Germans are proud of their scientific work concerning the criticism of the Constitutional Court's decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11343	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Ladislav Ilčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11344	Madam Attorney General, even in that previous replica, I don't know who it turned out to be that you don't mind me, you don't mind criticizing your work, I guess, for as long as we speak with praise, and while we have the possibility of not being satisfied, to criticize you and to the extent that we reject the report, then you consider it a blow to your independence. That doesn't stand. So simply as the Croatian Parliament has appointed you, the same way if it is dissatisfied with your work can change you. So it's just logical, we have to put it that way no different. Because this is how it turns out that we shouldn't be critical of your work and you should be critical of the decisions of the Constitutional Court, regardless of whether they are abolishing the law or suspending the law. That's illogical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11345	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11346	... in a debate on the Constitutional Court, but let's go back again. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] So the criticism of the Constitutional Court's work is legitimate in this country, criticism of the work of the Advocates of any one is legitimate. However, and you can criticize me as much as you want, you can even raise your hand against my report, you can unvote me, you can replace me. That's not a problem at all. What I'm saying is that this de facto means that the Attorney's institution is based on such a provision of the law is not independent and I have the right to say it and you can relieve me. That's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11347	Thank you. The next is on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, the distinguished representative Jaroslav Pecnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11348	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Right at the beginning I won't be long hoping, but right away at the beginning to say that we will support this report because we consider it objective, transparent, relevant, and in fact it is a specific manifestation of the spirit, nation and society we are currently in. Of course, these social, economic, cultural implications, etc. Since a lot of things have been said here, I will limit myself to a few things, but above all, about this independence of the attorney general, all of our attorneys and then the attorneys for the children. I think that, I'm not a lawyer, but what I think would be good, and it's me that the lawyers are all actually elected for 8 years, but that they have the status of irreplaceability as constitutional judges unless, I don't know, in some things, they don't do what's contrary to all oscillations and norms. And by doing so, all those stories would then stop because they really would kill the lawyer's or the lawyer's messenger because it brings bad news, or it would analyze the specific state of society, so it warns, instead of being grateful, we actually see it as a problem. I really didn't realize to the D.A. that she was saying anything about not being criticized but simply warned of a fact which I think is also evident. Then where is the independence of that man who by nature things will bring unpleasant things to society. It's just his job. And then you, in fact, come into one situation that you actually start with some kind of self-censorship, depending on the man, act like that, because you know that a negative vote can help to change you. No one is irreplaceable, but I think this proposal that I've made would be a good way for that one, to say the independence and independence of all the lawyers. So here's so much for this. When she spoke of 5 key problems for children, the Ombudsman spoke about poverty, mistrust in the system, no support for parents, etc. And in fact, she read a small one we can say a message to all of us who have a mouthful of demographics that actually demographic policies 1000 euros, so we'll sort it out. 1,000 euros is nothing, it's not any demographic policy, it's funny because you can actually see from this what would be the essence of demographic policy and unfortunately a whole series of things here don't work. First of all, inconsistencies are, say, jurisdictional laws. If you start preschool. Preschool education is in the jurisdiction of local self-government, it is funded and standards are brought by the ministry, brought by the state. And now the one who sets the standards would be logical to pay those standards. Local self-government doesn't have the money for it. For example, Osijek is relative, let's say a bigger city, so there's some money. But if you're looking at a preschool center that's about 30, a little less kindergarten, it actually includes most of what's going on in Osijek on preschool education, then there's at least 50 teachers missing to comply with standards. That's what you tell the mayor. This guy grabs his head 'cause of course there's no money. He doesn't go crazy either. If control comes, she warns of that fact, then what do we do? So there's already one problem. And aside from the fact that in the minds of a parent, kindergartens do not serve to raise children. Of course, it's an honor for exceptions, but it's mostly for childcare. And that's one big problem too. So there's a lack of, not just an educator, a lack of logos, a defector, a psychologist, a pedagogist, whatever you want, and all of this really needs to be paid by local self-government and some pay, but then it needs to be supported by it rather than simply giving up on all of it. When we talk about this report as such, I'm a few things I find interesting, not perhaps the most important but interesting because here we are on the verge of a new election and the lawyer says that last year has been marked by parliamentary elections where actually the problem is politicians and children. Now we're going to have a re-emergence of all the things where politicians are going to be good, where they're mostly going to take pictures with children, and in themselves it's not a sin, of course. The children will be in the focus again but where is this limit that will say what abuse is, which is not abuse. I find that border very difficult to see on both legal and any other basis. The only limit I see is the limit within ourselves, in some of our moral consciousness, our conscience, and what we consider to be values, what should be done and what should not be done. But at the same time, we're politicians, so we're going to take a step further for that damn voice which is certainly not good. This, of course, seems not only about politics, but also about private interests, corporate interests, see ads, children in advertising etc.. So it's all something that's very, very controversial. The lady also referred to the protest workers' strike. It is also something that is very sensitive and that we witness that there may be a problem again. And now how and how will you actually accomplish as an educator your strike if you do not in any way "abuse" children. When I say, of course, I mean by quotes. In other words, the message you send can only be sent by stopping teaching with children. And it's said that everything must seem in the children's interest. Well, in the interests of children, there is a permanent education. But if you want to exercise your constitutionally guaranteed rights, you must use some of the means, some of the tools that you are given. What I think is only important in this whole story, and that's what didn't flossule, and that's that you shouldn't, teachers shouldn't invite kids to come to school. That's what teachers should do. And everything else is actually a legitimate means of fighting and simply because really if you look at these people's salaries, they're people who are usually highly professional and very low incomes. When we talk about the physical punishment of children, it is for educational purposes punishable. All persons employed in educational, educational, health, and religious institutions are particularly religious in a way that is in focus should be of interest not because they are religious but because they are more incarcerated by the nature of things, more incarcerated than others, so many of the things that are happening there are not actually manifested unfortunately. We've seen, and we're witnesses ourselves, we're reading a newspaper about what's going on in the world on a sexual abuse plan, which doesn't mean there aren't any in other segments, but there is one here. That's especially sensitive. If we're reading that this is happening in the world, we're part of the world, so I guess that's what happens with us. I don't want it to happen with us, but I guess the logic of things is happening with us. So it's kind of, sort of, one force of incognito that's not being touched and simply being talked about in a way. I'm going, since there's no reason, maybe everything's perfect, if everything's perfect, then great. So, all those who work in these institutions are obliged to report violence against children and according to the proposed news in the Family Protection Act are increasing the fines from 7 thousand to 10 thousand kuna, then the prison sentence of 45 days, so if the work is repeated, then the penalty increases to 15 thousand kuna and the prison sentence to 60 days. However, all of this seems rather small to me, I really am not a man who is for a firm hand, for some rigorousism but if we are in traffic doing this to really punish drivers, I very often pay the penalty so I know that it costs me in the home budget quite a lot, driving carelessly probably, but the fact is that then it means especially here where the children are concerned these penalties would have to be far more severe, far simply that the punishment itself prevents the perpetrator to the greatest extent possible to what he intends or what he will do. So when it comes to non-tolerance of violence against children, then we need to know that it's actually meant to say that if domestic violence is tolerated or anywhere else, it's actually a message to the public that violence is allowed, a legitimate means of behavior in some social groups in situations where it's physically stronger and it just needs to be eradicated because it's really an evil that exists in society. And the lawyer did, or her team was doing one of the research she's showing, and I was amazed that 37% of young people are likely to use physical punishment as parents when they're in a position to be parents. And that applies to all social economic groups. So it's not that now it's about some less education, some I don't know what to call those communities, so whether it's about the most traditional or the most liberal families, the environments. These young people tend to think that violence is allowed. Of course, when I say violence, I guess anyone who was a father or a mother, so he probably dunked his kid just that much, didn't he? But I don't think that violence is, of course, what I'm doing here is causing something to say, no, no, it can't be done, etc., probably not, but the fact is that under violence I consider something like this, something else. So psychological abuse, I'm not even talking. I also think it's very important that the D.A. warned the so-called. the children on the move, on the refugee wave, on the children we've seen and I'm afraid we'll see again when the refugee wave comes and comes to us, whether it will come to me, I don't know, but the fact is that the situation isn't promising. And I'm warning this because two things are done and what I think should be insisted on is that children who don't have parents are lost by parents, parents, parents, who know what happens to those kids given care, right, and actually one field work controls actually provide standards according to the highest international standards for those children. I'm saying this because it's often been in our newspaper, the media, and among people talking about how television deliberately shows children to actually cause empathy, pity for migrants, because then of course we're all aware of children, so when we see those eyes, poor kids that it's something that makes us kind of nice to them and they don't deserve it. I think it's a very low and very subtle way of thinking because really if the interest of children is primarily in focus we see these children so anyone who leaves their home and goes on that journey and can't decide because he has to go with their parents, we have to protect him regardless of what the background is and I believe that the background is simply a better life, an escape from war, everything that we went through 20, 30 years ago that happened in these areas. And now this one more thing, it's the so-called right to the preservation of personality and I'll just say that because I think this is about the right to sexual identity and is about the exercise of rights, the interests of children with gender dystrophy. I would actually show it through an example that is present in social networks, a planetary action against, on the subject of trans-birth where, in fact, let's say radically, extremely, conservative circles from Roman Catholic to Protestant do not rule out because there is no difference, is there, is, in fact, one action against the snow queen, the film snow queen, against Queen Elsa, I know it as a grandfather because I buy it, so I have to be referred to these things where it's actually said that in a perfiduous way, and as far as I know, Disney's production is because there's something that Queen Elsa actually wants to promote homosexualism and low human passions, and that it's actually done by the orders of the LGPT group and that actually those in some way advocate it's right because there's something she wrote that Queen Elsa actually doesn't expect the prince to love, to live forever and beautifully, but to be a soul mate. Now that bothers us. Of course, many people do, I don't know, have prejudices, stereotypes, etc. But it doesn't matter if a queen falls in love with a robot, falls in love with a monster, falls in love with anything else, but this bothers her. So I'm simply warning you of one thing, it's a very sensitive subject and it should actually be in some way, what's the danger? That, in fact, in some ways, this reality is denied, the reality that we live in, which is to accept our true birth identity. It's something that you can fight with, but it's something that determines you and it just has to be accepted. Since I am already at the end, I would just then move on to a few more technical things, and this is a proposal to increase as much research as possible on these issues, to increase the resources for the attorney and her team to work because they lack people. Of the 23 planned 16 employees working. The more you can go around institutions, childcare institutions, because it's actually some kind of control, and then you will, you won't make people take care of what they do anyway. I believe it's hard, field work a little... But it's something that actually gives me the results and that would be all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11349	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Ladislav Ilčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11350	Dear Mr. Pecnik, let's resolve this independence. So, Madam Attorney has a duty to report to us once a year. We can say if we agree, whether we're satisfied or not. So, she's kind of addicted to us, just like we can for four years, she can do parole for a year what she wants, of course, under her law of the envisaged possibilities, and after that we evaluate. Likewise, you and I, for four years during our term of office, can do whatever we want, of course within our legal assumptions, and afterwards we go to the public and they judge whether you or I will be in the Parliament again or not. And according to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, all power comes from the people. Therefore, we are addicted to the people because we are their envoys. Madam Attorney-General is dependent on that same people we judge as representatives of that people, to resolve this independence at last. Therefore, when the Advocate General complains that she, that we can, once a year, knock down her report and that it is an expression of independence, that in this way we are destroying her independence, or independence, then she simply has no right. And the other thing, when you're talking about, I wrote down a check, with radical extreme Catholic and Protestant currents that must be paranoid about two princes or two princesses. And I just have to let you know that if you study homosexual propaganda and Ilga and everything they do. Yes, they have their goals set out to promote homosexuality through children’s stories. So it's not about our paranoia, it's about their agenda. So it's just a fact. Because I want my children to read a story with two princes as a father. I don't want to. And I have a right to that. You can give your child stories with two princes and two princesses, but as a parent, I have the right to say that I don't want to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11351	Replica reply, distinguished representative Jaroslav Pecnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11352	Well, as far as the D.A. is concerned, I think it's all said and it doesn't have to be repeated, you've repeated it several times. I'm you, I am a little dumber, but I figured out what this is about. But here's my point of view. And as for what I was saying about Elsa and all that, I just wanted to make a little joke, maybe. But now you've convinced me one thing, that the imagination of moral cleaners is actually fantastic. What's falling on your head didn't even occur to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11353	Replica, the esteemed representative of Sandra Krpan.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11354	And respected lawyers and colleagues, Pecnik, in their presentation, touched the strike. I just want to point out here that I wouldn't call inappropriately inviting children not to come to class these days. You know why? Because child safety is the most important thing. It's up to the director of the facility to ensure that security. It's impossible to do that when the entire teaching council is on strike. And I wouldn't agree to invite the children not to come to class that day, that it's giving up their right to education, but it's where the teachers put the children's right to safety. I personally had very positive experiences with the unions at the time of the strike. The collective agreement stipulates that transactions should not be terminated during the strike. And I can really say in my school, the Primorian-Gorski County that we're sticking to it. The right of children to safety is much more important in these days than children's rights to end their education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11355	Replica reply, distinguished representative Jaroslav Pecnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11356	I can agree with you as much as we have indeed heard that these accommodation facilities are not exactly similar, appropriate. But I was actually talking more about another aspect. Of course, I respect what you're saying. I'm a teacher myself in the end, so I know what this is all about. But I was actually going to say that if you're already going on that strike then how can I say at least save the kids that we're just not playing games for them, come on, so here's no class. So in this sense simply to play an honest fair game. And in my speech, I was talking about it myself, that is, in my statement, that I am fully aware that it is actually very difficult for educational workers to perform a strike and that in fact, how you will, and the children are there. So, at the beginning, you have one problem and one way to say controversy, if I may say so.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11357	Thank you. Replicated representative Maria Budimir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11358	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Pecnik, here's a yes, I'll agree. The strike is the legitimate right of educational workers and, as the colleague said, the director who is not a member of the union is obliged to ensure conditions for children who come to school. And the educators who strike are bound to be in school, but they don't teach. Which means that they can sit in their classrooms or classrooms depending on the organisation of the union commissioner himself and worry about the safety of these children. And I would refer to that part of your exposure that I really couldn't agree with when you said that each of us must have hit a kid on the ass sometimes. And we know that in law every form of physical punishment is punishable, and in this assembly we should not justify it because we are thus inciting law violations. So, fellow, here's how it was 30 years ago and now the laws were different. I wouldn't agree in that part of your exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11359	Replica reply, distinguished representative Jaroslav Pecnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11360	Here I confess my sin right now, but if someone can rewrite their work or be falsely represented and become the judge of the Constitutional Court, I guess because I once banged on my son's ass I can compete for a new assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11361	Thank you. Replica, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11362	Thank you very much. Comrade Pecnik, of course, when we talk about the child counsel, you were partly right to use children in the case of a strike, when there is a protest. Of course we have to look at it from several sides. Their rights may come true, and maybe they don't come true, of course. However, the key problem, I will not enter into this world-wide part of your step-up, each has the right to democracy to present its performance that I do not have to agree with, of course, but here is the Ombudsman's message by the Constitution, mostly best for children, all children do not have all the rights in the Republic of Croatia. It is at least in these key elements of this poor society, mainly in parts of undeveloped areas, mountainous areas of our Slavonia because these children have absolutely no rights. These are weak municipalities, so municipalities and cities, local self-government that doesn't have budget funds, and that's the key. These kids don't have free textbooks, they don't have secure transportation regardless, they don't have a chance to get a vehicle because no one's interested in public tenders to get to these places at all. These kids don't have textbooks so basic, they don't have a daily marenda so they can buy something. Because these are poor areas, they are unemployed, there is the key to the problem of this social division of Croatia. It all came down to... And in major cities, the problem is, however, these areas are, there is the biggest problem of this decentralisation that has not been implemented and regional development that should be much fairer towards undeveloped areas. [[You don't understand.]] Then there's the basic key to the problem. The biggest problem of decentralisation, but mostly poorly developed areas. This regional development was an absolutely missed policy. And then it's the key to the problem, at least equally those kids that have basics so they can get to school so they can move forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11363	Replica reply, distinguished representative Jaroslav Pecnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11364	Here's a little bit. I think the prosecutor in her statement made it clear that poverty is one of the main problems and I can only agree with you on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11365	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, distinguished Vice President Milanka Opačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11366	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney, colleagues and fellow MPs. There's been a lot of talk here about the Law on Child's Attorney and his independence. I have to say since I've been in this House since '92. For years, I can see how the Ombudsman's independence was slowly collapsed. So, in the 1990s, when the first Law on the Ombudsman was passed, and when, in fact, the Ombudsman for the first time was legally defined, it is a law in which you do not have this provision that says that if a report does not pass in the Assembly that the term of attorney automatically ceases. All other lawyers, since they came after the laws on persons with disabilities and gender equality, have included that one provision that unless a report passes that they cease to be lawyers automatically. I must say, at that time, the lawyers here were saying a lot differently, it's not to be measured by today's attorneys. So here are a few more people from that time. So, we remember Ante Klaric and after him Jurica Malcic, so the two advocates of the regiment who here knew a pretty good lesson to teach for hours about what doesn't work in the state, which should and how it should be fixed. But it never occurred to anyone, never to anyone to tear you down, until now. So we let the defense attorneys all who were going to do their job to the end. So we didn't tear anyone down, you're the first Parliament majority to decide to take down, and not all the defense attorneys, but an attorney for the children, just her. I can kind of know why it's like that. I think there's a woman behind it who unfortunately put her hatred above all else, in front of her profession, in front of what she's invested all these years in university work. So her hatred for the lawyer personally is much greater all these years than brains, professions and everything else. I'm sorry that you're in HDZ right now...... theexponentsofthat kind ofhate. With hate, it's hard to pollomize because there are no arguments, it's an irrational feeling. So there are no arguments for and against. So, there's been talk here about a lot of problems kids have. Yes, there is child poverty in Croatia, we covered this child poverty with programmes through lottery funds, so through associations. However, I must also tell you that we have found a lot of parents where both parents work in the state administration, where they have a secure salary every month, and they haven't paid their children a child's allowance. So one is child poverty and not having money by parents, and the other is irresponsible parents who simply feel that their child at school should not have a warm meal. However, we also paid these children for a warm meal to make all children equal in this regard. There's been a lot of talk about questioning children in court. So, if I remember correctly from the period when I was dealing with Mr Orsat Milenic, who was the minister of justice of that part of the ZKP, there is one provision under which the judge is obliged to provide an examination of the child through videolink. Unfortunately, most judges don't do it, they don't do it because they don't want to. We've been sending instructions, we've been sending instructions in a way that it's good to use all of this here, so every police station has practically one room of European funds equipped for questioning in one place by an investigative judge and, therefore, with the help of all those who need a statement from a child and with the help of a child who can at the age of four, five, eight years, so in an appropriate way, ask questions that they are not suggestive, that no pressure is being put on the child. And what is most important is that the child is not traumatized because it is traumatized by the fact that sexual violence has been committed against him, then it is further traumatized by several studies. But it really goes to the judges. So whatever provision you put in, I'm someone who's been pushing for it for years, but I haven't been able to because the judges under the Constitution are untouchable, absolutely untouchable, you can't impose anything on them, you can write a hundred laws, a hundred deadlines inside they'll continue to implement their own because they don't have any sanctions. And those who don't care about children who don't care about children don't want to move from their chair to any police station in their place and question that child through a video link without traumatizing him and thinking a little bit about him and his interests. What we've done and what I'm seeing now is coming down again from pure anger and what I've said to the irrational sense of hatred for everything the government has done with the SDP is the Family Law in which we first hired a special care center for children and people deprive themselves of their business abilities. So, for the first time, we have free counsel for the children. So far, according to the Social Care Centre's decision, lawyers have been paid for it, but mostly because of the low tariffs, and because of a certain lack of feeling for children most often, lawyers have not come to litigation and have not done what our special guardians are doing at the moment, which is that they are fighting exclusively for the interests of children. Now for the first time, we have a situation where special guardians even ask children what they think about the moment they find themselves in a court dispute, for the first time. It happens that parents are divorcing, bickering over the back of a child and no child is asking how they feel or what the child wants, and on the other hand, lawyers who have been writing lawsuits against the new Family Law wrote it because we actually took their job, we took their money and are most sensitive to it because they no longer go to court, can no longer wage war with two partners who argue in the divorce of marriage but simply there is an independent institution and an independent custodian who enters the court dispute exclusively as the child's protector and defends exclusively his interests. So it's not the parents' interests, it's not the interests of the adults, it's the interests of the child. As far as I can see, it is also an effort to collapse, in the budget the funds are reduced by 70% for the work and activity of the Centre for Special Care, but you HDZ gentlemen can choose whether to pay out of the pockets of citizens of the European Court of Human Rights or to finance the Centre for Special Care. And you have to decide whether you care about children and people who are deprived of their business skills or whether you care about simply breaking certain laws. And those who spoke about the Constitutional Court's counter-constitutional decision to bring down the constitutional law again tell you the truth, that's not true, the constitutional law has been suspended until the Constitutional Court decides what is unconstitutional in it. So nothing was decided by the Constitutional Court that was against the constitution. I see instructions are given on the phone, so apparently the people I touched are watching this transmission and I'm glad to give instructions to hear what some MPs are about to say about what I said. So as for some other rights that, of course, make children sick, it's a lot of gray zones. Mrs. Petrijevcanin spoke here about those who are in something we call a pedophile register, so persons who are convicted of sexual abuse of children, but that is one very small percentage. Unfortunately, a much larger percentage is those we don't know about, who are around us today sexually molesting children, unfortunately are not in that register, and it's very difficult to detect. So that's one and I'd say a much bigger problem than what you're saying here. So there's a register of convicted pedophiles, but he absolutely can't protect us from finding someone to work with children again, because unless he's convicted of such an act, unfortunately, we'll get through somehow under the grain and I don't know who exists at all, so nowhere in the world have they found any absolute mechanism that could therefore fully protect children other than education. So we can only educate children, work with them, talk to them about what and how I can lurk them from the internet that is available to children today, why they can't let anyone touch them in their private parts of the body, why they can't have their photos where they're half-naked or dressed scarcely on the Internet, so on their facebook pages. So only education can help us to keep our children from falling into the midst of sexual abusers, and unfortunately everything else is not enough. So, at this point, we'll see what happens tomorrow with the vote on the child's attorney's report, but according to what we've heard here from the people who have spoken from the HDZ club here, the child's attorney will get a red light, and I'll repeat once again that the reason is that you've extended the hand of those who are counting with, but personally with Mrs. Ivana Milos Klaric because this report doesn't depart by a millimeter from all those reports that were here last year, nor her work in any way departing from any of the other defenders we've been behind all these years. And Mrs Ivana Milas Klaric passed by in this House, she is a university professor of Law School in Zagreb and therefore red light can be from completely different initiatives but not because she has not done her job properly and protected children.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11367	Replica esteemed representative Nada Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11368	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mrs. Opačić, I'm really surprised now with your replica of how much you're longing for, with your debate, with how long you've been longing for in your debate, I won't, neither will I, I'll try not to use hard words but you've gone very unfounded with heavy accusations exclusively towards the Croatian Democratic Community club. So I wonder if we have any right to criticise, if we have any right to debate at all. You know in advance that we led and influenced by a person's hatred and then we'll be so full of anger, hatred and rationale doing what I don't know about what's likely to be related to this Attorney General's Office report. I don't know where you got this information team more that the debate on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club wasn't even an approach in which only you have the right to an opinion, only you have the right to criticise, I don't think it's good. We really won't agree on much, we won't agree on social policy, on family policy. But I think we should agree that in this Croatian Parliament we have the right to express our views especially if they are decent, polite and chosen words. I must honestly admit that one moment I thought that the vice president would react to that amount of hate, the words of hatred that were directed to us and I mean really for no reason. I wonder who hates it so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11369	Thank you. Replicated Vice President Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11370	So it never occurred to me to say that you have no right to debate, Parliament serves to debate. I even told you that back in the '90s, when I was here, I was a representative of the civil defenders much more strongly debated and much more told us here about what was wrong and gave us lessons, many of them than it is today. These lawyers are all nice compared to what we had here before because they felt much better and safer than they are now. That's why they could say that. Unfortunately, after politics, what I've told you a little bit together has led to the fact that politics actually has a key in its hands, not defenders who should have their own independence. As far as what I was saying, I was simply listening to your MPs so far and nothing else. I was just listening to them. So two people here said that all the lawyers stayed, that the kids would most likely get a negative grade and we'd see it tomorrow at the vote. I was just listening, nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11371	Thank you. Replica is a respected representative of Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11372	Thank you very much. Comrade Opačić, you said that we HDZ are showing hatred for the lawyer. I don't know if you're aware of what you said. Hate is the strongest form of disdain for someone. Hate is actually contempt for someone. She's a human feeling... A negative feeling of one expressed antipathy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Tell me, which one of us did you see that feeling? Name and last name. You said we were all here to show that hatred. Who'd you notice that with? And you know what causes hate. Sometimes envy, sometimes jealousy, sometimes unrequited love. Well, don't you think that, Professor? The brave and me or any of us here have insomnia because of the unrequited love of the defense attorney? I don't, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11373	Replicated Vice President Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11374	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm glad you finally spoke that name. Yes, Dubravka Brave is a person who simply became angry because she was not in the Family Law Working Group did everything to bring this Family Law down twice. And I'm glad someone here said that the President of the Constitutional Court, Jasna Omey, didn't get a third term because of that. Because, you know, I'm going to go back to those years that were much better, they were wary, they were hard, but by morality and values in politics they were much better. The years in which opinions were set out in the Constitutional Court when some decisions were made. That's been gone for the last 10 years. As the policy dictates, the constitutional judges vote. And here you know exactly who did the Family Law suspension and on whose behalf. For the sake of the lobby, the lawyer. For the benefit of a lawyer's lobby.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11375	Thank you. Replica is Irena Petrijevcanin Vukasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11376	Thank you very much. Let's get back to the metrics. So I agree with part of your presentation where you said education is very important. But what was my intensities is therefore the recent case in Varazdin is that the penalties in the Penal Code for paedophiles are embarrassingly low. The legal minimum for sexual abuse and child exploitation, as far as I'm concerned, is 1-5 years old. And be careful in which cases, in cases where the perpetrator of the family, in cases of severe abuse, so severe injuries to the child and in cases where several perpetrators committed this crime against the child. I mean, five years is really embarrassing. And in the event of the death of a child after that crime, so to speak, the minimum is ten years to a maximum of 40 years. Is that appropriate? Has anyone in Croatia ever received a maximum sentence? Not that I know of. It should also not be allowed to impose probationary penalties on perpetrators of the child's sexual abuse and that's what I meant when I talked about concrete amendments to the law, education that, in fact, education is a preventive measure, these are concrete measures in legislation. And when you said there were no cases of countries, I'm not well, I don't know how you said it again exactly. There are good examples, of course, that it is impossible to eradicate it but there are examples where abusers therefore go to psychiatric treatment when they are already recorded as abusers because they often repeat these crimes because they even deny the doing of these acts because they do not see that this is a crime. There are cases where the pedophile register is public, so where it's constantly supplementing, and that's what we need to strive for. Of course, we can't stop everything, but we can do maximum prevention.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11377	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished Vice President Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11378	I'll start with this last one, so where are the pedophiles registers public. So we always have to think about that sometimes they have children of their own. Therefore, it would be further traumatizing their children who cannot be held accountable for their parents ’ crimes, and so much is thought in other countries of simply reducing the public because it does not accomplish much except the trauma of these children who are neither guilty nor debtor. The registry serves those who need to hire people who see it. I can agree with you that in legislation you can always do more. But my question is, why do our judges give the lowest sentences? Why don't they give the highest sentence? There are some I would say silent arrangements in some countries to give the most punishments, to impose the most penalties precisely because it is a message from society that this is unacceptable behavior. Why don't our people do it? I don't know. They obviously don't have much hearing for other children unless it's theirs and I think that one thought that's quite conservative in our society. That's the same thing about rape women. That's part of the people, what'd you do to them? Why were you wearing a short skirt? So, you're looking for an excuse for that instead of punishing really drastically whoever's doing this kind of crime. And when I was talking about no absolute child protection mechanisms. You were actually talking about abusers. Yeah, they're working outside, there's psycho-treatment in prisons, prisons are working so they won't be repeaters when they get out, but unfortunately there's not one of those absolute protective mechanisms to protect children from being the victim of some pedophile somewhere, except for the education of children that they know how to protect themselves. That's all I wanted.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11379	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Ana Comparić Devčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11380	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Members, you said at the very end that tomorrow we'd have a chance to see how the HDZ colleagues would vote, will or won't support the lawyer, and that they actually decided to replace the child counsel. I claim that they decided to replace the prosecutor for gender equality only they failed because they failed to raise the majority in this House. They managed to raise the majority for the attorney general, and they didn't choose a new lawyer for people with disabilities. So, she's got a mandate, we don't have it right now, and I hope to the mind and common sense of our colleagues, and tomorrow she won't have a majority for a child's lawyer who's doing a great job and who's warning us about the real state of children's rights in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11381	Replica reply, distinguished Vice President Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11382	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues Devčić, I also hope that tomorrow I will not be enough to vote in a negative opinion on this report precisely because this report will once again fail not once again for a millimeter in quality compared to all previous opinions, i.e. reports that have received support in this House, as neither the attorney's work nor the millimeter in relation to all the attorneys who have done the job in accordance with the law and protected children's rights. So, the lawyers have in some way broad powers but they have limited power of action because many parts of the government will once again refer to the judiciary here as Mrs. Petrijevcanin, whom I think cancer is wounded by Croatian society in all respects, so when it comes to children and the protection of their rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11383	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Margareta Majeric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11384	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honored also vice president of the Croatian Parliament. Believe me, I really don't need anyone calling me on my cell phone to give me instructions about your work. I don't like it when you were Minister of Social Policy and Youth. In fact, you will remain in the Croatian public when the principals of schools, teachers and teachers simply cried out, as well as the media when they started that avalanche to have many hungry children in Croatia. You tried to say something about it not having ironed out your disastrous statement by which you remained recognizable when you dead coldly stated, no, we don't have hungry children in Croatia, possibly if someone is hungry then it's Roma, so it's embarrassing. And your second statement that you feel as if you are living on a minimal means how socially sensitive you are and how much you have actually had both hearing and understanding for all and especially for those for whom you are very much now and today while you were a minister you were supposed to care about and these are people who are hard to live, who have the lowest incomes in Croatia and who barely make ends meet from month to month. And about the Family Law. So who could believe that Professor Hrabar mentioned her by counterpart Maric ununited. So, the Family Law and it's the only real truth. Suspension due to an unbearable large number of applications, the Constitutional Court suspended it. It is impossible for both Caritas and NGOs, that Neva Tole, Sanja Sarnavka and Željka Markić had united in that part and that they were all under the influence of Professor Hrabar against the family law. The only real truth is that the law was unquality, that you didn't prepare it well, and that's why he was suspended. But it's obviously hard to admit the truth. But I'll leave it to you. And as for hatred, please tell anyone who hates it, and speak with names and names.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11385	Time. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11386	Dear Mr. Vice President, I believe that my colleague Majeric hurt his Rules of Procedure in Article 238 where she abused the replicas institute to degrade or insult other MPs in this case, Col. Opačić. I think that in this Croatian Parliament, my colleague Mađeric can, of course, give his court on the work of the former minister of social policy and youth who did her job as best as she knew and did, there have been some mistakes. But she never wanted anyone dead.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11387	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Margareta Mađeric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11388	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I believe that my colleague, Glasovac, has injured the Rules of Procedure, Article 238, and I therefore call on you, on the basis of Article 239, to give her a warning because she actually replied to me in response to a replica she did not have a business right. And this is among other things a violation of the Rules of Procedure done by Mrs. Representative and I ask you to give her a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11389	I beg you, therefore, mostly everyone, not to say almost everyone or everyone goes off topic and agenda at all points and in the debate. I always like to point out that you should interrupt everyone in the debate, a report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2015. And everyone, look at your discussions, you're all going off topic. I implore you and appeal to you, to your conscience and to the seriousness of your work to adhere to the subject. But don't go off topic and the same when it comes to hurting the Rules of Procedure. Replicated Vice President Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11390	Mr. Vice President, I will return to the topic of course because, according to this statement, I simply have no intention of descending to that level of Mrs. Mađeric. So, I'd like to say what's related to the Family Law. So, the Family Law will only show how good it is or isn't good. Once again, I will say the Constitutional Court did not decide constitutionality, decided and came out of its legal framework. He shouldn't have suspended the law because there's no legal basis for it. So far, we have been paying extremely large amounts for lawsuits in the European Court of Human Rights because the Family Law was not in line with conventions that we have signed in order for years, but we have not brought the Family Law into line with it. For the first time, the Family Law is in line with this and indeed time will show how good the Institutes of Family Law are and how not. I hope that the new Constitutional Court will really read the Family Law and address whether something inside is written in accordance with the Constitution or not. And if it is not, neither the first nor the last law to experience these improvements in the Croatian Parliament according to what the Constitutional Court will give as a guideline. And so, I think the Family Law put children in the centre for the first time and protection of children's interests. So far, this is not what the Family Law had, none of these mechanisms that I was talking about here, nor the Centre for Special Care, nor the parental plan under which more than 90% of marriages have been divorced in the last year. If you think people have to divorce with help, that a lawyer who's been squirming both them and the children in court for three years to earn their wages, then gentlemen, return the old Family Law. I think it's bad for kids. And I think this system where two parents who have agreed to have children, so when they get divorced, they have the right to agree that they will take care of these children together, that this is a much better way than to drag them through court and children.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11391	Time. Replicated representative Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11392	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Opačić, you expressed in your statement on behalf of the club a concern that a negative opinion on the report on the work of the Ombudsman for children might actually be expressed tomorrow, and what would be the basis of Article 25. The Labour Act, i.e. on the Ombudsman for children, was the basis for her shift, i.e. for the completion of her term of office before the end of the term of office itself. Honestly, I don't see any argument as to why anyone in this assembly would give a negative opinion on this report. First of all, this report makes it clear that the Ombudsman was protecting and fulfilling all those obligations that the law had given her in the work, that she had protected, followed, and promoted the rights and interests of children. In the end, regardless of our debate here in the Croatian Parliament which can be critical, they can also be negative, but the Ombudsman must act independently and independently. This is the case in Article 2(3) of the Law. No one shall give her instructions or orders in her work. It must not belong together with its deputies to any political party or to take part in political activities. So her mandate stems from this House, but her cooperation and her task is to cooperate with children, with their parents and protect children's rights. And this House cannot be trafficked through its debates into someone who needs to get a doctorate, give any instructions and orders for its work so that it can be auto-censored in its reports, depending on who has the majority in the Croatian Parliament, no matter at any time which option is owned by the majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11393	Replica reply, distinguished Vice President Milanka Opačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11394	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Members of the Voice when you spoke about whether this report will be voted tomorrow or not by the majority I hope that there will not be enough hands in this Parliament tomorrow to vote against this report and thus change the Ombudsman for children because it would be one precedent. So far, none of the attorneys and attorneys have been removed, all of them have completed their mandate. Secondly, I concluded it on the basis of some replicas from the HDZ club where one advocate said that the prosecutor could not possibly vote the report because she dared to criticise the Constitutional Court and say anything against any decision of the Constitutional Court. Which doesn't mean the Constitutional Court decisions aren't respected. And secondly, where the list of attorneys stayed, and then it was said of the child's attorney we'll see about her tomorrow. So, I'm just listening.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11395	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative of Ladislav Ilčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11396	Dear Mrs. Opacic, I think this debate would be both the calmest and most effective and most effective if it really were based on arguments. It's not just you now, it's Ms. Irene Petrievcanin Vuksanovic and Mr. Pecnik. When I talked about her talking about ideological divisions and putting on stories about ideological divisions at the beginning as an unargumented and useless debate afterwards I heard that Mrs Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic was talking about strictness and mildness, she asked me if I was closer to Christianity or Phariseeism etc. I really wouldn't want to burden myself with that, I'd like her to tell me what I specifically said wrong about the subject. The same thing when I asked Mr. Pecnik about it when I said that I wouldn't want my kid reading a story with two princes he smiled not to say smiled and said that how he said he dreamed of everything coming to mind. And now here I really don't know what to say right now. And as far as you're concerned, this idea means that because of your relationship with Professor Brave, who I know wasn't very good and that she's criticized you and your work a lot, that you're projecting it on us now, and that I guess we all, all of us, what we're talking about is the work of a child counsel based on what Mrs. Brave said and her hatred for the lawyer really isn't true. Here I am telling you that I haven't really heard from Professor Brave about this subject at all, nor have we ever talked about this subject and that I'm talking about it based on what I think. So all of these insinuations, especially when you say a sentence about who did the Family Law suspension, it's very painful because it turns out that someone can do the suspension. It means that the Constitutional Court is subject enough to some lobbyists to carry out the suspension. And this expresses disrespect, or disrespect, of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11397	Replica reply, distinguished Vice President Milanka Opačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11398	After all I've said here, I'm still standing, and as far as tomorrow's vote is concerned, the report and the arguments you're going to make, I'll listen carefully and I'll see if you vote against what reasons you'll be against.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11399	Thank you. We're breaking up. We'll continue at 9.30 tomorrow. (CHAPTER DISCONTINUED IN 17.05 HOURS)
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11400	Good morning, colleagues and colleagues. I'm asking you to take our seats and get on with today's work. We will continue with the point with which we started yesterday, so I will pray that on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the word will be taken by the distinguished representative Margareta Mađeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11401	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11402	My colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to shut up and let my colleague Mađeric say what he wants.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11403	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear MPs, MPs, the Honorable Madam Attorney, we continue to discuss the report on the Ombudsman for the children. The report, among other things, states that since 1456 applications received in 2015, the largest number has been related to infringements of the personal rights of children, including the most reported as among others in 2014 related to issues of parental care and violence against children and child neglect. As a special feature of work in 2015, the report highlighted two problems the office encountered, a teacher's strike at the beginning of the school year, and the problems of the migrant children, so the children in the movement through the refugee wave were also found in the Republic of Croatia. The report is certainly drawn up according to the standards of graphic professions and statistical rules. However, what I am truly interested in as representatives is what is really important and that is content other than a representative appearance. Whether the Ombudsman’s report for children or any other Ombudsman should be one, of course, sophisticated statistical report but it should certainly be such a document as to make those to whom it relates, those who will be called and those who have not fulfilled their legal obligations to children. This report consists of a little bit of everything, so we have little information on development rights, little about poverty, little about family rights, little about poverty, little about family and justice protection, about international cooperation, about the principle of child's best interest and the participation of the Ombudsman in international conferences on these issues, little of course about media violations of child rights, recommendations, sports and participation of children in sport. When reading this report, as I said, we have individual parts, but we have no concrete measures so as to get the impression that the report was actually written under the Convention on the Rights of the Child, so it can then be said that we covered everything a little bit but there is nothing decisive and concrete. First of all, what we want to do here is to identify the attorney general's identity. I will briefly remind you that here, before Madam Attorney, we had two attorneys, one had been on duty for two years, and in that time, with her actions, statements and advocates exactly on the subject, for the rights, human rights of children, she drew attention to the children and the most important issues that apply to children. Of course, in that very beginning, a difficult job has been done in setting up an office. Then the full term of office of former Ombudsman Ms. Mile Jelavic was set up in 8 years, which also laid a solid foundation for the institution's activities, a structure was established, many programmes and projects among other things became a member of the European Children's Attorney General and a network of Southeast European lawyers was established. The issue of central and regional offices has also been resolved. And after that, the coming of you, Madam Attorney-General, of course, was expecting a new power and something new in the work and operation of that institution, especially regarding the currentity and time we are in. You were also expected to draw attention to some phenomena and deal with some of them. What's this new value you brought to the office on your arrival? I think we can discuss it today. For some important questions about children, for example, it is not good. beyond institutional care, peer violence, a case where a child is, for example, a child. said professor in Split. For reference experts and media conversations on these matters are called former lawyers, lawyers, representatives of associations, and not the current advocate for children we have. What Mrs. Attorney General saw most of you in the media, and during 2014 was when you defended the Family Law of the Proposer of the then Ministry of Social Policy and Youth. According to the report, the lawyer worked, attended schools, prisons, institutions, social care, homes, country events, and abroad. The flyers were printed about the dangers of begging children, a child who is the conflicting divorce of his parents should be helped to overcome difficulties and stress. There is a dispute between the judicial authorities, and yesterday in the debate we could hear in the decision that the whole procedure should certainly be accelerated in the best interests of the child. It is very important to protect the privacy of children who are often particularly threatened in such procedures, often being abused in campaigns, advertising but also political and harmful that when children testify to violence they should respect the children’s opinion in a court procedure that is decided solely on their child’s fate. What is seen in this report are the terms, it should be noted that, should measures be taken within the jurisdiction, it is recommended, the flyer was printed, but unfortunately Mrs. Milas Klaric, Ms. Attorney General, too many conferences, visits and too many general claims and there are no concrete measures related to the safety, status and better child care. I'm not sure, I believe it's my personal impression that most children in Croatia know who the child's lawyer is. I did a little survey in some of my environments, they didn't know until they were, like, an example. They knew a phone number where they could report violence against children, which is good and positive. The Advocate is not the State Statistics Office, the Ombudsman is the person whose voice must be heard. The one who's wondering, and the one whose interventions are the ones who are the ones who violate children's rights. Today, we are discussing whether the Ombudsman justified these very references. What we discussed yesterday, and I will say very briefly today about this, the Attorney General was a member of the Working Party in the construction of the Family Law in 2014 which the Constitutional Court suspended for the insufferable number of objections relating to all parts of the law. What I'm interested in, I asked yesterday I didn't get an adequate answer. Why did you, Madam Advocates, refuse to be part of a new task force and participate in the construction of a new Family Law although Article 8. The Law on the Ombudsman for children is prescribed that the Ombudsman may participate in the process of drawing up draft draft rules relating to children's rights or governing issues of importance for children. So in the last government when there was another set that had most of it both in the government, so in the ministry, it was okay for you to participate in making such a law and now you don't want to. Your statement should be strong, clear, unequivocal and not general and should be included in the making of all regulations and laws concerning children's rights, regardless of which authority or which furniture has the majority in both the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government. Also a major problem is the problem of media violations of children's rights. In addition, you also touched on your report. Which you are, for example, specifically. Taken about the publication of photos of the child on social networks and it is important to follow the recommendations of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data here. And I want to know why there's no recommendation on that part in the report. Also what I would like to hear in today's answers to our presentations if you receive children in your office in which days anyone talks to children, in which way the office of the child's attorney is available to those for whom there are children. The report also discusses the child’s right to participate in family matters. In which way this is achieved in particular in Croatia. Do the courts have family departments? Have you recommended family courts or family departments, do these courts have working psychologists who could help a judge learn the will of a child about what a child wants, what a child’s will is? Unfortunately, there are no psychologists, or so on. a child friendly room in courts and I think that you should have more and in that part influenced as a guardian for children in order to protect the best interest of the child in court proceedings. You're also talking about family-law protection measures. Family care supervisors have been bleeding all month in troubled family situations for 500 kuna a month, not to mention that during the former term of office of the government and the rest of the ministry, that fee was 100 kuna a month, and I think that your vote should have been raised against it. The report also discusses the participation of the child and special custodians in the process representing that child within the framework of the Centre for Special Care established by the Family Law, which you have participated in the construction of among other things. Dear Madam Attorney, distinguished MPs and MPs, what I said in the report that we discussed yesterday afternoon, I believe that this debate will continue here in that tone today. I think there should have been a lot more concrete measures, that the attorney general had to hear a lot more especially in the protection of children's rights. We all love each other, everyone always likes to call on children, to the best interests of the child, that children are our future, and I just think that today we need to discuss the problems of children, problematize, point out what is not good, because if we are critically discussing this report does not mean, it does not mean that this is a secular debate but is already justified and I believe that in meeting the objectives set out in the Law on the Ombudsman for children and child protection should not be subject to any ideology or any politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11404	Thank you very much. Your exposure has caused quite a number of replicas. She's the first one to be a respected representative of Jaroslav Pecnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11405	Dear colleagues. You say in your presentation, that there are no concrete measures with the Ombudsman for children, that it is invisible, that you expected more to point to new trends, new phenomena, and in any case I can kind of agree with you that it might be more in some way but what you're saying is that there's actually too much going around. Well, I just think that field work is the essence of the attorney's work simply because its very appearance makes it kind of a way of saying the seriousness of those who do it, to do it the right way. It also seems to me that this is in fact your exposure is simply programmed and this is an indicator of how the attorney actually doesn't work because you mentioned Family Law that has nothing to do with this, how it doesn't actually do its job properly and that there's actually one basis for a negative opinion that you, as a majority of the Parliament, are going to vote in the first place, right? It's just like the D.A.'s regiment. Why are you doing this? That's what you know, I don't know, but obviously the intention of destruction is, and especially this one of yours was a bad ingenuity as you did your research. So you're a private surveyor, and you've concluded that no one knows about the lawyer. Here I am, I'll dare do a survey in my town of Osijek among HDZ people to know if they know who Mrs. Mađeric is, I'm sure they won't know who Ms. Margareta Mađeric is.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11406	Thank you very much. They will respond to the distinguished representative Margareta Mađeric, so that I would ask that in my replicas, in their statements, etc. We stay away from each other's personal qualifications in any way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11407	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, Mr. Pecnik, I'm calling you and not tomorrow because it's rain forecast, next Saturday on the deck, and we're going to conduct a survey of who of Zagreb knows who Mr. Pecnik is, and we're going to have coffee, and then we're going to do a survey together. As far as the survey is concerned, I didn't say the survey, but in my private environment, so I have two little children and their friends. I asked the kids if you knew who your attorney was. I'm right about that. But let's go back to reacting and not reacting. So here are the honourable MPs and MPs, so show that you are Democrats and that you are parliamentary and let me express my views and opinions. I don't think the attorney's response was sufficient, and the latest example was yesterday when you said publicly during your presentation and during your reply to the replica here as Parliament's representative and the messages from the MPs certainly have a weight that it's normal to slap a child. I think it's scandalous and it's particularly scandalous that the Ombudsman didn't react because the Family Law forbids any form of physical punishment of children and, in general, at least here we should send me a clear message that violence is illegal, that it's a completely wrong way of acting. So how will those who are subject to violence look at us MPs and MPs when you've said that it's normal to slap a child? It's scary to me. The D.A. was supposed to react immediately to your statement yesterday.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11408	Thank you very much. Please let us not communicate by shouting from the bench but by giving the opportunity for the next replica and it will be the distinguished representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11409	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow Members, you have asked constructive questions for a debate where we should discuss parliamentary representatives and have an obligation to discuss it, and also the Director would have to give her answers to these questions for the sake of the public to know what it is. You said that the lawyer supported and agreed to the Family Law and even that she was a member of a working group that was rejected, the Constitutional Court refused, so she refused to give a passing assessment that she was anti-constitutional, so. It's a question to discuss. For me, this is new information as a parliamentary representative because I think your debate was focused in the right direction to talk about being a problem, what the lawyer was doing, didn't do good or bad, and I expect the lawyer to answer these questions. I also believe that much more should have been heard from the voice of the rights of children from locals, which I said yesterday from local self-government which are underdeveloped areas where children, elementary school children have the right to textbooks, parents do not have while in the rich environments children have. I didn't quite hear that voice, maybe she reacted but I didn't hear it but the fact that it's a violation of the Constitution, that children have rights, elementary school students, certain other children have, that some schools have organised cascades for children, others don't, means the inequality of children on all issues and much louder and that's the role of killing lawyers to make it much louder on children. However, the debate came down, both yesterday and today, on some things worldly-ideologically deliberated, and this should be discussed of course. However, these are a lot of social categories is a much more important problem and a much more sensitive problem for these undeveloped children, i.e. Mountain-mounted areas. Since I come from these parts I know what this is about, I know that these children and these families have been disfigured from all levels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11410	Thank you. The distinguished representative Margareta Majeric will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11411	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, I absolutely agree with you on everything you've said. Surely the interest of children must be ahead of any policy and secular debates, and therefore my debate has just been specifically focused on what I do not think is good in the report. And of course I commended what I think is good. I also agree with you in particular you must hear the voice and problems of children from small areas, from islands, areas of municipalities, towns where you have not organized for children stay at school, where children cannot attend kindergarten. Because children born in large cities must not be privileged. In all of Croatia, all children must have equal rights and I rightly believe that this is between the other role and the Ombudsman, to be loud in the effort for these children, every child in Croatia, no matter where they live and where they were born, to have equal rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11412	Thank you very much. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11413	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Mađeric, at the beginning of your debate, you said first that this report was made correct, that it respects all the rules as the report is done. And then you looked back on the contents of this report and you said that you were actually bothered by the content, and then you explained what was bothering you on behalf of the HDZ Club. But we haven't heard about the content, but we've heard a political story about how well the Ombudsman was known in public and whether she was actually public with political views. That's how I realized it. You also later said very clearly in your debate, and it seems to me that it is the basis of your disagreement and, in fact, the desire and the desire to remove the lawyer from this place where she is. You said that she was involved in making the Family Law and that it was her main one, so I figured out the crime scene. As you can see, the current minister, Ms Bernarda Juretic, sent to social centres, sent an inquiry to the welfare centres. And you know, they've all made themselves known positively in the provisions of the Family Law. There are institutions in this society and there are behavioural protocols. So are schools. I don't know if I understand correctly that you've criticised the attorney general's going to school, the facility. I think that's the best way. The D.A. there must see if there are clear protocols regarding child behavior especially in the sphere of peer violence and all other violence. So the Family Law has brought a lot of order into that sphere. Of course, there are colleagues here who know a lot more about it. They'll probably tell you in their replicas. But I want to point out again what happened before we talked about the Attorney General's report. So she's not a politician and don't turn this into a political debate. Say it loud and clear what you disagree with, but you can't ask her to come out as a politician. Because her role wasn't, that's what my colleague Leko was thinking last time, not to look out the window at what's going on in society so he could react rather than act on his applications. Its role in this society is clear, and in this sense it is also necessary to valorise its work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11414	Thank you. The distinguished representative Margareta Majeric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11415	Thank you, Mr. Representative. You're just politicizing and vehemently discussing. All those who listened to the debate could see a series of questions I expect to answer and who had absolutely nothing to do with the world’s horizon, nor with any of us’s political belongings, nor with the Ombudsman’s neutrality, but have already been linked exclusively to the position of children’s rights. And as for family law and colleagues Bulj has set up, and even in politics when everything is considered possible, but I think it's definitely impossible what he's trying on your part, on the SDP side, to present, that the family law is suspended for political reasons. So, he was suspended in the Constitutional Court because of a huge number of objections and could not simply reconcile it all. And do you think it's possible it's a political reckoning? So this Family Law united the impossible both left and right and non-governmental associations and professions and social workers. So do you think that Željka Markic and Sanja Sarnavka have agreed to destroy family law together to make a mistake with the SDP? Well, I really can't believe that would be possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11416	Thank you very much. The next replica will be the respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11417	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague. Every time we discuss the defense attorneys and the roles of the attorney general, I have the feeling that those on your side of the assembly who discuss it or choose not to know or really do not know what the role of the lawyer is. I think that civil education in our schools, which is planned through the reform you're so successful in, would actually enable children to know who the child's guardian is, to allow them to know what she's doing and when and how they can address her. Or maybe it would help you, too. Because the role of counsel like my colleague used to say before me is not political. She is the Commissioner of the Croatian Parliament who needs to help us make new legislation so that they are as high-quality as possible and that they protect one of the most vulnerable groups of our society, and these are our children. The report is correct in my opinion and it should be our star guide in this particular work. As far as the media visibility of the attorney general is concerned, but I'm also talking about the child counsel. I can now list how many media advances have been given to you by the attorney general, the attorney general, the lawyer for disabled persons, and how far this has broken through to the media, and unfortunately it is not up to the attorneys or us, but to the editors of certain media. And unfortunately, the lawyers didn't accept the subject. And until that changes, until we all work on it, it won't change. Otherwise, the Ombudsman is very actively involved in the work of the Committee on Human Rights and its contribution to all legal acts, and many are passing through that committee, it is immeasurable. And besides, if you are concerned about the use of children for propaganda purposes, especially for political reasons why you didn't care when some political parties brought children to stage pre-election meetings and these sick children and used them for propaganda purposes. That didn't bother you, then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11418	Thank you very much. The distinguished representative Margareta Majeric will respond, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11419	Thank you. Mr. Representative, for propaganda purposes, if you were here yesterday at the Parliament's meeting, then you would hear and problem yourself in general about the appearance of children for propaganda purposes and so on in political action. And there's something that's actually been said to me that everyone's been using a lot, and that's what your party used and used in election campaigns. But I don't think that's a question right now because I'd like to have this report on the work of a child's attorney focus on real problems. And with that part, your replica towards my presentation actually says that you in most things and you agree with what I said. The role of the lawyer is that her statement must be strong, clear, unequivocal that she must be undetermined, that the lawyer's voice must be heard and not heard enough. You said it yourself. You've found another excuse why that is. I think that's why there's a parliamentary debate to see what the problem is. Because there's obviously a problem. And you've made it very difficult for the child's attorney to be seen and that the children don't really know who their lawyer is.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11420	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ladislav Ilčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11421	Dear colleagues Mađeric spoke yesterday about the need for continuity of the functioning of the state institutions, so I would only mention the previous prosecutor Milo Jelavic, whom I must say I have had many criticisms about her work and even she had over 80 objections to the Family Law. The current lawyer, when she came to her post, lifted all those 80 and some objections. I don't know where this continuity is, did that former child counsel make it all up, was it pure fiction, or was it just reasoned remarks? I can't help but believe that there was a bias in the current prosecutor's office since she wrote, or participated in a working group of the family law suspended by the Constitutional Court. I therefore believe that, at that moment, the attorney-general, current Mrs. Milas Klaric, acted impartially. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11422	Thank you very much. The distinguished representative Margareta Majeric will respond, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11423	Thank you. That's exactly what I was arguing about. In fact, the current lawyer was also a member of the Working Party for the Making of Family Law. After the suspension of the family law of 2014 The family law which was therefore suspended on 12 January 2015 and imagine in early February 2015 the new Family Law was on the Ministry's website. So how if it really was a new law, which is impossible, how could this new Family Law be defended? Because is it possible to write nearly 600 new articles in 10 days? No, it's not possible. And the D.A. continued to defend this new Family Law. And why am I, and I here, troubled by the Family Law? Because I believe that the Family Law should be adopted unanimously, such as the first and second Family Law adopted in the Croatian Assembly because its application is extremely important, and what should be the most important children's rights. And surely we must be unique here beyond any political or other interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11424	Thank you very much. The next replica is the distinguished MPs Ana Komaraić-Devčić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11425	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, dear colleagues, we've been discussing here all afternoon and saying that your only goal is to try to replace a child's attorney like you tried to replace a lawyer for gender equality. You've assured us that we'll just see, that's not so, but from your presentation today, it's quite clear to everyone where you're taking this debate. And the only reason and the basic reason is not the work of a lawyer who's visible, invisible, she hasn't worked, she's done, with a lot of recommendations, a little recommendation or I don't know what's bothering you family law. What you obviously do not know or are not in contact with your own minister presently where the minister has sent an inquiry to the 74 center of social care to obtain confirmation that this law is negative. Unfortunately, the centers responded positively to her and your grief. So the law of the welfare centres considers the law to have been good. And that's the problem that's bothering you and that's not what you're talking about. So, the only reason is not to work as a lawyer, but the Family Law, which is why you're trying to change counsel for the kids. And why is that? Because she participated in that part of the Family Law that applies to children. So who in this country should be involved in the work of a law that applied to children rather than a guardian for children. Well, I guess I don't know a lawyer for disabled people should talk about kids, and then the baby lawyer will talk about people and disabilities. What are we doing out of this country? People, start being responsible. No one was invited in this country to speak of children's rights but the child's attorney liked it or didn't like it. And I call on my colleagues to think hard about it when they vote because these are not the reasons for the attorney's shift.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11426	Thank you very much. The distinguished representative Margareta Majeric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11427	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you're a doctor if I'm not mistaken, but you can't get into either my brain or anyone's brain and predict who will, or how or in any way, react. What is happening all the time and that is your only argument in this debate is that it is a world-wide debate. Well, it just isn't. The public will assess, the public will assess, it simply isn't. So if the conversation is about peer violence, about protecting children in judicial proceedings, about the equal rights of every child no matter where that child lived, whether in Zagreb or in the smallest municipality in the Republic of Croatia. That the attorney's voice must be clear, that it must be loud and that it must protect the interests and rights of children. If it's a political and secular debate, then you're right. And as for the welfare center, the former minister has just replaced 86 directors, director of the welfare center, and appointed.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11428	Let's not throw it out of the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11429	So allow me, I've been listening to you. So be parliamentary. I really listened to you. So let me answer that. Well, we don't have to think alike, we can argue differently, but let's respect ourselves. So all you want to do is make it true what you're saying. So let there be different opinions and attitudes. That there are no different opinions we do not have to discuss anything then, not reports or anything. The truth is what the SDP was saying. You replaced 86 directors of the social care center and removed a lot of professionals to set up your SDP personnel. That's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11430	Thank you very much. Reputed representative Sabina Vosovac has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11431	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, my colleague Mađeric again and again during yesterday's afternoon debate on this subject is being abused by the Rules of Procedure in Article 238, and re-calculated through the replica with the minister, former minister of social policy and youth. That's how he talks about a subject that's not the subject of debate. And just one message from my colleague Mađerić, if you don't like the Family Law, change the Family Law, don't tear down the child counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11432	Comrade Voter, are you actually aware that you have re-exploited the institution's injuries to the Rules of Procedure? Because nothing was hurt by the Rules of Procedure, which is why you used it as your own replica, but good. The next replica will be her distinguished representatives, Nada Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11433	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues Mađerić, you, we are discussing the Ombudsmans these days, their reports and their work. In particular, in this case yesterday, taught by the Ombudsman herself when she read the law to us, the law states that we are all here and we agree that in our work we should be impartial and consistent, that all activities should be undertaken in order to consistently defend the rights of the child. The task is also to promote the child’s happy growth and development within their families primarily families. And that is why respected colleagues is a very important Family Law, and that is why it is also important that the Ombudsman be involved in the task force, in the work of the task force in the creation of this new Family Law, more than she pointed out yesterday that she did not give up her views and that she would repeat everything that was then in the working group or during the debate on Family Law and did. Family law is very important when we discuss children because children need to grow above all else and develop within their families. However, these days we are very prominent in the debates on the recognition of rights, but here we do not have colleagues right to criticise, nor to debate, we do not have the right to comment, we get right away if we are discussing work and reports of labels and accusations, we are destroying something, we are Stigmatized by those representatives who strongly advocate freedom of speech and opinions. However, this clearly as impartiality and consistency does not apply to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11434	Thank you very much. The distinguished representative Margareta Majeric will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11435	Thank you very much. I fully agree with your replica. In fact, the fact is that the MPs of the Patriot coalition are being put in a position not to discuss it critically. And then the question is why are we going to discuss the report in general, we're going to give a term of eight years, everything's great, everything's for five, there's no need for the report to go to debate. But then we can let him know and that's it. And what our intensity is to improve the rights and position of children in the Republic of Croatia. So reasoned, factual and well-intentioned. Well, we don't mean anything by saying that a lawyer should react in some cases where she may not have responded. Well, that doesn't mean we're looking then that it's not in the interests of children or children. And what we've been dealing with is impartiality. How is it possible for the Ombudsman to be involved as a member of the Working Party in the construction of the Family Law 2014 In 2015, she praised the law, which within 10 days as a new Family Law, changed 600 articles without now refusing to participate in the creation of a new Family Law at the invitation of the current ministry. Although Article 8. The Law on Advocates for Children states: “The Advocate may take part in the process of drawing up draft draft rules relating to children’s rights or regulating issues of importance for children. ” So what is family law rather than a law that exclusively regulates issues that are important to the importance and position of children? That's what we've been having problems with, and we have the right to express our thoughts. That's why we're here.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11436	Thank you very much. The next replica will be the distinguished vice president of Mrs. Milanka Opačić's house. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11437	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, in my replica, I'm just going to make things right because of the public that are completely incorrect but it shows how much this debate really wanted and in some ways I'm going to say that the lawyer is not doing well to find all the arguments that the HDZ club is voting against her and to take her down. Namely, when you spoke to Mrs. Mađeric about the fact that Advocate Ivana Milas Klaric should have raised her voice against it when we reduced the price of supervision to 100 kunas several months ago because there was no money in the budget, then you should have looked at it, then Mila Jelavić was a lawyer and not Ivana Milos Klaric who worked at the Faculty of Law at the time and could not raise her voice. That's the first one. And secondly, when it comes to child abuse in the media, I'm sorry that you're not principled in that part, so why don't you raise your voice for example. and President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic cruised around the children's homes during her campaign, which was extremely incorrect from her. I wish you'd raised your voice back then, but since she was your candidate, then your little principles and criteria are completely different. As far as court experts are concerned, there's no psychologists, there's no psychologists, there's no such thing as that, once again learn something. There is a centre for special custody and its employees who are in a position to protect the child and his rights and have passed communication with children in the judiciary, so they are educated to work with children and are trained to fight for their rights. And the biggest crime of this attorney Ivana Milas Klaric is that she participated in the Family Law, she is a university professor and as such worked on the law. And the fact that the Law did good for children says that in 6 months, so from 1.11.2013 to 1.5.2014, according to the old Family Law, there were 204 cases for divorce with underage children. However, in the period from 6 months 2015 to 2016, by 2.5%, that figure was halved. So now we only have 83 lawsuits for what the parents agreed on. And once again here, I am responsibly claiming the Family Law was only the ones we put our hand in our pocket.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11438	Thank you very much. The distinguished representative Margareta Majeric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11439	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Vice President, it's simply not true that only those you said were raised against the Family Law by those who had your hands in your pocket. No, that's not true. All NGOs, professions, social workers, professors, Department of Family Law, Faculty of Law from Rijeka, Department of Family Law of the Faculty of Law from Split, professors from the Faculty of Law from Zagreb, left and right. I said Sanja Sarnavka and Željka Markić. Impossible, impossible that it was an attack on you as a minister. I understand that you in that part are frustrated because this new Family Law should have been the crown of your actions and turned into a great shame. And that's a fact. And as for the exploitation of children in political propaganda, it is you who from the position of the Minister of Social Policy and Youth in the pre-election campaign who have been using this position and taking pictures with children, who have visited institutions where children with developmental difficulties, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11440	Thank you very much. Now the word will be taken by the esteemed Ombudsman for the children of Ms. Ivana Milas Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11441	Here is out of respect for you because you said you expected answers to questions anyway and of course also because of the Croatian public above all. I'm not going in any order. Mr. Bull, we've missed each other twice. Yesterday when I talked about poverty and discrimination de facto about children in different environments you were, then I saw across the street from the government. I've just been talking about it for a long time. So I completely agree with you, it is one of the five problems I referred to yesterday as the key problems of children in Croatian society, children on islands, children in rural areas, but not just children 30 km away from Zagreb, the situation is already very different. For the sake of the public also students of the first year of law school, Family Law deals in many parts with children. However, in some segments family law deals with things that have almost nothing to do with children. These are marital relations, the extramarital relationships of adults who do not have children, that is the custody of people with deprived business abilities, which, by the way, should not at all be a family legal institute, these are the relationships of restraints between others and between adults who necessarily do not have to have children, etc., etc. We say in the report there, I'm glad we started talking about the report. There's a little bit in the report. Right, this isn't a one-right report, this is a report on all children's rights, and it has to be a little bit of everything, so we can't skip the parts. Of course, someone's going to do something a little bit less, but it's got to be a little bit of everything. We don't have any concrete measures. We have in chapter 155.-164 recommendations these are the only concrete measures that the lawyers can give if you expect to implement measures for this, unfortunately or fortunately, I am not authorized at all. You say it was written under the Convention on the Rights of the Child. You're absolutely right. a good basis since it is a fundamental international document for the protection of children's rights. You say it's not good, the media 2015, 5 389 news about children, 3929 news about children's rights, 1410 notices or a contribution to violence against children and 404 about the Ombudsman for children, and it would be even better if it were more. I couldn't agree more with you. Unfortunately, I don't own the media. Perhaps we could put out a good proposal here to use possibly parliamentary television in some segments when it's not Parliament meetings so that maybe the lawyers or other persons, the other institutions you're working with, we're using that medium, maybe. Last year I proposed a so-called thematic clock in the Assembly where it would be available to you, where it would once a month come for either you or one of you to talk about any topic that interests you, which may serve as a help, a basis for your discussions. Unfortunately, and the Parliament was not at that time, responding when the sessions were thematically related to children, recently we had one wonderful participation on two occasions or three we just had a frequency week-to-week Mr. Ilcic was, for example always, Mr. Academyman Reiner was, the visit to topics about children is weak. When you say the lawyers should, the law says the attorney can participate, you're absolutely right, it can't mean the sea. The Advocate General, as well as all others, decides on their own proposals or not to make, with which content, with which argument, to which extent and even within the time period, of course because of the nature of work and the amount of regulation, we usually make proposals in the framework of public and professional discussions when the Proposer calls but does not prevent us from giving it in any time frame. You're saying the defense attorney should be independent, clear and loud. I agree with an independent and clear one. And if you'll just let me have a small assessment, I absolutely am. Whether it should be loud, if you mean decibels, maybe you shouldn't yell, maybe it's especially inappropriate for a child counsel but clear and independent anyway and I absolutely think I am. The topic of this debate is not Family Law, however, I agree that in large part Family Law is extremely important for children. As much as we talked yesterday, it might be lame for the Croatian public to spend time, but once again why I was involved in making an earlier one because I was not a child lawyer at the time. I was a teacher in the field of family law back then. Yesterday, I told you, if someone called me today as a teacher in Family Law, you'd think it was my civic and professional and scientific obligation to answer the call from the government of the Republic of Croatia. As a lawyer and an independent institution, according to the recommendation of the Committee on the Rights of the Child, I have the right to assess and assess whether I will participate formally as a member of the Working Party. It's usually not good because there's a terrible lot of working groups every day. We wouldn't do anything but sit physically in working groups. That would make our work practically blocked. This does not mean that we will not participate through remarks, suggestions, recommendations, criticisms, praises, etc., etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11442	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He's the first of his distinguished MPs, Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11443	I'm glad you're following her where she is, otherwise I'm constantly in this House means you have an interest in monitoring what's going on outside of what you're dealing with. However, I would like you to be much louder on the matter and clearer on what your obligation is to children and to protect the constitutional right to equality mainly for our children who do not have textbooks secured, who have no transportation or no means. That's what I've written about from the local level attorneys for children, countless times. By the way, I expected you to answer the questions, if you participated, this is a colleague just before me Mađerić asked, did you participate in the creation of the Family Law, did you give support to the Law which fell in the Constitutional Court that it was anti-constitutional because of course you are saying here what you were doing, who means in Zagreb, ok. I'm glad, but I'd like to lead these underdeveloped areas to organise these stands to animated the public, and it would certainly be a lot more so through the media and through the public, and it would contribute to those who should make decisions to improve these things and through legal regulations for children. But obviously you didn't give the answers I asked, not me, but a colleague before me, but she opened up means to me a constructive debate, a critical debate, a very important question because it's about our children. So your questions, I'm sorry you didn't talk, but I hope you will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11444	Thank you. They're going to be answered by an esteemed counsel for the children. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11445	.../The speech room was subsequently activated./... Within five minutes, let me get a man a little. Chapter 12 of the activities of regional and central offices, page 216-222 of the regional office in Osijek, Rijeka and Split. So, colleagues also work in regional offices, they've been set up just to make us more available in different regions and you have a whole list at the end that I have to give you internally boring because it seems useless to us but here you have convinced me of that and thank you for that. List of visiting activities, tours throughout Croatia should be more. I agree with you. And Nas is 19. According to the system, we'd need 23. As we are, it is not an excuse almost exclusively for a woman's office, which may be a substitute for a co-worker for gender equality, we are constantly at a deficit because we are sick, maternity, our budget is shrinking. I agree. We'd do even more if it was objective for us. You asked me about the Family Law if I was involved in making the 2014 Family Law? Yeah. Why? Then I didn't, and in 2013, so the result is the Family Law of 2014. It was from the 12th, the 13th to the petty beginning of the fourteenth. Yeah, that, I think, was a professional commitment. I am a teacher of Family Law at the Faculty of Law in Zagreb. And when someone says that the entire family law department for something is absolutely not true, because I am the Department of Family Law in Zagreb. So she was in on it on her own. Yes, and today I think it's a good and good law. Is it still to be changed over ten years? I think it's in some segments. Although in those who do not care so much about so many children, they are adults who are deprived of their business skills. So, work still needs to be done, it's not at all controversial. Why didn't I participate in the design in 2015? Because that's when I became a baby lawyer. And for the fourth time I am trying to explain that I believe that from the position of independence I do not need to be a member of the working groups in principle, which does not mean that with your proposals, criticisms, objections, and if you allow me to ask you for the sake of the Croatian public, I think that, if you will allow me or perhaps in the final word.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11446	It's better in the closing word that we stick to it. You've already exceeded 35 seconds. But now we have a replica of the same respected representative Sabine Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11447	Your Honor, Madam Attorney, I agree with your part of the presentation where you said that this debate actually came down to a debate on family law. I don't think that's an accident. It is the only alibi that the Patriot coalition, led by HDZ, can have to vote you out of confidence, or try to tear down the report to replace you, although in fact it remains clear to me that you were not able to participate specifically in the work of the expert group for the creation of this new, or revised family law because you were a member of the section when the old Family Law was developed. Unfortunately, what just happened was what counterpart Irene warned her yesterday afternoon that the debate would go in a completely different direction. Instead of discussing and discussing why the report has once again shown that our children in kindergartens especially in Zagreb, we have opportunities to see the escalator, working in abnormal conditions. Why does the curricula reform that children need in some way enable them to be aware of their children’s rights and to form citizens of them, including children who will have the right to decide and make decisions concerning themselves. How will it reflect, for example, the elimination of 75% of inter-local transportation subsidies to the availability of education and the further deterioration of the situation when we talk about the educational rights of children that we see in this report, in some ways, the number of infringements, i.e. the application on this issue, have increased. And how to actually enable that through, to avoid this incompetence, let's say the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports that blocked absolutely all the withdrawal funds in absolutely all the projects for 2015. How to ensure that since September, our children with developmental difficulties whose assistants are actually funded from the European Social Fund are able to consume this right and continue to be quite threatened if it continues like this It's unfortunately something we haven't had a chance to talk about, because like parrots on the other hand only repeat Family Law, Family Law. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] You've broken something, we want to relieve you. Actually, it's a key message. I hope it doesn't work in the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11448	Thank you very much. I have to say it's true that you said that there was no opportunity to discuss these issues, but you pulled yours, you all withdrew your individual debates. So you have the possibility, you have the possibility, you still have the opportunity to discuss it. But just so it doesn't turn out that someone doesn't have a chance. Everyone has a chance to argue here. You can't argue with me, pals. ... Yeah, read the Rules of Procedure, you'll feel better. [[You can't hear it.]] We would now move on to the next individual debate, which is the esteemed representative of Ladislav Ilčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11449	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. We heard yesterday from Mrs. Milanka Opačić that everything we have critically to say to the attorney for the children's work that it is because of the irrational hatred of Mrs. Dubravka the Brave, who must be managing us by remote control of all. Then today we heard that all we have to say critically is to tear it down, i.e. We're changing the Family Law, which is completely illogical to me, because I guess it's clear to everyone that we family law can change anyway regardless of the guardian for children who aren't in that group anyway. So let me say what I consider crucial in this debate. In fact, we are discussing children, children who will grow up, will be, will run this country in 20 years, we are discussing Croatia's future. I believe that we all want what is good for these children, and we have a different view, or I will say not exactly the same opinion that we consider to be good for these children. I am personally convinced that the values that I consider to be good are the best and I cannot tell you how confident I am that these values are very good for children. Fortunately, I believe the same way, and I belong to one I will tell the liberal religious community who believes that God has given man free will, so freedom to think differently, to do whatever he wants. Which gives parents freedom to decide what is good for their children. In that sense, our Constitution, Article 64, was formed. The constitution says parents have the right and freedom to decide independently about raising their children. And there's a difference. So, on our side where we really believe that parents are the ones who respect the Constitution to decide on raising their children and say Mrs. Krpan who last week said that religious science should be kicked out of school, should introduce civic and health education as a mandatory subject, so parents have no right to decide in these specific educational matters which is good for their children and that is the key difference. The Ombudsman for children is her statement on health care when she said that our appeal to the Constitution and the 64th article of the Constitution, which says that parents have the right and freedom to decide independently about raising their children, she said it was a danger to children. So she thinks parenting is dangerous. I can agree with her when it comes to some extraordinary situations like when parents abuse children or I don't know what, regulated by law, exactly that specificity. But generally in things of basic education and education it is parents who have the right and freedom to decide about their children. And that's the key thing. Because it's not about these 1500 or 2,000 cases where the D.A. intervened and did a lot of good things to make it clear. The lawyer for the kids is the lawyer of all the kids. It affects mentality, it affects the Croatian state's attitude towards children's statements. This statement affected hundreds of thousands of other children and the relationship of parents, all other parents to children. And it's important. Call it a world-famous question. Yes, it's a secular issue but it's also a legal question, it's a constitutional question. Is that a political question? Political questions must be bad in themselves, right? Yeah, that's also a political issue because it's up to us politicians to protect the Constitution and protect the children. I'll give you a few more examples. The D.A.'s attorney for the children intervened to take pills for the day after... or so-called The emergency birth control is taken off, so she's no longer asking for parental consent with minors. [[You don't understand.]] And right away, I strongly condemn the Secretary of Health's decision that he did so yesterday. But where did the children's attorneys come from, what do your parents bother you with these kids? I've been having sex for 20 years. I've had an infinite number of parental meetings and I assure you all parents, whether they're more conservative or liberal, no one wants their child to be promiscuity. Which bothers the attorney's influence of the parents and their consent that they say my child wants to take that pill or not. And let me tell you about that pill, first of all, it wasn't medically available until the end of the study of what its side effects are. The other thing is that she's postponing ovulation, that she's contraceptive. Well, we all probably know that the egg cell lives 12 to 24 hours after ovulation. If sexual intercourse was during that period there is nothing to delay, ovulation has already occurred and conception. So, at the very least, I'm going to say that there's a reasonable medical suspicion that she's also acting abortionally, at the very least, if not by the logic of things that I'm saying. What's the defense attorney's idea to intervene in that case? And she didn't intervene when she's in curriculative reform read the contents that are proposed under a booklet in which there are not only pornographic descriptions, read on the Internet you have where you talk about the bracelet, where you talk about juvenile sex, where you talk about pedophile. Did you hear the lawyer say she said, no, that's not good? But where did the child counsel react? She reacted in Djakov, for example, where the mayor said he offered various organisations, sports clubs, folklore societies to find ways to motivate children to be more active and offer them free skating as a reward. Among other things, he offered it to the Catholic Church, and it was obviously a crime. So when the church said that children coming to the theater could come to the rink for free then it was discrimination and all the newspapers wrote about it. So that's what the D.A. reacted to. So when we talk about the lawyer's work, I don't want to be aware of the work exclusively of this part, which only speaks of these 2,000 cases in which she has acted, in which it is unequivocally the conduct of violence, abuse, neglect and anything. I'm talking about protecting and promoting the rights of all children in Croatia. And that she does not only her own actions but also her own views that she publicly utters. And in that sense, the D.A. was doing a bad thing. Not that she wasn't working hard enough, but she represented attitudes that aren't fundamentally in the children's interest. And in the interests of children and what the Constitution confirms is the love of parents. And that bond between parents and children, not the opposite of parental and child rights that are really only in exceptional cases of abuse, etc. but in those regular cases there is no such thing. We too need to bring families together, we need to bring together parents and children, not separate them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11450	Thank you very much. And your exposure caused several replicas. She's the first one to be the esteemed representative of Angel Strike. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11451	Thank you very much, President. My colleagues and colleagues, distinguished MPs and representatives of my colleague Ilcic, you stated that the lawyer had intervened about 1,500 times, but that there were also cases when she was supposed to react and she didn't. One such case occurred yesterday in Varazdin where high school boys protested. This is what our colleague Batinić told us about, and here I have collected several photographs of these protests where children, high school students are seen to protest. Here's what looked like in the streets, parks, crosses, squares, high school kids protesting. Does anyone here think that only high school students in Varazdin have two-foot-long rolls of paper, two-foot-high feet-and-a-half, orange bases that they can write their parolees, protests that they certainly have the right to do? During that time, the heroes of SDP and HNS officials were where they were? In the bushes, in the bushes, in the bushes. Look here's the deputy mayor, this is the mayor, this is the deputy mayor of Lepoglava SDP. This is HNS Mayor, this is counterpart Batinic. You've turned out so well for your colleague. So SDP and HNS officials are urging students to protest and where they thunder, into the woods, the natural environment. And no one reacted. Attorney General, are you going to react to this? This is abuse for the political purposes of high school students. Your colleagues and colleagues from the SDP were very loud about your conviction to condemn this? While children are protesting the HNS and SDPs in the bushes and forests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11452	Thank you. Before my colleague Ilcic's reply, his colleague Batinic has raised his injury to the Rules of Procedure. Which member of the Rules of Procedure is injured please?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11453	Thank you, Angel. Namely, the colleague injured Article 238 is false about a very well-organized protest on behalf of the organisation... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11454	Please, please be quiet. Let's let a fellow Batinić say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11455	False in a way that high school students have abused themselves for political purposes. I am sorry, I expected my colleague, Strick, and you and my colleague Križanić, to stand by everyone who organized and supported the protest, and the protest went exactly the way I did yesterday and asked for a break on behalf of the club. Namely, I say the violation of the Rules of Procedure is in the sense that my colleague Strick is false. And where's who stood then, etc. I think they're also misinformation. So telling the truth isn't a good thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11456	I didn't realize what the truth was? Which he falsely said.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11457	The truth is that protest organisers abused school children. ... And so would I, I know maybe it's not according to the Rules of Procedure but to fully explain why I consider it to be a breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I direct everyone and colleagues to me now on the left and fellow Uncles to be more informed of the very course of the protest, which was said, how was spoken and how the protest was organised. So then it wouldn't be likely to bring out these untruths.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11458	Thank you. I estimate it's not exactly a violation of the Rules of Procedure because here you yourself mentioned that they were the organizers of the protests and not entering the nature of the protests and the justification or injustice of the protests but clearly there were protest organisers, there were obviously children involved, etc. Therefore, I don't think the Rules of Procedure has been broken. But now I would allow my colleague Ilcic to respond to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11459	So like this, I have to look back at each other now. First, I am sorry that Mr Batinic did not explicitly say that HNS and SDP were not the organisers of the protests. First of all, I think you could at least try so hard not to be the formal organizers of the protest. Because if you're formal organizers, then it's really an abuse.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11460	My colleague Ilcic, you answer to his fellow Uncle, not to his colleagues Batinić. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11461	Okay. So there is an indication that this orange paint on these papers and gentlemen standing in the bushes in protest shows that they are indeed the organizers of that protest. And that in that case they abused children for political purposes. I don't get into the fact and the justifiable fact that students, or high school students themselves, organize themselves and stage protests, and I don't take away their right, but I find it entirely inappropriate that someone collects political points at that. I personally wouldn't show up at such a protest because I have political speakers and enough media space to say my opinion. But if students, or students, or high school students themselves gather, then we as politicians need to be very careful and distanced from being seen as a political abuse. And I think that distance is very important and that you thread, in your presentation, said that you weren't the organizers of the protest, or you were distanced from it, but you were actually behind those protesters. So I completely agree with Mr. Uncle that it was child abuse for political purposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11462	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11463	Dear fellow Ilcicu, she has "The Philosophers interpreted the world differently. And beware of a man who speaks the truth and thinks it's the only truth." Only one knows the whole truth and it's definitely not you and it's not a man. But what I'm saying here is that I don't think that religious science should be kicked out of school, Christianity is in the roots of the Croatian people. But what we need to talk about today is the future of Croatian people and that future depends on our children. And that was exactly what today was supposed to be a topic, not petty politics and adolescence, how to improve kindergarten conditions, how to improve school conditions, how to respect the state pedagogical standard that pre-school groups are not overloaded, how to regularly pay scholarships to students who were not paid last month, how not to stop reforming the education system because we can discuss content and need to discuss content. There's no absolute truth, there's a need to defend your attitudes, but let people stand up for different things. The only absolute truth is love. And people out of love defend their attitudes by looking with their own eyes. And allow people you disagree with to fight for a better Croatia from your corner. And that's our strength, our strength should be that diversity, not our obstacle to daily communication, and in, I'll dare say manipulation. That's what I wanted to tell you, colleague Ilcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11464	Thank you very much. The honourable representative, Ladislav Ilcic, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11465	I completely agree with your beginning that no one has the right to the truth, that philosophy implies different opinions, and in the far line of the first three minutes of my presentation, I was talking about it. And I even agree absolutely with you that I certainly don't have complete and absolute truth. But then there was one part of my presentation that spoke about this plurality, about the Constitution in that plurality positioning parents as an instance that decides on raising its children. You didn't get any further on that, but you just said that we should be doing this rather than petty politics, and now you've said something else, I don't know little things, I don't know, it's not a very important term that I'm stopping at, I don't understand what's going on here. So I agree with you that there should be better schools and continued curricula reform and better conditions in kindergartens and all that is agreed. But I'd like you to replicate what I said wrongly or if you think you need to add something. I was talking about the prosecutor's influence on all mentality and on all children in Croatia and not only these 2,000 cases in which she intervened. And that in her actions she showed a false approach, an approach that is not in line with the Constitution and this position of the parents I find extremely important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11466	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished MPs Gordana Rusak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11467	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd say it's totally inappropriate to call the D.A.'s office for reasons she didn't get involved in the curricula reform, which she didn't read 3,000 pages of those documents. So why would she do that? I guess with the premise that these people who are professional, who are working on that reform, they want to hurt their children. I don't think it was the intensity of the people who wrote the curriculative reform, and I don't think it's the job of a child's attorney. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11468	Thank you. The honourable representative, Ladislav Ilcic, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11469	So I think I'm clear, I really haven't commented on the attorney general or criticised anything about the curricula reform. So I'm just now that I'm replicating, I'm talking about when others were calling for the D.A. to advocate curriculative reform, but here I think there's no difference between the D.A.'s office and my position. I think she and I both feel that our schooling needs to be improved, that curricula reform is necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11470	Thank you. The next replica is distinguished MP Margareta Mađeric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11471	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable representative in the part where you said that the Ombudsman should react to all phenomena, especially children's rights violations and, of course, to better children's standards. It is precisely the intensity of today's debates and the basis of these discussions that I believe we will hear the answer to a question that is at least one measure that has been promoted by the Attorney General since you, Madam Attorney-General, took over the role of the Ombudsman for children. Because it's certain that after 8 years of the former attorney general, both in the media and in the public, as well as in children, it was that it was a person who exclusively advocated children's rights. Surely your arrivals have also brought new challenges, especially peer violence, violence on the Internet through general messages, vibera, what's up and all, facebooks that today's young generations use and these are new challenges. And that's why I asked what part, how and how to react better to protect children from that kind of violence. And what I believe is that the Ombudsman for children must be available at all times both in the office and in the field, of course, and through all the activities that are in its activities both children and parents who seek protection for their children.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11472	Thank you very much. The honourable representative, Ladislav Ilcic, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11473	Well, I mentioned one newspaper I noticed at Attorney General Milos Klaric's, which was that she abolished all objections to former lawyer Mile Jelavic's Family Law. That's what I have to say to one newspaper that I've noticed doesn't involve the possibility that there's another. But I am obliged to point out one more thing that I am now resizing Mrs. Rusak's question, so I did say wrong, so during my debate, I did mention a lecture that is part of the curricula reform. And I think that the D.A. should have reacted because it wasn't necessary to read 3700 pages now, plus additional speakers, because that's what experts and experts have been studying, they've reacted publicly, and they've instructed us to look at the headlines, which are the contents, and they're really inappropriate for children. And that's why I'm staying on my claim that the D.A. was supposed to react even though I'm not saying that Mrs. Rusak said wrong, right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11474	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished MPs Sabine Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11475	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Ilčić, Mrs. Attorney General, is a second year at the head of the children's counseling office and is acting in this capacity. So she's half of her eight-year term. You, in half of her term of office, pour trees and stones at a woman who's in this one, is so, but to me, it's better this way, Mr. Shucker, means trees and stones on a woman who's at the beginning of her defense path and who's invisible in two years than overlooked. And I can probably tell you that, too, all those people who work in the ministries as many as they take on pro-active roles and, in fact, to the ministries in some way all the time actually give instructions how to improve children's rights through their resolutions. I don't see anything controversial about what you see in her reaction to the Djakovo case. The situation is very clear. The city of Djakovo and the municipal company of Universal decided to reward the children who go to Mass in the morning with free ice-skating tickets. I have nothing against children who go to Mass and I went to Mass regularly as a child, but this is an eclectic example of discrimination against other children on a religious basis, religion, and the fulfillment of certain religious customs. Just like tears, and if the lawyer hadn't reported in that case, she would have actually broken the law and wouldn't have worked in accordance with her legal obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11476	Thank you. The honourable representative, Ladislav Ilcic, will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11477	First this half-and-a-quarter. I don't know why it's a surprise. By law, we have a debate every year about the attorney general's report for the children. It was a quarter, an eighth, a half, a third but every year. And so we have to discuss it every year. If that seems a little bit to you, that we should wait four years or eight years to speak critically about the attorney, that's your opinion, but let the legal possibility be different. Next, you speak trees and rocks. So, I really think we have the right to a critical review if we think he's dramatic, and we can put it dramatically. You can call it wood and stone. I'm talking about critical speech. And the third about Jakov. I refer to the statements of Officers Đakov who clearly said that it is not true what you just said, that it is not only possible for children who go to Mass in the morning, but also for other sports clubs and other societies to reward children according to their criteria. So I refer to it. And the other thing is, you insist again, and you think the D.A. should have responded to that. What's the consequence of that? Then some kids got free ice skating, terrible thing, I mean we really did or that those other kids that didn't go to Mass were supposed to pay ten kunas. So let me estimate that these ten kunas cost children, just to inform you, that this lecturing I was talking about, can do incomparably greater harm to children than they should have paid ten kunas. You understand, then, that we can simply estimate that inaction with a bookie that is truly mundane, that it can do children much more harm than someone should have paid ten kunas and actually couldn't pay ten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11478	Thank you very much. Now the word will be taken by the esteemed counsel for the children.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11479	Thank you very much. .../The speech room later turned on./... but it encouraged me, the story of ten kunas. Yesterday I heard a story about a father who was a single father of two primary school kids and at school there was a question, how many kids are going to buy pictures for the end of the school year? One where children are smiling or one where they are serious, each picture cost ten kunas, a total of twenty. The father was only ten and then the child brought ten kunas to school and the pictures were forgiven, still under the impression, the pictures were together, the teacher broke in half and said you only brought ten, choose which one you want. That kid came home crying so don't banalize ten kunas. She asked her colleague, Mađerić, how much we are available. The Zagreb office of 8-16, the Rijeka office of 8-16, the Osijek office of 7.30-15.30, the Split office of 7-15, of course many of my colleagues sometimes when the need to go on trips, we participate in meetings on Saturdays and most of all my two fellow deputies are present here and me because of course working hours. However, the claim that I must be available at any moment, I am going to allow me the privacy of the mother of the child and I, according to the Constitution of the Republic and the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, have the right to privacy and family life, the right to leisure, the right to protection of mental and physical health, the right to rest. And I also have the right and duty to carry out all parenting content with my underage child. So, the absolute flossula that I should be available to anyone at any time. The Varazdin case, if you'll excuse me, the two of you mentioned it. I don't know what this is about because unfortunately, or fortunately, however you realize it, I was here yesterday all day. Just because I didn't react yesterday doesn't necessarily mean I won't react since Monday if I find the need for it. Kuricular reform, reform, none of which lasts any formal time someone declares. The reform of everything goes on and on and on, and it's actually the only normality, because the need for improvement is continuous in all segments. And with each proposal, when you look at the education system, there are proposals to improve the education system. It's one of the ways of participating in reform. The reform is, too, our assessment is at which point is smart, necessary and important to engage. One stage is a public debate, one is a phase of professional debate, so that's different things. I am pleased that my colleague Ilcic, in fact, was represented by the esteemed representative Ilčić, told us about the case Đakova. That's what all the newspapers were about, because he's actually confirming by his claim that we're not that invisible. In fact, some of our moves are highly commented. Even in our own recognition, though, sometimes something that is more important is being talked less about in the paper, and we really do a lot of work, and sometimes something that might be relatively less important to get the paper out as a curiosity, so maybe the perception of our work is entirely wrong and not our fault, but thank you for that. My colleague Ilcic said that I once said somewhere that I consider it a danger for children to be a parenting decision and that I consider it an article 64. The Constitution is wrong. I've never said it anywhere, and I'm going to add it. Not only does the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia but the Convention on the Rights of the Child give priority to parents, of course, in deciding on the issues of child rearing. However, if I said something similar somewhere, then it must be something in this style, of course, that there are exceptions. Because first of all, there are children without parental care. We are not going to say that children whose parents, for example, died or have rights, therefore there are children whose parental care has been taken away from them because of the abuse and the most severe forms of abuse, so I agree with you in a large way. Indeed, parents are above all responsible and are obliged to take care of children, and they do have a priority in deciding how to raise children. However, you will allow schools to be, therefore, educational institutions, to carry part of the responsibility for education so that we cannot deny it. The Elavan pill. I didn't ask you kids to do this or that. I was actually looking, I'm taking care of the rights of the children. The question is whether Elavan is an abortion means I must honestly tell you that I have no idea. What I asked for was the opinion of two professional societies, one led by Professor Čorusic and one who leads, you will excuse me, professor, especially I think Professor Dinka Pavić Baldani. And they recommended, therefore, the use of this means, and thus we are in line with the EU as a whole on the possibility of using that pill.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11480	Time. Thank you very much. There's more replicas to your exposure. She's the first one to be the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11481	Thank you very much. Well, I haven't called in to discuss it yet, but I've been offered this statement of yours about this painting, photographs, whatever you want. I think whoever's in that chain of decision and the ability to say something should react starting with the school principal and beyond. Because that's the teacher's reaction, first of all, to forgive my expression of spit in one honorable and honest duty, which is a teacher's duty, which is primarily extremely noble. Because after all, they're all taking care of our children. So an unworthy attitude toward your own profession. So they had to respond to their schoolmates and they had to respond to the principal and they had to respond to all the institutions. Because it's something that's inadmissible. Because if you're not going to give him a picture, you have no right to insult and humiliate him. And this is just talking about how, unfortunately, we and some of the life things that disgust us all whether we're on the left or right of the assembly, unfortunately, we sometimes use for political purposes what's not good. It's just that kids can't be the subject of any political reckoning. Children should be the subject of our thinking and thinking to allow them quality schooling and to raise this level of minimum school standard to a higher level. But I'm saying, using children for some things, not reacting to these things, I'm going to say primitiveism is simply inadmissible from everyone in the chain of institutions that are supposed to react.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11482	Thank you. They're going to be answered by an esteemed counsel for the children.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11483	I agree. That's the case from the day before yesterday. I'll react next week.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11484	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11485	Thank you very much. Also agreed... that it is not good to use children for political purposes which a colleague showed just before and pictures of certain politicians who are in the woods, and the children are forcing us to protest it is a disaster. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] From this pay phone here I would take the opportunity to say once again in front of you and in front of the public that it is a shame that in the Republic of Croatia we have areas where children do not have children, this is a basic problem, they do not have a basic schooling problem, children's kindergartens because their parents cannot achieve those incomes. They don't have the possibility of organized transport at all because no one wants to be accepted. These places are extinct, these places are, all the villages are gone. It's a key problem. It's sad. The example of the Cetina province three has free textbooks, the son doesn't have,... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Children's kindergartens are impossible. These areas will be extinct, everything will be centralized in Zagreb and other major cities, and that is the extinction of these parts and all the villages. That's easy to see. Come to the Chetin area, the Dalmatian Zagora, Gorski Kotar and Liker, and now and Slavonia after this agricultural incentive that went into the hands of large, and not children 50,000 people went away with their families. If our village dies, there's no state. It's just going to be empty spaces. It's not just the state, the state is the people, the state is the children and the future. That is why we should all work here to ensure that all children have the right constitutional equality. Mostly on children, we mustn't violate it, on anyone, but mostly on children. It is the most embarrassing in the Republic of Croatia that the poorest have no right to textbooks. Parents can't find a model to provide their children with textbooks, and we know what's on the market for 4, 5 publishing houses that make a clean profit important. And it happened here, and it was lobbying here. So, let's at least protect our children from having textbooks in elementary school and kindergartens and basics so those ends don't die out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11486	The next replica is distinguished MP Margareta Mađeric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11487	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, regarding this example that you have set, it is truly shocking, difficult, and it is almost incredible that something like this can happen. And I think you should react immediately, that it's already too late, not next week. These things can't and can't wait. They should've all reacted, both the principal and the school and you as the child's attorney. And right in that part where we said loud, yes, loud which means present. The reaction is important so that, unfortunately, sometimes, some things can be triggered. And in that part, I think, and this is also a good example that it should be different to act and work because children can't feel the economic crisis and the inability of parents here you specifically set an example to pay 20 kuna for the picture. That's what's important. And it is certainly the task of both teachers and classmates and teachers and directors to those children whose parents are unable to pay for the school to react there. Personally, it is well - organized in our school. Apparently, there are also these phenomena, and that is what needs to be responded to. As far as availability is concerned, I think there's a need to organize the duty, that the service must be available at all times. Not you personally, nobody says you have to be from 0-24 but you have to deploy people who will be available. And why did I ask that? Because I had several complaints, one of them was that parents had already addressed the Ombudsman’s office in February about an extremely sensitive problem, such as fostering and adoption. They haven't got an answer yet. So that's one justifiable criticism. I believe that such things should be responded immediately.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11488	Thank you very much. They're going to be answered by an esteemed counsel for the children.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11489	As far as duty is concerned, we're not the police, we're not the police, we're not the ambulance, no, we're the institution that shouldn't have a duty because the nature of our work isn't like that. If it is abuse or difficulties in physical integrity, then some other institutions are competent. So you don't have to do drama where you don't need it. And as far as this individual case is concerned, it's really like this when you tell me without information, of course, we can't do it in this place, but at least without a number, and come Monday if you're in the office or we can hear each other, so let's see what's going on.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11490	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ladislav Ilčić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11491	Just for a little while on that danger to the children. Therefore, a long-standing debate on health education has been held since 2014 and before. So not only is that true of what I said, but we reacted to it as the “Glass Parents for Children ” Association. We didn't get an answer from you. So I can't accept this denial. The other thing about LO 1 is, not using pills, but asking you to allow minors to use these pills without knowing their parents. And one more thing about the bookie. You responded to the book "My Dad Sleeps With Angels" in which you were troublesome and, in my opinion, learned from the context of home statement. So you reacted to the book. And on this book that promotes paedophile and pornography, you're not.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11492	They're going to be answered by an esteemed counsel for the children.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11493	Using L.O.1 tablets is something called patient will autonomy and right to choice. I'll pull your parallel, the law allows minors over 16 years of age to carry out abortion proceedings without parental consent. Then it would be legally completely illogical for you to use L.O.1 tablets to condition your parents' consent. It is perfectly legitimate to ask for an amendment to the legislation and the Law on Health Protection and the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights and the Law on Health Measures for Free Decisions, so a brief law on abortion. As long as we have such a regulation, however, it has been completely contradictory in the legal system that you allow minors 16 years of abortion without parental consent and that you condition her taking pills by consent of parents. For this booklet "My Dad sleeps with angels" we have received my assessment now that I can't tell you the exact number, 30 applications, we passed them on to the Ministry of Science and Education, we got a response from the Ministry, and that's where we actually stop and forward the answer to the Ministry of People who reported it to us. And as for the proposal for curriculative reform and as far as the lecture is concerned, my position at the moment which he knows means that he will be so at the moment of non-reaction, is the fact that public debate is under way. So when she comes to the end, we'll say something about it. So it won't run out of reaction to this application, and we got one of these reports you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11494	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Milorad Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11495	Thank you, Mr. President. Ms. Attorney General, you mentioned it in the context of a debate or replica of a fellow uncle's protest in Varazdin. In that protest very clearly, so I would like to point out once again and invite you on this occasion that according to your authority to verify all the allegations, whether there have been child abuses, whether it has been violated in some part of certain laws. I'm responsible for saying no. I'm responsible for saying no. The assembly was legally registered, approved, wrapped on a public surface and there was no point in saying literally folding or grabbing children for sleeves and painting, watering, etc. They are expensive, the protest was organised by the young HNS of the Varazdin County. Which is totally legal and legitimate. Messages, I will once again read here which were sent from this protest "Minister Shustar please report." Also, the Minister sent a message, "Minister, why is a one-way ticket to Germany cheaper than the school's monthly ticket? We want a bus to school, not Germany. Our parents don't have 1300 kunas for monthly tickets. We want a land of knowledge, not a stone age. We want a country of equal chances at all." And in conclusion, "We have the right to education." I don't see what's controversial in this and in what sense is child abuse? I would have just said the opposite, that it was in the interest of all the children in the Republic of Croatia and I'm sorry that I didn't attend that meeting together with my colleague, Uncle. I expected that when he had not already given support in the vote of amendments that we of the HNS Club have made, I understand the party discipline, when he is not already within the HNS club very clearly articulated the problems that can arise with this, then at least I expected him at that protest. But unfortunately, he didn't show up.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11496	They're going to be answered by an esteemed counsel for the children.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11497	Well, you're certainly right in this sense. I don't know what happened exactly in that either of what I said, so I said I'd check on Monday because I was there at the time we were talking about. So what I can say in principle from this place is that according to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, children have the right to information and political gathering and organization. So, in principle, without any information about the event, and from the fact that we are now in front of the Croatian public and also because of both of you, if I can say so, I will start checking on Monday. And given your interest, then I will, so I won't stay just like that in our office and our file, but then I'll issue a statement that you'll be able to see on my website so you actually see how I did, how I found out what it was about.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11498	Thank you very much. Now the individual debate will be the distinguished representative of Maria Budimir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11499	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed attorneys with co-workers, esteemed colleagues and colleagues here is the second day we are discussing the children's lawyer's report for 2015. And I find this debate extremely important because we all say that Croatia's future is just children. As far as your report stems from your work, I am absolutely certain that it is based on the fact that children have a number of rights that become aware, and of course age, but what is rarely mentioned are their responsibilities. And I don't know if you'll agree with me that we're living in the company of a spoiled system of values. You, as a lawyer, detect, discover, most of the problems. However, you can certainly by your work some phenomena and prevent them. So I'd like to mention something immediately, Madam Attorney-General, which seems important to me and we haven't touched in our debates so far. You certainly participated in the development of the National Strategy for Children's Rights in the Republic of Croatia from 2014 to 2020, and you know that one of the strategic goals and priority health challenges is combating excessive weight already in childhood. According to the Croatian Institute of Public Health aged 7 to 15, the proportion of overweight children is 29.8%, of which 9.2% of children are threatening, and 0.4% are extremely threatening, while 1.9% of children are malnourished. Compared to European countries, Croatian children of school age are 4 and 4 in 39 countries, respectively. In addition to serious health effects, obesity can also have a significant impact on psychological development and self-experience. In doing so, the experience is too close to the look compared to the objective parameters sexually conditioned and boys are generally more satisfied with their appearance and try to look more developed, older and girls are already more difficult to gain from the early physical appearance that advertise and represent the media as the ideal of female beauty. They share themselves in general, also affect the general sense of health and satisfaction, and life is the most satisfying children who are satisfied with their body weight. A feeling of less value we all know leads to depression, social behavior and eating disorders. Therefore, this systematic concern of society about proper nutrition and the eating habits of children and young stock for satisfying the population is now and in a healthier future. So we're witnessing this problem. And of course we have to find solutions. We need systematic preventive solutions, not solving the consequences. In my understanding, here you are, and in your report, you've also touched on civic education and health education, and I think we should all make a contribution to the curriculative reform that goes on, and you're standing up for as many hours of physical health culture as possible in order to put an end to this problem and we've heard that all the consequences can come from that. I hope you'll agree with me how in your work other than detecting the problem I have some things to prevent. And in this way, perhaps today we are talking about visibility and not just visibility as we have heard in these discussions when a problem occurs in society but on the basis of some research, scientific research points children to some future of theirs, and hence to our social responsibility, whether it's a legal issue, whether it's a matter of reform, or whether it's the work of you as guardians for children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11500	Thank you. They'll be answered by an esteemed counsel for the children. Excuse me. And replicas. We've got more replicas. She's the first to be the respected representative of Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11501	Dear Mrs. Budimir, you mentioned the fight against obesity in children who is an important segment for better children's health. Certainly, this problem will not have Zagreb children because the daily meal has fallen from 12 to 9 kuna. This is what is evident, what is happening in the city of Zagreb. We hope that's enough. But I would also like to warn the Ombudsman that if the quality of the diet in Zagreb kindergartens is disrupted, she will respond. Another important thing that wasn't much of a word here today is curriculative reform. It is children who are in the focus of this reform because the most important thing is what Croatia will look like tomorrow. So if kids are better to us today, that is. Tomorrow they are better than us, then it will mean Croatia will be better than today. And that's the only thing that matters, and that's why I'd like to concentrate on the debate, not so much on the technical details of the report, but on what can be done for children in Croatia to live better. And it is possible to do with a sport that is important segment of development, because it learns and learns and learns and fair game by the rules, it learns sports in the early life stage but and certainly what Croatia needs is much more mathematics in primary schools and much more learning mathematics and in preschool education itself, through smart play and through learning. The main problem of the Croatian economy and the structure of the growth of our gross social product, which in the last 26 years has been social science, the number of students, the number of completed three times has grown compared to technical subjects. This is the root of the Croatian problem. And so the most important thing is that children in preschool education, learning through play and primary education develop logical abilities and learn more mathematics. That's the key.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11502	Thank you very much. The distinguished representative, Maria Budimir, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11503	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Bernard, I see that we can agree in this assembly especially when it comes to children, what should be our goal for all of us. Here's the first vote: in the city of Zagreb the reduced price is probably talking about a meal in schools, as regards snackes for children. Unfortunately here we are aware here and from colleagues of Bulja we have heard that in all cities, children do not have the possibility to have a warm meal or that one meal in the day at least while at school, we know what the situation is, economically, whether parents are working or not, but we should all aim at having the child secure one meal in any way. The curricula reform goes on, I think neither you nor I, here we have the possibility of expanding the expert group and thus contributing to what is most important, of course for the future of this country and so on to the children. You've talked more about it, I'd mention, I don't know if you know about this particular obesity, in some schools we still have self-service machines, and you know what's going on in those machines, that these are unhealthy products and I appeal to and on a child's defender that, if it isn't for schools, it's an announcement to remove these self-service appliances from schools because that's how we don't just affect a healthy diet. And that in schools, schools are educational educational institutions in some way present healthy food whether kids like it or not because schools can't go to school for reasons they don't like to eat it. We too must teach them if they can't get a meal of fruit or vegetables at home that schools and that will lead to their diet because we also have a healthy diet affecting their health.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11504	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Angelka Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11505	Thank you, President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished MPs and MPs. You listed your colleagues, i.e. talk about the needs of children of the lowest age. I assume that's where you considered preschool children. In fact, the town of Varazdin has 47 thousand inhabitants and only one kindergarten. This means that according to the pedagogical standards prescribed by the State, it can be attended by up to 600 children or 30 departments, regardless of how many facilities, i.e. how many buildings were in the area of the city. The neighboring town of Čakovec has 25,000 inhabitants and two kindergartens. And it is therefore to calculate that the city of Varazdin lacks three kindergartens to cover the needs of preschool children. However, the mayor handles it very nicely by sending children to private kindergartens rather than making private ones. The question is whether the conditions in the city's kindergarten and privates are the same. But counterpart Batinic doesn't protest, so he doesn't protest because his mayor up in Habush, but that's why HNS and SDP stage protests, use high school kids, put them on the streets, ego look and they run into bushes, bushes. So it's not disputed that high school kids could protest, but they had to organize themselves, but this is where SDP and HNS organized them, exploited their political purposes, and those high school kids were protesting for them. Which is why the SDPs and the HNS weren't brave and protested themselves. And this thing that I didn't show up, I didn't even know. If you'd invited me, I'd have come but I wasn't in the bushes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11506	The distinguished representative, Maria Budimir, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11507	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Uncle, here's an interesting piece of information. I'm glad that there are so many children in the town of Varazdin and that you are thinking about demographic restoration of the Republic of Croatia but I'm surprised that your mayor didn't plan maybe strategically in your city because the state administration's office is getting out of the home office of how many children are born and if you already have a growth trend, maybe you should have planned another kindergarten, because yes, the pedagogical standard says 6 hundred children for one established kindergarten, if that's the reason, you wouldn't enter, somehow his opinion that private kindergarten needs some private children to earn, but here's commendable that you have children, we'll leave it on the mayor's thinking. And as for this protest, I am not a supporter of the use of children in any kind of protest at all. Here are the witnesses we were you set an example of Varazdin, the other day in Ban Josip Jelačić's Square when it came to children's rights, curricula reform, but I don't think it's justified by some and educational workers and families, there were a really large number of children under the age and all the way to the elementary schoolers to be invited to one such protest because it's not a way at all if with an insufficient amount of information that your parents may have had, we can't think that only one expert in the Republic is enough, and if he's not allowed by God to get human, I want him to get sick and what would be. So, the reason is just to continue the curricula reform with the expansion of the expert group. No one here should be hostages and thus invite people and children to the square and say that curricula reform does not go on.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11508	Thank you very much. And the next replica, the esteemed representative of Steve Culey. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11509	Your Honor. Croats and Croats, minorities. And what I'm going to talk about instead of Slavonia's problems. I agree with my colleague Budimir, with the big problem of child obesity especially at school age, primary school. Also with Mr Bernardic, so I'm going to point to one link to the whole story. Two years ago, somewhere around here, huge black limousines from Zagreb rushed in a wipe-out flight to Babina Greda, set in circles, took off in suits dark with ties, officials, ministers, prime ministers, flew around the village, took pictures with children outside the elementary school, buried the cornerstones for a future sports hall. When they took a nice picture, they ate the tower, ham, cobanac, wipe in Zagreb per living room and today we see that the primary school of Mia Stojanović and the mayor of Babina Municipality pay every day in the media if they have an appointment, if they are allowed on unfulfilled promises to them, their children they used, abused in front of the election year and time before. What will happen to these children of ours who are doomed to practice in the halls while under their foundations they are being crushed by fecal waters and various diseases and all that some other children don't have. Some children in Zagreb have everything, they may be short of any calories to make it home, but we are too short in Slavonia, we have little. What they promised us, what we fulfilled, what they gave us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11510	Thank you very much. The distinguished representative, Maria Budimir, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11511	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Culey. Since we both come from Vukovar-Srijem County, I have to say I'm familiar with the problem of the Babine beam hall, that's another one I'd say a classic story from our Republic of Croatia. I don't know if the D.A. is familiar with the story. Okay, this is last year's report. I see that you have mentioned inadequate working conditions in the school in Bobota, along the way, I will mention that we also have inadequate working conditions and in the primary school of Nikola Andric, which is the only of the 6 primary schools in Vukovar that has not yet been restored. You know how the war affected the city of Vukovar, in what inadequate conditions the students of that elementary school and Nikola Andric were going, as was also the danger of their stay at school from dripping water from electrical sockets, so here are the three hundred children not to the former minister was probably important but in that election year in the Babina beam where he was in power and then and now the SDP was important to be considered to praise a valuable project to build one hall but 22 million kuna for one hall in one believe you know that the hall for 22 million kuna must be when many years ago, we see here in the town of Vinkovci was built for ten million kuna. Of course, that firm that signed up for the contest went bankrupt, and now there's the D.A.'s attorney. They would stay if they saw more of a hole for the Olympic pool and thus life was not only of the citizens but also of those children in the area of the school in this way threatened.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11512	Thank you very much. And the next replica is the esteemed representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11513	Thank you very much. Comrade Budimir, you've been saying that the attorney for the children has reacted frequently. It is. A really hard job has been recorded as a lawyer in terms of reactions. But I was surprised, it was incomprehensible that she did not respond to the title proposal, to the legitimate titles in the context of the curriculative reform and the proposal for texts for full reading. It is known that these works must be literaryly high works, meaning literaryly valuable works. That they must respond to life's age, to life's experience, to enable cultural literacy to develop, to contribute to personal development, to create new perspectives. Some of the works that are proposed are in complete contrast with these principles and it is not clear to me that you have allowed such acts that contain exclusively curses, simplicity, disgustingness, negativity, and that they involve and cast out one Marulic, one Dostoyevsky, Michael O'Brian, Amos Oz, Ivo Andrić, Kafka does not have a single sentence of simplicity in their literary works because literary works are highly unknown to that language. But curses are known for many reasons, and most often because of complexes or lack of knowledge, because of the inadequacy of the work they do. Do you want your child to read what can be read? I thought I'd read a text like that here now. Unfortunately, I'm not allowed to do this with my stomach. Please read these texts and respond to that. And one more. She left the schoolteacher in retirement and said when she left that she was only sorry for one who taught children the right and the right values of life. She was a media heroine, the D.A. didn't respond to that. It's something that can't happen. Thank you very much and thank you in advance if you do not respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11514	Thank you. Dear Representative Maria Budimir will respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11515	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, my colleague Maric I can really agree with you. And I'm just appalled by the fact that I can say thank God, here are my kids going to high school now, that if we don't respond now, God forbid that in our lecturer works we must but also free to let teachers choose our titles to find something like that in our schools. Because really swearing isn't appropriate to adults at least, and children don't even talk. What you said about all the reading values, I agree with you. Yeah, that's what we're developing by reading the bookies. By reading we develop intellectual abilities, increase the amount of neuron connections in the brain, exercise patience, ability, concentration, imagination. I wouldn't want my kids to start fantasizing like that. And as far as this teacher is concerned, here's a colleague of Shucker's today talking really teaching is one commendable job. And I'm an educator, a teacher, a class teacher, and I could never say in my life that it's the worst thing for me in my working life that I've taught kids and that it's the only right thing to do is teach them right and right. Every teacher knows the values of the education system. Today, too, we had an example of this teacher who could react differently. Yes, perhaps a teacher should be more familiar with the situation of economic students. Because even when I was working at school, it would never occur to me that a child had to choose and in conversation with those photographers could agree and give up pictures. And my colleague Shuker said rightly, the director was supposed to react here first. But our parents often skip institutions that are lower and immediately address you. I don't think there was any need to raise it to that level and the whole public knows what's going on.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11516	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11517	Thank you very much, esteemed President, dear colleague Budimir. The lawyer's job is responsible, serious and complex. In the report we see more threats to parent, family, economic, and this is certainly reflected in the situation of children in society. Growing up young people today is different than before. Young people face much more stress, more and more social differences, which largely leads to peer violence, the obesity you were talking about today. But I have to look specifically at the part that some colleague and co-worker discussed yesterday, which is the number of minors who consume alcohol and who are outside after 23 hours. It's the problem of a whole society, but the saddest thing is that in all of that, we're having an appointment as parents. And what I'm particularly concerned about is the increase of violence in educational institutions, which is 36% compared to the previous year, which means 68 reports of which 20 violence adults are 13 in school and 7 in kindergartens. Well, here's how much violence there is in those youngsters. I think we can always and we have more room for prevention, and we know what prevention is. So it's always a simpler and cheaper way of doing things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11518	Thank you. The distinguished representative, Maria Budimir, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11519	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleague Maximchuk. I agree with you. Here are a lot of topics that we haven't touched today or yesterday, and this is what you were talking about and in one part of the debate, the problem of alcoholism in our young people and the problem of dating was mentioned. Yeah, our underage kids shouldn't and shouldn't be out for 23 hours unless accompanied by a minor. They often have friends who are 18 years old, so that's how they vouch for them. There's a parent thing where here's the way they let their kids go where and when to go out. But the bigger problem I see is that the law is not respected and that these kids are still being poured alcohol, they're being sold cigarettes. Here, we have good laws but unfortunately in practice we don't implement them. As for peer violence, yes, here's the D.A.'s attorney who had an increased number of applications. There are preventive programs in schools, it's done. I have a feeling the more we work on preventive programs that our peer violence in our schools is getting bigger. We know that violence exists not only physically, that violence and insult, and the differences between students here are some schools trying to prevent both social and economic differences in a way that may be the return of school uniforms, which is what I welcome as a good idea not to see differences. There'll be another debate about it. School uniforms cost money, too. I think we have a lot of work to do in the education system but to see the reflection of the whole society again on children.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11520	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative Margareta Mađeric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11521	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, you have well detected one of the biggest problems both in Croatia and in Europe and in the world, and this is the children's threat. And the consequences are violence against such children. Physically, it's certainly the worst form of violence, but what's more dangerous is a psychic that's often also verbal mockery, teasing, demeaning children. And what's the biggest problem is detecting such violence, encouraging a child to talk about him to report him so that even if he's a lawyer, school institutions, teachers, classrooms could react. And one of the biggest problems is economic violence when it comes to situations like we said that children are different from each other that can't happen in childhood. And the problem, unfortunately, in Croatia is the problem of hungry children. When we were a year and a half ago, two media officials and directors pointed out the problem that children come hungry to school and unfortunately often leave that school hungry, then we heard comments from the current ruling furniture at the time that we are not in Africa and that there are no hungry children in Croatia. Eventually, if someone's hungry, they're Roma, which I find scandalous and catastrophic. I believe that we all have to act together so that the standard of children in each segment, especially in that part of the protection of children's human rights, is at the highest possible level.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11522	Thank you. The distinguished representative Maria Budimir will respond, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11523	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, dear colleague Mađerić, the problem of obesity is seen also by insulting children most of what I spoke about the appearance of children and this body weight, their physical appearance is very important to them especially in the phase of development and in puberty. Often our children, here we are today, not to mention the problem of facebooks, the Internet. We have online on the facebook insulting children which caused several suicide attempts in the Republic of Croatia when they were insulted that they were either fat or skinny, that children did not want to hang out with them. Groups are based against someone, and that is what should be talked about and what each parent should control with their child and how he stays on the Internet and how he communicates with his friends on the facebook. We'll all have to work on it, and we can't let kids do any violence against another child based on physical or any differences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11524	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Blaženko Boban, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11525	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues of Budimir you spoke, I will remain in my replica precisely at your exposure to the obesity of children at preschool and school age. And you've done a good job of apostropheing those problems. However, there is another problem. I know that the legislator regulated that in the circle of school, you can't install various kiosks, hot dogs on the part of the catering staff, and then you create a double problem. That the caterers of course see their profits, their benefits and then install these kiosks or some kind of small catering facilities right next to the schoolyards and thus create a double problem for school principals, teachers and teachers because children are exposed to the problem of traffic by running the road and continue to buy this unhealthy food in these catering facilities. That is why both the inspection and the attorney general need to react without delay. I personally come from the local community, and I know that on many occasions we have put this problem and inspections and counsel and did not respond, and children are exposed to a really double problem, and diets and traffic jams and don't let God of suffering run the road. And on the other hand, I'm going to say here I think that media really needs maximum protection of children, so I'm going to say from the transfer of these sessions from this assembly when it comes to children because here we're discussing their rights and their obligations and imagine no advocate on the left side of this assembly has as if they're not interested in children's problems, as if they don't know that children have any problems at all, or as if they think the lawyer is doing her job completely right. That's why I thank you so much for your response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11526	Thank you. The distinguished representative, Maria Budimir, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11527	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, the topic is very important, I said at the beginning of my presentation we all say that children are the future of the Republic of Croatia and that everything we do for our children and I is deeply saddened by the same fact that there is no one on the other side of the assembly, but they must have some more important business and more important reasons than to discuss with us today. We saw that they also withdrew their debates and did not want to discuss with us the rights and the children that we are talking about. You've detected the school's problem very well. Some schools of fellow Boban most likely do not have a school kitchen and then in some ways the privates and around the schools put on kiosks and we know that in this way the lives of children running across the streets to go in five minutes buy a snack to eat something that day, because here children are like children, they do not do it before school, but they run during vacation. I think the same thing can be solved, the principals should have a little more oversight so the kids don't leave the schoolyards. If parents have sent children to school they expect them to be in school and not outside the school space, and we know that outside the school fence is a place that is not school. And the threat itself is a subject that needs to be talked about much more and not only with the Ombudsman for children but also with the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education, because that is what our future depends on.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11528	Thank you very much. And now, finally, on behalf of the HNS club, Liberal Democrats, the word will be taken by the honourable representative Milorad Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11529	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Attorney-General with co-workers, the introduction of the HNS club, as we have said in the debate, will support your request report and what you pointed out through the report and through personal address to make your work as efficient and quality as possible in the next period. Of course, you also need some support from all of us here, colleague and colleague in the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the club, I would like to take a brief look at the debate because I see that certain topics have gone perhaps too much into some ideological debate that I think is not good for children. Also, I will look back briefly and on a subject that has been discussed and motivated me for her especially colleague Strick about transportation. I believe that this is one of the key issues, and I believe that you will also respond to this decision by the Ministry of Education to abolish the co-financing of free high school transport. Because I think it is the primary question for the future of the Republic of Croatia in terms of demographic renewal, certain standards and what is the ultimate goal of making our Republic of Croatia the best and the best of our lives. Why am I saying that? He would like to highlight one piece of information from the Varazdin County, the first in the Republic of 2005 to launch an idea and apply in practice co-financing for free transportation of high school students. And of course at the head of that idea was HNS. We don't have anything to hide or manipulate. After years of free transportation for high school students, the number of high school students in Varazdin County increased by 30%. So the goal is more than achieved. Also why am I talking about northern Croatia? We all know that the standard of citizens, average wages, is 40%, 30% to 40% lower than in other parts of the Republic of Croatia. And it was perfectly legitimate for me to be responsible for what I personally spoke of in the Assembly and what was the position of the HNS club that it could not be, it is not good to lift free transportation for high school students. A fellow uncle that I was hiding or my colleagues who were at that protest would you have come up with photographs? No, you wouldn't. The rally was legitimate, we got permission, we didn't re-route traffic, we didn't violate public order and peace, it was all more than by regulations, the only thing we got at the walking crossing that didn't have light signals on several occasions, maybe one, one and a half minutes eventually to two stop traffic. And I'm clear, I stepped in together through that pedestrian crossing and I wasn't hiding and where were you? Once again, Madam Attorney-General, I believe you might be more up-to-date on this subject, in our opinion it's extremely important, I gave you this flyer precisely for the reason that you're going to check out these allegations that you later responded to me and that there's no abuse, that there's no manipulation with children. I don't see why your party, your party's policy here we can agree to privatization of health care, privatization of education, why not kindergarten? What's the issue, what's the issue? What is important for preschool education to enable our children to attend preschool education that is co-financed, so support has the only local self-government to do so. I don't see why units of local self-government would meet some standard for you, there are pedagogical standards that institutions must meet, but there's no reason to establish if they have private initiatives. And Madam Attorney-General, I finally wish you good work with both our wishes and what you have pointed out for more activity in the coming year and for your work to be more effective and better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11530	Thank you very much. And your exposure caused several replicas. The first is the distinguished representative Irena Petrijevcanic Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11531	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Here I was also in the debate yesterday, and I would say that there was a great, great conflict of words and deeds. As I said yesterday, I'm a believer, but I prefer to show it to the works than to the words. And my worldview will have nothing to do with the decision on the work of the Ombudsman because, as I said, I did not choose this guardian for children, nor will I participate in its resolution. Because I have not seen from the report anywhere that the Ombudsman did not comply with the law, that she did not adhere to the Council of Europe Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Strategy or any rules to be followed. And as I quoted Pope Francis yesterday, so I said that the Catholic Church is now managed on the basis of mildness, on the basis of understanding and on the basis of tolerance, then it's just completely unclear and incomprehensible how people who call on Catholic faith at the same time can show a lack of elemental Catholic values. Yesterday I called for an objective debate and called for an objective debate all the time. And my debate yesterday went exclusively in the direction of improving child protection laws. And especially when it comes to sexual abuse and child exploitation. And I am deeply saddened that the debate in the biggest part has gone exactly in the direction that it is actually trying in some way to mount a certain process against the work of this Ombudsman for children. And all the time, it's called out to wish children well. So if you want to be good to children as they say, as they say, then why not let the attorney-in-law work independently, independently, without the interference of the worldview and with continuity? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11532	Thank you. The honourable representative Milorad Batinic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11533	Thank you, Mr. President. I can see from my colleagues that you will support the report and, of course, I commend. I would also like to say that many discussions have followed this as if some colleagues do not want to accept the Constitution of the Republic, which the Constitution states when certain ideological topics were focused on them. Croatia is a secular state. I don't see if any of my colleagues and colleagues here in the Croatian Parliament are clear, I point them out, we all get the Republic of Croatia Constitution where it's very clear what it's all about. Furthermore, I agree that we should give the principal support and we will. Our club will give support to the attorney general. And as long as it works in such a way that we see improvements year after year, we see positive trends. Of course, it is up to us only once a year when the report comes, but throughout the year, and that our proposals, suggestions, we also report, to be proactive in terms of working as a lawyer with co-workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11534	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Radiir Cacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11535	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, everything Mrs. Petrievcan said, that I do not repeat myself in terms of voting and in terms of assessment. Mr Batinic, of course, in every party and in his when concrete projects, visions and realizations come from man and he knows when it was done, when we talk about free transport. Now, of course, he prescribes everything, but then in 2005, when I introduced it to the Varazdin County, the resistance was huge, the misunderstanding was huge, and in my own party too many of them didn't understand that it was possible. We introduced it as a model, Sanader tried to collect a few political points before the election, applying it for a year. The next year when the election came, then of course he canceled. We have imposed this plural on us to take it conditionally, personally, as Deputy Prime Minister of the Government of Mr. Milanovic. Unfortunately, after I left, the government tried to put an end to it. We stopped it, we abolished free transport. Milanovic's government. That's what the minister spoke of in public. We stopped it, the HDZ came, the same story of another pack. Right after the kids, shut down right away. Instead of going to mandatory high school. Instead of assuming it's a free ride, it's the same story again. It is therefore important to have a strong influence in the Croatian authorities that such nonsense is not repeated. No matter who's trying to realize it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11536	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Milorad Batinic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11537	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Yes, in 2005, the project, I think, was that absolutely, all local units with co-financing, a free transport project with co-financing of all units of local self-government of municipalities and cities in the area of the Varazdin County. Yeah, right. And always as you said, HDZ was always when it came to power or obstructed or abolished. This is now the third time. This is now the third time. I made it very clear that in the debate on the state budget the message is very clear and Minister Suštar and Prime Minister Oreshkovic, you have the opportunity to be recognized, now unfortunately you will be after something else, to introduce mandatory secondary education. It's progress, it's not backwards, it's a step forward. I am also saddened by my colleague Strick, who was the head of the local self-government unit and who willingly recognized the value of the project as the project, because the cards from its middle where he was head of local self-government were the same as 600-800, 1300 kuna, the monthly bus. It was the only way many families could exist, that many children could enroll in high school. Unfortunately, the situation today is the same. Many environments, urban environments may not have the problem, and therefore they can understand certain colleagues on both the left and the right that they are not so sensitive to it. However, if our goal is to develop the Republic of Croatia evenly, what should be our priority. Then it's a priority. One of the very important priorities for education.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11538	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11539	Thank you very much. My colleague, I agree with you that the less important are ideological world-famous topics when we talk about children. But the fact is that you're coming from the county where there's an organized meal of kids, we're telling primary school kids, that's what I asked you. But the key problem I have to point out again is the key problem, you've been leading the country for four years, you've been in most of it. Here is a colleague, Cacic, who needs the whole state, mostly undeveloped areas, municipalities and cities and self-government that do not have enough resources. It's sad that these kids don't have any food, their parents don't have textbooks. I repeat, these local environments cannot provide money for textbooks and children at work. Carriers aren't ready to carry students because it's not good enough for them, unfortunately. That lawyer has to give everyone a public warning. And you've been in power for four years. Now this opposition is what it is, it doesn't matter. But the fact is that these parts are forgotten, that these places are extinct, villages, mountainous mountains, Lika, Gorski Kotar, Slavonia, nothing develops. These kids don't have opportunities and we have so many resources that we can direct them. So here's the food, home products. Our children are eager for domestic food, Croatian products. So there's a possibility. If that was good in your county, why not transfer it to all of Croatia. That's what the D.A. should talk about, about textbooks, about transportation, about kindergartens. We're dying out of Croatia. These spaces are empty, not only is the state space, the state is the people, the extinct areas, we will remain the city of Zagreb and a few more environments, and that is the key to the problem, and we should all be the same stick to resist because without it there is no prosperous Croatia or demographic restoration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11540	Thank you very much. And now the word will be taken by the esteemed Ombudsman for children Ivana Milas Klaric. Excuse me, Comrade Batinić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11541	Thank you very much, President. So I have to answer to my colleague, Bul, or confirm some of the allegations he has made, and the Constitution states that the state is obliged to help the less developed units of local self-government. Through the Regional Development Act, it is very clear how the state must intervene. I'll repeat what I've said several times today. So elementary school is mandatory. The state must be more actively involved. We made that clear through the budget. High school should be declared mandatory. It's one of the measures. All this stuff you've been saying and demographic restoration and even development, and it doesn't require too much money. And that's cheaper, too, fellow Bull and this and I gave you this flyer where it says, why is a one-way ticket to Germany cheaper than school? Yes, unfortunately. It seems that this government is cheaper that children can't finish their anger school, can't get to it, can't get to it and go to Germany for work. Then the kids say, we want a bus to school, not Germany, synonym Europe, where there's work to be done. Comrade Bulj, as long as it's such a thought and you're part of this coalition or I don't know if it is yet. Try and convince your colleagues. Then the children wrote, a land of knowledge, not a return to a stone age. We want a country of equal odds for all, even regional development. Namely, these are all the things that just through one topic as much as certain colleagues may be insignificant, benign but extremely important, and I believe that now that we may have more potential for this topic, the attorney and the co-workers will pay more attention to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11542	Thank you. The injury of the Rules of Procedure was lifted by a colleague, Strick. Here you go. What do you mean, he's hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11543	So, it's a violation of Article 238, my colleague Batinic is not discussing the agenda point. It's a lawyer's report, he's talking about the transportation of high school students, not why HNS and SDP used evil yesterday to send a message.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11544	Well, I estimate it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure after all, so we'll move on. Dear Ombudsman for children Ivana Milas Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11545	Honorable MPs and MPs, Your Honor. Well, I'll have mercy, I'll try to finish in five minutes. I thank everyone for the debates, the suggestions, the comments, the questions and the criticisms. I call on you to cooperate even better, this formal proposal of the Thematic Clock in the Parliament will be repeated once more formally. I hope that it will pass as a proposal, and also independently of that, our cooperation does not have to be formally framed to discuss it. Whenever you want on any subject, my associates, me, we will be happy to come and talk about any child-related problem that you think we can help you with our knowledge or data. I have to even tell you that a complex is a socio-political moment, we're all aware of that. We are adults and this situation certainly affects all citizens in the Republic of Croatia, and thus children. Often in the best of intentions we use one floscule children are our future. But children are not just our future. Kids are the present. Children exist in the present. They're people with needs and rights at the moment. So let's not talk about kids just in the future. It seems to me that I should say that let's safeguard human rights, this is the most place where we are able to do this and where we actually have the greatest powers to do it by thinking of the Croatian Parliament. We guard the rights of children who are human rights, but not just declareatively, but invest human resources, let's educate people, human rights, material. We invest in human rights, invest and preserve human rights institutions. Let me remind you myself that today is Friday, June 10th, and it's the last day of school. We have a lot of elementary school kids and high school kids who are finishing one year or a whole cycle of education today. I want to commend all these children and young people, their parents, teachers, teachers in institutions, and I want to thank adults for helping them and keeping them safe. Many of them, therefore, of these parents, grandparents, are you. I wouldn't be a good lawyer if with such a cheerful moment I didn't find a problem right away. This is the fact that the school holidays will last for 3 months that the children are always looking forward to. Let's think about it. We don't all have grandparents. None of us have vacations for a month, let alone three. Where we're going with the kids, especially the younger age, who we're going to give them to for safekeeping. How are we going to ensure their safety? With whom these children will be for three months, and what we offer as a society in those three months to make it easier for parents to decide whether to have another child. If you would ask me what I would tell my child from this place, and I would tell that to your children and children in Croatia. It seems to me that for every single child, for every adult and society as a whole, that's how I look at it. Of course, we can find a lot of other values. And I agree that values should be spoken of. If I were to work my own ladder somewhere, three things are very important to me for everyone, and so is the children. It's primarily knowledge and competence, because if we don't know then as much as we want, it can hardly turn out to be the best. Another is honesty, because sometimes we can also know, but if we don't want to use that knowledge in a good way because unfortunately knowledge can sometimes be instrumentalized, and the third is courage, courage to use that knowledge and that honesty in times of difficulty. I do not guarantee anyone, nor do I, with these three qualities or values, necessarily material progress is not fast. But it seems to me that these three things can always result in a feeling that when you look at yourself in the mirror in the morning that you feel good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11546	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11547	You said, "Let's keep the rights." They're written. However, rights are broken for children. I repeat, she's breaking up again. You must be louder mainly in undeveloped areas. It's not even development. These people are leaving, and those kids are leaving. They're not even in the present, and they won't be in the future. Be a lot louder on that. It is not just Zagreb and developed parts of the Republic of Croatia a place for children. Clear message. All children must have the same rights and rights for children. They are not the same in Dalmatinska Zagora and Zagreb. And that's the problem, and let's not keep rights, but we don't respect what's written by Mrs. Attorney General. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-09-0.u11548	Thank you very much. The following is the report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2015. She's a child lawyer. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the following conclusion is put to the vote: "A report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2015. Please vote. Who's in? The vote is over. Please score. 56 for, nine abstentions, 64 against. I find that there are not enough votes to conclude that it was proposed by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. I announce colleagues and colleagues that the continuation of the session will be on Wednesday 15 June at 9.30 p.m. with a point on the work of the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities for 2015. I also ask you, please, that committees do their job during Monday and Tuesday so that we can work normally. I note that some committees did not have, once again, the quorum and I ask that committees be convened and they have quorum. Thank you very much. Have a nice weekend.
