ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u27	But I'm asking for a recess, Mr. Petrov, you're violating the Rules of Procedure if you won't allow me.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u28	Your Honor, I'd like to be honest with you if you don't mind taking a break this time, if you can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u29	I'm sorry, I can't. I have the right to do that. You can't take away something from me that I have the right under my Rules of Procedure. I'm looking for a break on behalf of our club for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u30	I don't intend to take it away. And all I care about is why you're looking for a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u31	The reason is that the police have just arrested all of our colleagues in the Holy Spirit 8 and does not allow them to come to the Parliament session because the Dukic family's mission under the orders of the illegal RBA cooperative has been carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u32	Thank you. I'm setting a break of 10 minutes. [[It's 11:09 p.m.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 11.20 HOURS]] I'd like to ask the Honorable Agent Pernar to explain the reason for the break.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u34	Dear colleagues and colleagues, unfortunately although Mr Plenkovic promised in the election campaign that the only real estate would be protected from the exercise not only had the proposal given up very likely but in the election night, but it still means today at these times while voting on the government's trust. So the intervention police arrested the Holy Spirit 8 on my dear and respected colleagues, Ivan Wilibor Sinčić and Branimir Bunjc, because I find it inadmissible and scandalous that in such a way, it means when carrying out a mirage on the orders of an illegal RBA cooperative to simply take them away in a march. And I think it's one blow to democracy and actually an act of political repression, which means that HDZ is clearly continuing with old politics and old methods. And for this reason, I appeal to Prime Minister Plenkovic to refrain from any attempts at political repression and political persecution by our colleagues simply because they disagree with his policy of violent actions by citizens who have no place to repay loans as well as the state itself. And I appeal to your conscience because what happened to my colleagues today, when the session is tomorrow, the police may take any of you and say you have no right to any immunity, you go with us to the police and actually take them in such a way that they cannot participate in the debate. So it is not acceptable for us from the Living Wall to treat the people chosen by the citizens, who have received a mandate from the people in such a brutal way as to violate actually the will of the voters. It's like I'm the minister of police and now I'm arresting all my HDZ colleagues and I'm saying, you're not coming to the debate today. Such that, if he did such a thing, it would be a scandal, but I can see that the HDZ does not exceed anything. Thank you. That's why we asked for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u35	I'd like to thank Agent Pernar. Dear MPs and MPs move to the next item of the agenda: - Presentation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the vote of confidence of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Let me briefly remind you of the constitutional position and responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia exercises executive power and is responsible for the Croatian Parliament. The President of the Republic shall be the President of the Republic, based on Article 98. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia entrusts the mandate for the assembly of the Government to the person who, based on the distribution of seats in the Croatian Parliament and the consultations carried out, enjoys the trust of most of the MPs. In accordance with Article 110 of the Treaty on The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the members of the Government a person to whom the President of the Republic has entrusted the term of office for the composition of the Government. Immediately after the formation of the Government, no later than 30 days after the date of acceptance of the term of office, the Prime Minister is required to present the programme to the Croatian Parliament and ask for a vote of confidence. I ask the Prime Minister for the composition of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Andrej Prenkovic, to address the representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1073	Honored Presidents of the Republic of Croatia, the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed MPs and MPs. The Croatian Parliament is the representative body of all Croatian citizens and the centre of the political legitimacy of the democratic multilateral system of the Republic of Croatia. The government stems from the trust of elected citizens, and in its work corresponds to the Croatian Assembly as the holder of the legislative authority. The Croatian Parliament's composition is a direct result of the Croatian voters' will expressed in the September 11th parliamentary elections. The President of the Republic of Croatia entrusted me with the mandate for the assembly of the Government. It is therefore a pleasure for me to present the programme and composition of 14 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to representatives in accordance with constitutional provisions, and to request the trust of the Croatian Parliament. Before presenting the programme, I would like to thank the previous government, its members, and Prime Minister Tihomir Oreshkovic for their contribution to the development of the Republic of Croatia. 25 years after gaining independence and independence, we can say that together as a state and society we have achieved many successes and made significant progress. From the recipient state of humanitarian aid due to the war-related and aggression of Milosevic's regime, we have become a full member of the EU and the North Atlantic Alliance. At the same time, I am fully aware of the challenges I face. Our society and our economy face deep structural problems. Industrious work is not always recognized enough and socially rewarded. The Croatian population is rapidly old, and every year fewer children are born. The global financial and economic crisis has left negative consequences on all parts of the Croatian economy. The European Commission has placed Croatia in the category of Member States with excessive macroeconomic imbalances, and the Council has launched a corrective procedure for excessive budget deficits. The country's political stability has been questioned over the past year. We therefore need a new vision and approach to ensure, despite the negative indicators, a prosperous and orderly state of equal opportunities. I am aware of how challenging it is to carry out promotions according to individual policies. However, I am convinced that, with a clear vision and unity, we can also make positive changes, and that economic advice and the development of a national sustainable development strategy that will be proposed by the future government will be of great help. Therefore, allow me to present in the main lines the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme in 2016/20. First of all, I would like to point out that in achieving the long-term programming objectives detailed in the document before you will be led by the highest values of the constitutional order referred to in Article 3. The Constitution – freedom, equality, national equality and gender equality, peace, social justice, respect for human rights, integrity of ownership, preservation of nature and human environment, rule of law, democratic multiparty system will be the basis of every policy we have. We will carry out the executive power in accordance with the Constitution and the law and all with the aim of ensuring the development of the Republic of Croatia, and for the benefit of all its citizens. The government will work together with its partners to establish a strong and stable legislative platform that will guarantee legal certainty. Recognizing the importance of the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary as a lawyer, I will pay particular attention to ensuring that these principles are respected in all areas of government work. Our approach will be inclusive. The government will carry out its activities co-ordinated and in partnership with all social stakeholders, primarily social partners, entrepreneurs and trade unions, as well as the scientific and university community, and NGOs promoting a culture of mutual dialogue aimed at creating an inclusive and tolerant society. We will be a listening government, a government that knows how to recognize both expectations and the needs of citizens, entrepreneurs and governments who know how to make changes. Accordingly, we will build a functional, professional and accessible public administration. We will also advocate decentralisation of jurisdiction on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity. What can be effectively solved at local, or county level has no reason to solve at the central level. Countys need to be strengthened as holders of regional growth and development. In the four years of the term of office until 2020, 4 are the main objectives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia: achieving stable and sustainable economic growth, creating new and quality jobs, stopping emigration and demographic recovery, social justice and solidarity. Realising sustainable economic growth will be a key priority for the 14th Croatian government. The programme therefore pays particular attention to the definition of measures aimed at economic development. The programme envisions the adoption of a series of measures that will be in the role of increasing the standard of living of Croatian citizens, developing the economy, promoting production and creating new jobs. We will create a favourable business environment because entrepreneurship, especially micro, small and medium-sized, is the cornerstone of economic growth. As a result, business conditions will be facilitated for entrepreneurs and investors, and full tax reform will be carried out. It will cover all segments of the tax system, and will in particular focus on simplifying the system, expanding the tax base and tax discharge of citizens and entrepreneurs. The reform aims to create a stable, sustainable, simple and competitive tax system to avoid legal uncertainty that prevents investors. A further reduction of non-taxable duties will be carried out by a citizen entrepreneur who should give a momentum to the development of the Croatian economy. By presenting the budget, we will show that the government continues to reduce the budget deficit and the share of public debt in GDP through balanced fiscal consolidation and growth generation. We will also continue dialogue with the European Commission within the framework of the European Semester and with the development of quality national programmes, reforms and convergence to reduce the budget deficit and strengthen macroeconomic stability and competitiveness. Such measures will lead to a reduction in public debt, exit from the excessive deficit procedure and an increase in credit rating and improve the outlook of the credit rating, as well as a rise in credit rating levels towards investment. Energy is a prerequisite for the development of the overall economy, and the energy sector is one of the more important areas for new investments. This is why the energy sector will pay the attention it deserves, as shown by the new institutional structure of the government in which energy exists is equal to the share of one ministry, along with environmental protection, in order to draw up balanced proposals for the Government of the Republic of Croatia. During this term, we will develop an Energy Development Strategy until 2050, which will be based on security of supply and competitiveness of energy prices and in line with the Low-carbon Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia by 2030. Over the next 4 years, the development of agriculture should be one of the main drivers of new employment, the recovery of Croatian villages and the less developed parts of Croatia. The total number of agricultural workers since 2011 has been reduced by 100,000, and our goal is to reverse such trends. We will therefore put into function unused agricultural land and ensure a better allocation of funds for direct payments and rural development from the EU budget. The economic recovery of Croatian villages will show how much we managed to develop Croatia economically as a government. Our goal is to make full use of Slavonia's potential as Croatian cereals, young people who remain in rural areas and operate there, stronger exports of agricultural products and domestic healthy food at affordable prices. In parallel to ensuring economic growth and the balance of public finances, we will implement demographic policies that would stop negative trends. Unfavourable demographic movements in Croatia that have negative effects on the labour market, pension, health and education systems as well as on the balanced development of all parts of Croatia represent one of the most serious challenges of modern Croatian society. The new Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy therefore reflects the government's political priorities for the formation and implementation of the most advanced demographic policies. The most valuable Croatian potential has always been human and the government's obligation is to preserve and develop the abilities and improve the work of the Croatian man. The government will therefore encourage demographic recovery through comprehensive measures of active population policy. We will make a personal effort to protect the family as fundamental units of Croatian society, we will continuously protect the family and implement policies that help to bring work and family life into line. We will develop social justice and solidarity. Social justice is the expectation of Croatian citizens and it is the government's obligation to provide assistance to the socially excluded. The peace, health and social system must therefore, with the necessary consolidation in order to maintain its long-term financial sustainability, maintain the principle of solidarity and its protective function. We will provide our citizens with a quality and sound health system. We will reform the social care system to reduce poverty and protect the most sensitive social groups. We will pay particular attention to the even development of all parts of Croatia. We will systematically act towards reducing regional differences, in particular by changing the development index. We will propose the adoption of a new Law on Supported Aids and the Law on the financing of units of local and regional i.e. regional self-government, and we will develop specific programmes for the economic recovery of less developed and war-affected areas, which is a prerequisite for preventing the eviction of the population and reducing the negative demographic trend. The sustainable development of mountain-mounted areas and islands from which 2 ministers enter the new government will be the goal of the government's work. Education is a prerequisite for the development of human potential in Croatia. It is a public good and unequivocal national priority. Education and science in the function of the economy with innovation and creativity are the cornerstones of modern and sustainable development. We will continue to reform the system of education and education, a curriculative reform that is an absolute priority for us and a major national project essential to the future of new generations. We must enable young people here in Croatia to start and start their jobs after completing education. At the heart of the reform we put the development of every child and student, training young people and adults for lifelong learning and adapting to changes in all areas of life. Our plan is to develop a modern system of dual education and better connect the educational process with the real needs of the labour market, to develop projections of future needs of the economy, and to enable young people to develop knowledge and skills to prepare them for the jobs of the future. We will continuously increase the allocations from the budget for science and research. We will also encourage the financing of scientific projects and the restoration and improvement of research infrastructure from European funds. We aim to raise R & D allocations to bring Croatia closer to the level of investment as well as technological development of other European countries. Honored representatives, Croatian defenders like those who are the most responsible for living in freedom and democracy today will have the full respect of the government of the Republic of Croatia for what we wanted to highlight and by changing the name of the Ministry of the Croatian Defence. Our government will unconditionally promote the truth about the Homeland War as a free, fair and defence war which is the basis of an independent and free Croatian state. We will cultivate the positive and political legacy of the first President of the Republic of Dr. Francis Tudjman. By passing a unique Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, we will unite and improve the quality of all rights. We will take care of the appropriate standard of living of Croatian defenders and their legal certainty both outside the Republic of Croatia and ensure that the state and our society are their support in employment and entrepreneurial initiatives, housing, quality and health services and education. We recognise the previous and current contributions of Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia, economic, scientific and cultural interests as well as the defence of the country. This is why we will work to connect them, deepen ties with Croatia, and integrate evicted Croatia into Croatian social and political life. When it comes to security under the circumstances of dramatically modified global security challenges, it is important to establish a comprehensive, coordinated and proactive approach by Croatia's institutions to reduce the vulnerability of society. Through the cooperation of intelligence and security services, better protection should be provided than possible terrorist threats and other security threats, and by investing in the equipment and modernisation of the armed forces as well as by the police to raise the level of our abilities. The Government of the Republic of Croatia will actively work in line with constitutional powers in the field of foreign policy management to strengthen the international credibility of the Republic of Croatia and its role in the world and to coordinate activities with the President of the Republic. As a man who has devoted his professional career to Croatia's EU accession, the government I will run will benefit more from the benefits of EU membership, as well as the North Atlantic Alliance. We will lead foreign policy in order to achieve key national interests. The European future of BiH is a strategic foreign policy goal of the Republic of Croatia, the care of the Croats in BiH as a constituent and equal people, and the care of Croatian minorities in other countries will be my government's strategic task. The EU Council decision decided that Croatia would take over the presidency of the EU Council in the first half of 2020 and the government would prepare thoroughly for this important international challenge. For the effective implementation of the political platform contained in the Government programme, professionals with professional and personal integrity are key. Allow me therefore to comply with Article 110. I present the Constitution to members of the government whose résumés have also been delivered to MPs. For the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts, I suggest Dr. Martin Dalic. Martina Dalic is a candidate with exceptional professional and professional qualities and is recognised and appreciated in international financial circles. So far she has been in the previous mandates of Croatian governments, the finance minister, the secretary of state, led everything related to the coordination of European funds, and in many activities so far has contributed to the stability of the public finances of the Republic of Croatia and I expect great engagement for the prosperity of the Croatian economy. Davor Ivo Stier has been proposed as Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister. This is about my colleague, who I have worked with together for the past three years in the European Parliament, and we have also worked together to complete the process of joining the EU, and our experience in Croatian diplomacy that lasted 20 years, I am sure he will put into the role of protecting the foreign interests of the Republic of Croatia. Retired Major General Damir Krsticevic, was proposed as Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister. It's about the commander, the warlord of the 4th Guard Brigade. He continued his great pain in creating a sovereign and independent Croatia in the Homeland War later on with very successful and dedicated work both in the MORH system and later in the private sector. He will work to improve all aspects of national security. Doctor of Science Ivan Kovačić, proposed as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Administration, is a doctor of medical science, Mayor of Omis, Parliamentary Representative and Head of the Department of Dental Protetics at the Faculty of Dental Medicine in Split. Vlaho Orepic, proposed as interior minister. It is about the current interior minister who is actively working on preparing and meeting the conditions for the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the Schengen area, is an engineer for maritime transport and a volunteer for the Homeland War. The Doctor of Science Zdravko Marić, is current, and I hope the future minister of finance. I am convinced that it will continue all its very significant achievements in the mandate of the current government and that it has been related to the reduction of public debt, the budget deficit, the insurance of macroeconomic stability, and the continued increase in economic growth, and it has been in the private sector and the secretary of state in the Ministry of Finance. Ante Šprlje is a current and hopefully future minister of justice, a graduate lawyer who is the judge of the Municipal Court in Metkovic, and has already built an experience on the organisation and functioning of the Croatian judiciary. Tomislav Tolusic, was proposed as Minister of Agriculture. It is about the current minister of regional development and EU funds, it has already proven itself mayor of Virovitica-Podravska County and I expect it, together with his colleague Gabriela Žalac, who has been proposed for the Minister of Regional Development and EU funds, which has so far led the HRAST Agency in Vukovar-Srijem County, has devoted itself to the development of the county. They work together on what we have said over the past three months, and this is among other parts of Croatia an important contribution to the Slavonia project and the development of the East of Croatia so that it is as developed as other parts of our country. For the minister of construction, I propose the current minister, Lovr Kuščević, who is from the island of Brac. During three mandates, he successfully acted as head of the municipality of Nerezic and was a graduate lawyer. For the Minister of Environmental and Energy Protection, I propose Dr. Slaven Dobrovic, current Minister of Environmental Protection, Dr. Science, who runs the Department of Engineering, Water and Environment of the Faculty of Engineering and Shipbuilding with experience on numerous domestic and international scientific projects. Oleg Butkovic is proposed for the minister of the sea, transport and infrastructure. Another current minister who has started a series of important restructuring and rationalisation processes for public companies in transport, especially road transport. I expect a continuation of dedicated work from the former mayor of New Vinodolski. Dr. Science Tomislav Ćorić was proposed as Minister of Labour and Pension System, Dr. Economic Sciences, participated in the development of our comprehensive electoral programme and I expect that it is very committed to topics that are crucial to our many fellow citizens of the third age but also to all those who are in the working life stage. Dr. Science Nina Obuljen Koržinek was proposed to the Minister of Culture. She graduated from the Music Academy and the Faculty of Philosophy, PhD in the Faculty of Political Sciences. So far has been the State Secretary and Assistant Minister and Chief of Staff at the Ministry of Culture. It has all the competences necessary to implement the cultural policies of the future Croatian government. Gary Cappelli is proposed as Minister of Tourism. So far, the mayor of Little Losinj in three terms. He was the leader of the HDZ Tourism Committee, an earlier parliamentary representative with experience of working in the tourism sector. Prof. Dr. Pavo Barisic was proposed minister of science and education. A regular professor at the Faculty of Philosophy, University of Split, president of the Croatian Pan-European Union, lawyer, Germanist, philosopher, formerly worked at the Ministry of Science and Education, and I expect great pain in the work on curricular reform. Prof. Dr. Science Milan Kujundzic is proposed for the Minister of Health, an internal medicine specialist and a specialist in gastroenterology. He gained great management experience at Dubrava Clinical Hospital. Prof. at the Faculty of Medicine in Zagreb and Mostar, previously worked as assistant minister. With my professional and life experience, I expect it will make a great contribution to the functioning and efficiency of the Croatian health system. Retired Brigadier General Tomo Medved is proposed as Minister of Croatian Defence, I expect him to continue working as former commander of the 1st Guard Brigade with a great sensitivity for open issues and problems of Croatian defenders to create a single law and this inclusive job that has given space to all defence associations to contribute to the best legal solutions. Dr. Science Goran Marić has been proposed as Minister of Government to deal with the coordination of the work of central state offices, agencies and funds, is a doctor of science, an experienced parliamentary representative from whom I expect him to propose the best institutional solutions for those parts of the functioning of the state administration that we have found to need an additional structure and possible ministerial structure at the moment. Nada Murganic was proposed as the minister of demographics, family, youth and social policies. The candidate is for the Minister of Demography. With its exceptional social and humanitarian engagement, as well as political engagement, it has so far proved that at the level of the town of Karlovac, the Croatian Parliament, the Community of women “Katharina Zrinski” has shown both as a lawyer and as a person who understands the problems relating to social policies and also to demographics, youth and family are ready to contribute to the work of the new extended ministry. I believe that each of the proposed ministers and ministers as well as all together as a collegiate body will, therefore, work as a future government to achieve the goals of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in certain areas. And that it will improve public policy with its expertise. That is why I expect each of the members of the Government to apply the highest professional standards in work within their portfolio. The results of certain measures may not be visible in the short term, however, we need determination and endurance in making the right moves that will make Croatia a better quality and orderly country in the medium and long term. The government I propose is the result of political co-operation, primarily by the Croatian Democratic Community on the basis of election results and our partners at the time of these elections as well as the Most Independent Lists. Our programmes are largely consistent and complementary and based on detailed analysis have been translated into a joint government programme ahead of you. The government will also be supported by representatives of the National Minorities who have made a substantial contribution to the government's programme during this period of elections. The representatives of the HSS, and the club of representatives of Reformist and Milan Bandic. I am pleased that all eight representatives of national minorities in the Croatian Parliament have given support to the new Croatian government. Such cooperation will be a provision and guarantee of quality and protection of minority and human rights in Croatia. Croatia will retain the highest European standards for protection of minorities and the government will promote respect, co-operation and solidarity with a view to full protection of minority rights. In the first 60 days, the government will adopt operational programmes for individual national minorities, and a revision of the National Strategy for Roma Integration will be carried out. Regardless of the party membership of its members, the government I will run will be the government of all Croatian citizens. The achievement of common, national and social objectives must be ahead of political and ideological differences and the government will therefore implement a national community policy. We will promote a responsible face-to-face with the past and condemnation of all non-democratic systems that have caused tragic sufferings, persecutions and the liquidation of political insinuators in Croatia over the past century. The work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia will focus on overcoming social divisions and providing satisfaction to victims of all totalitarianism. I believe the government will have good cooperation with the Croatian Parliament. I would like to stress that in Croatia there is in the interest of constructive criticism and a reasoned debate within the Croatian Parliament that will lead to more successful public policies. On this occasion I would therefore like to invite all parliamentary parties to constructive work and cooperation in the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament and at plenary sessions. I call on representatives of political options that share the interest of the improvement of Croatian citizens to contribute and the work of the new Croatian government from their perspectives and their active efforts. According to the highest democratic standards, I assure you that the Prime Minister of all Croatian citizens, as Prime Minister of all Croatian citizens, will consider all proposals aimed at the welfare of Croatia and our society. Defending the legacy of his banish work, Ivan Mažuranić gave a famous speech in the Parliament on December 13th 1886 to present the basic features of his work. He would conclude today's presentation of the government's programme and the government's composition by paraphrasing his speech, which most summarises the approach to taking over the management of the executive state government over the next four years. Aware of the level of responsibility and challenges ahead of us believe in Croatia, I believe in its past, its present and its future. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1074	I thank the Prime Minister. I'm opening a debate. Before the debate, we have three replicas that have been reported by the MPs. The first of the deputies to report for the replica is representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1075	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. I would like to point out that Mr Plenkovic is talking about the European path and the European future. But what we had a chance to see today means before the constitution itself, or I won't say the constitution of the Parliament, but before the government speech began in a European way, it was in a brutal Balkan way that my colleagues were arrested. And that's why they arrested Mr. Plenkovic? Because you were in the campaign saying that you would protect the only real estate from the execution but you seem to be lying. And now because of your lies, your colleagues played the piano and the family ended up on the street. And I don't see simply, I don't see any positive movement from you and we've been appealing to HDZ for five years from 2011 to today to stop the repression politically. But we see that your fellow police don't arrest, don't prosecute, don't close, don't judge, and their verdicts go to the Constitutional Court. While our colleagues don't have any protection, even though they have representative immunity. Thank you, Mr. Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1076	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1077	Thank you very much, Mr. Pernar. As you know, I am now the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. The rule of law in Croatia works and our promises regarding the new Act of Conduct will be in the procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1078	Thank you for being responsible for the replica. The next member of parliament to report for the replica is Honorable representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1079	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, I welcome the President of the Republic, and I would like to congratulate you first and foremost on the election result and, at the post of Prime Minister, I would like to congratulate you after the government's vote. I would first of all like to return the discussion of the metrics to the Croatian Parliament, one tolerance debate in the future of Croatia, and thus we will try to act in the SDP. Croatia unfortunately lost too much time over the last year in an experiment and an experiment between HDZ and the Most, an experiment where the citizens of the Republic of Croatia do not deserve to be and did not deserve to be a guinea pig. Unfortunately, we have also lost a credit rating, the interest rate for Croatia is more than it was before and with the announcements of tax reform we enter into investment risk. You announced an increase in the tax base, and on the other hand you announced a tax reduction. tax discharge of citizens and entrepreneurs. So, I am interested in very clearly when and within what deadlines you are going to do this because tax reform is something that is extremely sensitive to investment and therefore it is extremely important to return to Croatia the investment climate of trust. It cannot be returned unless there is a positive investment climate or unless there is a permanent tax system. That's why my question to you is when and in what time are you going to do it? And what I'm going to say for the end is that we expect you as a future prime minister and as a prime minister from the future president of the Croatian government to protect those things that we have achieved in Croatia as a democratic standard, which is individual freedom, that is reproductive women's rights, that is antifascism, and that is the protection of minorities. Under that level, we don't go no matter the pressures of various social groups, because as SDPs, we're going to defend it until the last.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1080	Thank you, Agent Bernardic. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1081	Thank you very much, fellow Bernardic. When it comes to the democratic procedure of the points already discussed in the Croatian Parliament reflect the political priorities of our partners during the election campaign. I am sure that a number of legislative proposals that will pass first and second reading will be thoroughly discussed, and the interested public will be able to contribute. As a priority, the new Croatian government will have a budget preparation for 2017 and, in parallel, we will be starting to present first at government level from next week and then towards the Croatian Parliament full tax reform. So our goal is to approach tax reform in a comprehensive way so that we can also expand the tax base and disburse both citizens and entrepreneurs. We'll talk about this in agreement with the proposed finance minister, Dr. Maric, from tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1082	Thanks for the answer. And the representative who also reported for the replica is a respected representative, Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1083	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I welcome all colleagues and fellow candidates for the Croatian government. I also congratulate Mr Plenkovic on the election result. But I do have to say that I'm a little disappointed with the program that we got on the bench and with this preliminary presentation of yours, because it seems too superficial to me, and I don't see any connection between those great promises we heard in your election campaign and how those promises can be realized. What I'm especially reporting for, I know you're a legalist. I have never seen you associate this programme with the national reform plan and the convergence programme adopted in April 2016 by the Croatian Government, which was accepted by the European Commission and in which key areas are related to education. I'm saying what I'm saying, I'm talking about the 50,000 citizens who protested for stopping the curricular reform. In this plan, on page 62, education for the labour market is set out in Chapter IV. IV, which highlights the specific implementation of the curricula reform, as well as the programme for the development of vocational education. These are the preconditions adopted by the European Commission to get all that money from the EU funds. According to that, it's a prerequisite for pulling that money back. This topic has been overly touched in your programme and there is no mention of a national strategy for the development of education, science and technology that has been completely abandoned and has not been implemented during the past period under the leadership of Minister Schuster. And what I would like to say to you as a matter of fact, don't you think that by proposing Mr. Barisic, you got your own Montenegro, because since yesterday, the academic community has been buzzing because of its unfair moves since 2000, when it was removed from the post of director of the Institute of Philosophy before the end of the term of office because of the disorderly and partially non-existent financial documents, because of what it was doing in 2004 as assistant minister of science. In 2005, when it was resolved, in 2008, when he taught at 19 university colleges at 4 different universities, which was practically impossible and neatly compensated. Is this a guarantee that education and science will be in Croatia what we all expect. I'm afraid not.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1084	Thank you, counsel. All I'd ask is that we stick to our scheduled time. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1085	Dear colleague Jovanovic, thank you for your comments. When it comes to science, education, investment in science, research, education and education, I guarantee you that these will be priorities of the work of the future Government of the Republic of Croatia. And in the course of the election campaign and after 9/11, we paid great attention to this particular segment. All reference documents, as well as the existing convergence plan, including the reference documents relating to science and education, are documents on which all Croatian institutions, including the Croatian Government, will work. When it comes to future Minister of Science and Education, he will continue to work on reforming education, on curriculative reform, a job that has not stopped even during the term of office still technical government. Access to education reform in a plural way that includes those experts who may not have been able to contribute to it earlier should be a fundamental principle on the basis of which we will produce a quality reform that will provide such an educational system that will allow our young people, our children to compete with knowledge, broad general culture, law, later specialisation, critical attitude and analytical view of the world around them to be competitive for jobs of the future and for the labour market far beyond the Republic of Croatia. In this regard, the future Minister of Science and Education who is both a lawyer and a philosopher and a Germanist, and the secretary of the International Pan-European Union, has all the references and experience to do the job in a quality way and has my support.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1086	Thanks for the answer. I'm opening a debate. The first to appear on behalf of the club of MPs, the club of MPs IDS, PGS RI their representative Boris Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1087	Dear ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, I am going to repeat here today in principle the sentence I said almost ten months ago. The club of IDS, PGS and lists for Rijeka will not give confidence to the right-wing government of HDZ and MOST because they are simply values and ideological differences too great. In addition, since fellow MOST politicians represent the idea of abolishing Istria's county, since the proposed laws go to collapse the local community, since their ministers propose reforms where they wish to abolish, for example, the police administration in Istria to move to Rijeka, and we know that Istria generates one-third of Croatia's total tourism. Since their minister has proposed a plan to abolish Elektroister as one of the best parts of HEP and join the Elektroprimorje also with its headquarters in Rijeka, that is another motive why our club of representatives cannot support this right-wing government. By listening to your exposure and reminding yourself of your slogan #Religious man asks himself one question, yes, we believe that this country needs decentralisation, both fiscal and functional. Because we see that this model of centrist management of Croatia has simply not received any results in the past 25 years. Why am I saying that and I'm going back to the word credible? Because both in the pre-election campaign and in this part of the programme Chapter No. 8 that we got today is about decentralisation. But on the other hand, we already have proposals for laws that go in order for this country to be further centralized. It is not clear to me if someone is sincerely in favour of decentralisation, as in the first steps, already proposes diametrically opposing laws that will further impoverish the local community in favour of the state budget. I believe that this is not a good thing that the law is proposed without any public debate, which has not been consulted by local self-government units, and it is going after one measure that will definitely punish successful ones, those who want to work and stimulate those who are on average. Now, the idea of an even development of Croatia is certainly good, but I don't want this even development to mean resuscitation, I don't want this even development to mean stagnation of the developed while these others develop. I believe we do not need to invent hot water, we can look at how developed European countries function. I would like to remind you that Croatia is definitely the most centralised country in the EU after Greece, and developed European countries leave that added value at a local level of 30% to 40% while the state budget goes from 60% to 70%. Take the example of Germany, take the example of Denmark or Switzerland. The system in Croatia today is such that 90% of the total fiscal capacity goes to the state budget and 10% wastes to local communities, when I say so, I mean all municipalities, all cities and all counties. And if we separate the City of Zagreb from the 10%, which is about 5%, then we understand that all municipalities, cities and counties basically share only 5% of the fiscal capacity. And that's why we're where we are. The local community generates a total debt of 2% while the central state is at 97%. And I think it's clear where the problem lies. Furthermore, what I also want to point out is that the existing resource management system has proved inefficient. We have agricultural land, state agricultural land, we have forest land. Cities and municipalities lead so many disputes with the state foundation of the Law on Forests, so one level of administration with another level of administration is disputed as if we were not in the same country. And we spend both money and time on it. And right now, the local community, the local self-government, showed its effectiveness when it was passed by law in 2008 to issue construction and location permits at local level. We know what the backlogs used to be, and those backlogs aren't here today. And they're doing de facto the same people because civil service employees took over locally. Hence, there are positive examples of how we can manage processes faster, better, and more effectively. In this particular example, I'm talking about state property staring empty. It's no use to anyone, and time is running out. And when we talk about the local community, then we're talking about the basic needs of citizens who use it every day. Are children's kindergartens, whether they're schools, whether they're sports associations, cultural institutions, everything that funds the local budget. And we see the intensity, the momentum goes beyond that, let's still take away the funds from the local self-government and refer it to the central cashier, which I say once again at EU level after Greece's most centralised. We are also talking about European funds, how to improve the withdrawal of funds. We have good examples of practices like Poland, which have just been brought down by European funds to regional and local levels and have proved truly successful. I think it would be even better for us if we had just withdrawn funds from European funds to a regional level. But this bill, which will soon be discussed, and you will ultimately vote as a majority, goes to limit the amount of wages at regional and local level to 15% of the original revenues. And in principle, I think there's been a huge misunderstanding. Why? The law will definitely not affect most major cities. They're sure to hit smaller municipalities and it's basically your idea of fellow politicians from MOST to end the municipalities because you're going to take away their resources for work, but they're going to get killed by our counties. Why am I saying that? I will take an example from Istria's county of one of the most developed and one that has proven to be very capable of working and withdrawing funds from the EU. By limiting salaries to 15% of original incomes, without consulting neither the Association of Countys, nor the Association of Cities, nor the Association of Municipalities, and I don't think that this is the European way of passing the law, it will mean that people who deal with project-writing funds and who withdraw these funds from European funds simply have to cut or fire. Why? Because the funds withdrawn from the European funds do not go into the mass of the original revenues based on which the percentage is calculated. And that's wrong for you, I think that's one way of thinking from some of the former systems. When someone locked themselves in a room he said it would be 15, why isn't 13, why isn't it 17, why isn't it 10. No consulting, no calculations, but it has to be because that's what MOST colleagues decided. And that really looks like a blackmail to me. I think it would be a lot fairer to say, let's do a cost benefit analysis, let's see how much each public administration employee contributes to the charge of the budget, and on that basis calculate how much money can be allocated for salaries or why perhaps colleagues when you take over government at the state level. And I get the feeling that you forgot where you came from so quickly, from the local community, why you didn't first start to sort out the state of the state of red tape. But no, let's go to another local community where citizens meet their needs most, let's cut them down even less. I don't think that's good. You know, we say in Istria that we're too small to be average, we strive for excellence. I'd like our country to think the same way because in the world contexts, we're not too big to afford mediocrity either. And I don't think it's good to use it. We have invested in agriculture in our county for years, stimulated farmers for years. Here we are today in the process of harvesting olives and we have one of the world's best olive oils, because we are seeking excellence. I wish that's the way you think. And one more thing I would like to point out when we talk about funding regional and local self-government, we should also respect certain specificities of certain areas. Istria is bilingual, it is one standard, but it costs something, but we have decided to develop that standard, develop civic values, protect minority rights, we have decided to develop the county politically so that the offices of the county are not located in one center but in almost all Istrian cities. I wish that was the way Croatia thinks. It doesn't have to be all centralized, it doesn't have to be everything right here in Zagreb. And finally, I believe that no minister comes from Istria County, I will not say Istria, Lošinj has historically approached Istria, but indeed there is no minister in Istria. I believe that one of the most developed regions in this country has a very good offer of quality personnel, but I want to believe that this is not the message of a new prime minister on the relationship of this government to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1088	I'd like to thank the representative. The first to report for the replica is Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1089	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague, you are here as a regional party rightly showing the interests of your area, but you did not go in such a way as to characterise that because of ideological differences you do not want to participate in this government because obviously Istria as a developed area, the most developed in the Republic of Croatia, obviously used a lot of benefits, only because it had a number of ministers, which developed, it is dear to me, while other areas are much more underdeveloped, which have literally no living conditions or communal, and literally have no people not where to work, but where to live. The taste of your story that MOST is against the county, absolutely incorrect. MOST is not against your county. Say, if you want to be a region, we want to be a parent. That's what you're saying. Well, a little bit of you would like to be autonomy. Croatia must have a balanced development, you accepted from the IDS of Istria. You manage it like it's your pastry. It needs to be a steady development of all ends. Go a little lower towards Lica, Gorski Kotar, Dalmatia Zagora, and I expect Slavonia from the new government to put as much effort as possible and to reach at least part of the standards that you have. We have empty spaces of those parts that threaten not only demographically, it's threatened where there are no people but national security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1090	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1091	Well, Mr. Bulj, first of all listen to your members saying so you'll see if it's true or not true when I'm talking about your idea of abolishing the Istrian County. The other thing I'm going to do again, so you deny me, I would really like to be wrong, but your ministers, former economy minister, the current interior minister, and since things are standing, are pushing for the abolition of the Istrian Police Administration, join the River. The programs exist, I don't know why you're doing it. Also, your former Economy Minister, who has authority over HEP, pushes a project to shut down the Elektroistria and attach to the Elektroprimorje, without any arguments, without any bases. It's your political decision, if you say we're not in favour of abolishing the Istrian county but you're doing everything you can to do it then that's what they say is not-not-not, there's another expression. When you say Istria was built, so Istria didn't build any IDS, no politics, no government, and Istria was primarily built by hardworking people, they built Istria. Surely our policy in the last 25 years has given us a certain tone. But I think, at least that's how we should act if we're in some company or state that that pulling department, which is advanced, should give it extra stimulant. I believe Istra can do even better. But what? What's good for Istria, I believe it's good for Croatia as well. And I'll remind you that according to the calculation of our Zagreb Institute of Finance, Istria pays more than 800 million kuna a year more than it returns. We are solid, we want to help others, we help and we help.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1092	I thank you for your reply to the replica. The next person to report for the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1093	Thank you. I would like to say that Mr Miletic speaks correctly when he says that the problem in Croatia is the centralisation of power. However, it is not only a problem that power is relatively centralized but also that these people who have centralized it are corrupt and that is why we today have a country that is undeveloped and burdened with all possible influences, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1094	Thank you. The next representative to report for the replica is representative Ana Komaric Devčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1095	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, fellow Miletic, you mentioned that one of the reasons you won't support this government is that the police administration in Pula is abolished and is moving to Rijeka. Now, we're just gonna see what happens. But what seems worse to me than all of that, and MOST colleagues are always talking about undeveloped areas, about islands, about taking care of such areas. According to this same programme and plan, everything is being abolished in all Croatian islands and summers and winters. Which means our islands are going to be absolutely out of police stations, which seems awful to me. And so much for the speed and demagogy of colleagues from MOST. Whether the police station will be in Pula or Rijeka, or headquarters, the problem is in 5 regions. The same police station will cover the area to the Maslenica Bridge, along all the islands. And we know what this means in the tourist season and what will be the problems that will arise if such a reform is implemented under the MOST system. And it seems to me like pure demagogue when we talk about centralised and decentralisation. This is an example of centralization.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1096	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1097	So surely we should look at what it means from a security point of view, knowing that tourism generates about 18% of Croatian GDP, which is very much, I think as much as we are glad to have developed tourism that this share must be slightly concerned. And when I talk about tourism, we can see what's going on in the environment. Therefore, it is necessary to conduct a very hand-to-hand approach to security and security. But on the other hand, I'm going to do it again, it's all happening without any public debate. As I understand it, Mr. Prime Minister Plenkovic is in favour of a public debate but fellow coalition partners from MOST do not allow it. If we are talking about democracy or how you like to talk about national interests, I don't see why such an important reform doesn't first discuss publicly, see what are the specificities of certain areas and then, if it needs to go into reform, go into reform. It didn't happen, this is a political decision from some cabinet, some body we don't even know who's making it all up and I think it's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1098	I'd like to thank the representative. The next person to report for the replica is MP Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1099	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Miletic, your discussion of the county primarily prompted me to report. And I'm going to read you something that I've got a special eye on from the government's work plan, which is regional and local units as drivers of a new development cycle. A particular emphasis will be placed on fiscal and professional strengthening of units of local and regional and regional self-government. A sentence that is, I believe we can agree and I must say, I'm glad that we have a government program that looks like something rather than a picture book from the last time, so this is something that we can agree on in principle. But what I'd like to say is that the counties in this form that exist now actually need to ask ourselves what their ultimate role is. I agree with what you say that municipalities, cities and counties are the first to be the service of citizens and closest to citizens, most easily and most often addressed by citizens but the counties and their fiscal capacities are primarily extremely limited. So if I'm not mistaken, the only original county income is a motor vehicle tax which, in total, is not a significant figure. Nor are they all in the same position dear colleagues, you come from a region that has been extremely developed and we have had opportunities to read in the media a map of poverty made in Croatia. So it is from the region from which I come from Slavonia, as many as 3 out of 5 counties are among the worst Brod-Posaviska, Vukovar-Srijemska and Virovitica-Podravska County. Now if I were bad now I'd tell you who's in power in those counties since when there are but I'm not bad, you know that. But what I would like to say is that we should certainly discuss how counties work, how they work, what their budgets are and what their role is. Finally, in the debate that will follow, I want to hear the answers to these questions, so when we talk about reforming local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1100	The next person to report for the replica is representative Bozo Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1101	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Dear fellow Minister Miletic, you are at the beginning of your presentation and before you state the reasons why you will not support this government that the basic reason for ideological differences and different values therefore represented by your club and partners who support this government. But don't you realize, in fact, that partnership in this government is made up of different parties and groups of MPs, including national minorities, who share I would say different ideological and secular views? And that's perfectly legitimate and that shouldn't be the reason that we in Croatia are in part on that basis today. Actually, it's time to finally leave it behind and two. The world war and all the problems that have happened in this country and in this society and to turn to the future and to the 21st century. So that would ask you what are the valuable differences your club shares in relation to this government that are presented in this program? Is this a market economy, social and fair that represents this government in the programme? Is that solidarity health, do you have that difference? Is that eradicating poverty and the dignified pensions they write in the program? Is it the integration of Croats outside Croatia into the social and political life of Croatia? Is this an even development of all parts of Croatia? Is it a protection of family values, is it childcare and neglect? Is this an effective fight against corruption? Everything that is in this programme and which represents fundamental values that today seek all... democracy in the world. And as for the Minister of the Istrian County, if you supported the government, maybe that's something you could talk about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1102	Thank you, counsel. Reply to the replica Boris Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1103	Well, you see, sir, IDS is certainly one of the most permanent parliamentary parties in Croatia and so for 25 years because we are credible and consistent. We in our pre-election program have made it clear that our right hand is not a desirable partner and we stick to it. But when you talk about values, and let's not forget that both this government and the HDZ and MOST governments have changed, but these are two political groups that will now form the government. That your minister said that antifascism was a flossula, that you endangered civil rights, that you went to freedom of the media, that you abolished the funding of minorities something that we in Istria are very sensitive to. Because when we talk about anti-fascism and I really don't like to go back in those days, I want to talk about the future, but it's just unacceptable to us because obviously someone doesn't know enough history, doesn't know enough Istrian anti-fascism, and that he just attached Istria to Motherland. And when a minister speaks of it like that, he denies our existence and part of Istria in Croatia. That's what this is about, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1104	Thanks for the reply to the replica. The next representative to report for the replica is representative Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1105	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow MP, it would refer to this comment of yours that precisely because of the legislation to be voted upon by the MOST team, you are essentially losing funds to finance the salaries of people who withdraw funds from EU funds and for what you have said to be one of the most successful counties. Well, I'd go in a row. So you should know, in this case, that precisely those who are successfully involved in withdrawing funds from the EU funds finance their salaries and finance exactly from that project for which they have withdrawn funds. We're talking about a period of 12 to 18 months. So quite enough to prepare new documentation, withdraw funds, and therefore pay for the next period. And if you fail to do this project and you do not withdraw the funds for what you intend, or the salaries of your people who work for you then you have other EU funds, or through the employment policy measures of people who are dealing with the writing of projects, you can finance through youth measures for the EU, assistance in individual projects and community assistance. We are also talking about a period of 6 to 12 months, i.e. financing a gross salary of 100%, i.e. when the period is more than 12 months, 50%. So I'm asking you next time you decide to tell the truth about the MOST team that at least check what you're saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1106	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1107	Well, I don't know, co-workers. I've been doing these jobs in town for 10 years, and before that, five more at the Istrian divorce agency. Maybe you know a lot better than I do. But one is the preparation of projects and the other is the implementation of them. Why are we in Istria successful? Because we've invested money in young educated people who we've further educated how to do it. But you're still afraid of the pears and apples. One is our departments that prepare projects, and the other is after the projects are approved to go into realisation, the implementation of which within the project there is space for people who will implement these projects. But if that is not clear enough for you I will be free to invite you to Istria, come, we will be very happy to show you our experience of good practice that serves here many regions both from Croatia and beyond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1108	Thank you. The next person to report for the replica is Honorable Representative Drago Prgomet.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1109	Thank you very much. Dear ladies and gentlemen, although fellow Ljubic has already asked a question in part and replicated your opening statement in which you said that because of the great differences in the value system and ideological differences you cannot support this government. I can understand you. Your experience with some earlier governments is certainly such that it gives you the right to stand up like that. But I would like to remind you, and you well know what my opinion was about the last government that one of the main objections on my part would be the lack of electoral legitimacy. So this government has an electoral political legitimacy precisely at the values it represented, which are the values of modern European conservatism and liberal democracy. And you know well what values come from these principles, which are truth, honor, respect for family, respect for individuals, dignity, freedom and equality of people. And finally, what the mandater has said several times is tolerance and dialogue. And I really believe that we will bridge our differences with the dialogue we are experiencing and consider not as a sign of weakness, but as a way to get to the very necessary community at this point in the Republic of Croatia. So I believe that time will deny what you may be afraid of and that without monopolizing you will go to one of the values of anyone, either on the left or on the right, you really get a good social climate for the successful work of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1110	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1111	Well, I would really like the actions of the future government to deny the words I said at the pay phone. I would really like to be wrong, if this country were really decentralisation, to lower powers, responsibilities, but also give tools, mechanisms so that the local community could be even more effective, even more successful. And so the state could be cheaper, because the tax burden of our economy is high. But experience also teaches us to be careful. It wasn't that long ago when the HDZ government abolished the Istrian Statute where we had to fight in the Constitutional Court for five years. For what? For having the right to bilingualism. And who does that bother today? I don't think it bothers anyone that we've advocated that Istria has its own solemn song. And today it is perfectly normal to play the Croatian anthem and the Istrian anthem on the occasion of the ceremony, which we have advocated the rights of minorities, which we have advocated for politic development. What we were the first region to join the Assembly of European Regions and promote European values, and then we were condemned to be some kind of anti-Croatian elements, the Italians that we were not already called again by those who absolutely do not know the history of Istria. Yeah, our ideological differences are different. I believe that today it is normal to be a member of the EU, and at that time it was very strange that you would get close to these values.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1112	Thank you. The next club is the Club of Representatives of the SDSS which is involved in the debate. Their representative, Milorad Pupovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1113	Dear Mr. President, dear Mr. Plenkovic, Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The programme of government that we have received is indeed comprehensive in thematic and thematic aspects and in terms of objectives. In this regard, I will single out some parts and in the name of the Independent Democratic Serb Party club and only talk about those parts in view of the restrictions we have. Before that, I would like to highlight a few things that seem important to me for the purpose of the new government's policy and for the purpose of the new Parliament's policy. I understand these things as some kind of imperative which is an assumption of the success of us as a legislative body and the success of the new government. The first thing is to stop producing negative energy as it has been done in the last five years. And that society is exhausting and wasting its energy on things that only have damage. And finally turn to the production of positive energy and create a positive climate in society, a positive political climate that will be a presumption for the realisation of policies that the country needs. Secondly, I think that another important imperative is to stop the trend of restricting pluralism and producing intolerance, because in the past five years there is still an attempt to limit pluralism, total pluralism. Pluralism of interest, pluralism looks at the world, pluralism of arguments, pluralism of rights, and at the same time return to society that will be based on the greatest values of tolerance. Here in the final texts of the government programme, we are talking about the fight against totalitarianism. I agree that we should face the past, but we should face the present in particular the elements of the past that live in the present and limit our pluralisms and limit our potentials. And colleagues who have pointed out some historical values that are particularly insisted on by colleagues from Istria, but also by other political parties such as antifascism, must have their right to citizenship in their political system and in the minds of citizens. I would also like to say that from the perspective of the fundamental values of the Croatian Constitution and also the interests of national minorities that minorities are not only the wealth of society but are an active part of society, that they are an active part of its policy, that they are an active part in co-decision and participation. In other words, we are perceived as being equal and in giving opinions and in participating in decision-making. It can't be if one representative of national minorities or two or three state their opinion that it's the subject of stigmatisation. As in previous debates about the formation of the government, even to this day, it is the subject of stigmatization. Both Radin and Pupovac are equal representatives in this House no matter what anyone thinks, as well as anyone else. And the government's attempt to go through with a few MPs or to take away the right to speak is inadmissible, mentality and inadmissible political conditions. I'm talking about minorities now, tomorrow I can talk about any other club or any other political group. As far as the basic goals that I want to say are concerned, I think they're good to recognize. What I would add to the first fundamental objective is the conditions of business and is the fight against corruption. So, not only the administrative, technical or any other obstacles facing people when it comes to the achievement of efficient business, investment and rapid access to business opportunities in Croatia, but I think it is also very important to fight corruption. Because it is at different levels of serious impediment, still a serious obstacle to both business and investment and sustainable business and equal business. The other thing I want to say is that it is good to recognise economic growth and economic growth bearers such as agriculture, and it is good to point out that agriculture is first and foremost. That tourism, as he already has, is as we have heard, and the industry which is particularly devoted to attention when it comes to re-industrialisation. Mr. Prime Minister, on behalf of our club, I am free to suggest more energy and infrastructure. Because these are areas where Croatia has not only huge needs but also huge potentials. The development of industry and the overall infrastructure in Croatia can be a generator of huge growth, while the need for economic growth throughout the country as well as the issue of energy is necessary. Some of the later parts pay a relatively significant attention to this, but I think it is also necessary to highlight it as the main generators of growth in our country. The efficiency of institutions, also an extremely important priority when the objectives are fundamental. Because our institutions, as we know, are unfortunately not in good shape. They're neither functional, nor tuned, nor trained. But this is not just about institutions that will serve entrepreneurs and business people, it is about institutions where the state rests and where the credibility of the state is checked. One such institution is Parliament and its laws. With all due respect, but the experiment we have these days when it comes to the functioning of Parliament and the adoption of the law is not a contribution to strengthening the institution or parliamentaryism or legality. For this reason, we should also learn something from this, and we should go towards strengthening institutionality, while institutions are not just tents, institutions are a strong paragraph, regulations. The awareness of this fact with us and in our society is extremely low. Very often that's why people say paper suffers everything, it's something on paper. It can be written in stone as it was written, it can be written in paper or in electronic form as it is written today, but that's it. That's the rule. And no rules. The law has no institutions. An increase in education isolation to 2% is something to be welcomed and science is something to be hailed for. Because the state we have up to 1% is unsustainable and harmful and there is no assumption that education and science are generators of growth, being generators of strengthening human potentials as you said to Mr. Plenkovic unless it strengthens and increases the isolation for science and education. We welcome and support balanced regional development and adoption of the Law on Supported Areas and at the same time the creation of the Regional Development Fund. We ask you to take care of the fact that the areas in which national minorities from Hungary and Serbs live in the east via Roma in the Western Slavonia area are still until Dalmatia that the areas that are most underdeveloped are. And that you should take special care of it. Without any privileges but with full awareness that it is thus jeopardising the survival of members of national minorities in these areas because of the extremely low development that generates low unemployment, which generates a marked neglect and for this reason we will propose that, with these two mechanisms, the Law on Regional Development... the Fund, proposes a third mechanism for regional development which will change this. In order for these issues of balanced regional development as well as all the issues mentioned in your programme when the exercise of the rights of national minorities can be achieved, participation is necessary. In this government there will be no members of national minorities, but it is necessary to ensure that national minorities are participated at different levels of government functioning because exclusion, which is the current state of affairs, exclusion from government institutions, exclusion from employment policies that can be justified, can be proved in fact without any bad thought or conspiracy that is bad in its intention is something that can only be changed by participation. And it's actually a concrete way of contributing to affirmative policy and affirmative achievement of minority rights. As far as the program is concerned, it is a different degree of specificity. There are parts that are very specific, there are parts that are less concrete. What we expect is that, in the design of the Government's operational programme, all parts of this programme, the Government will receive adequate concreteity and those concerning labour, labour law, labour markets and all of these aspects which are vital to economic development on the one hand, and on the other hand to achieve workers' rights and employment. Therefore, it is simply necessary to know what flexibility means when it comes to employment, which means that it will be extended that some people can, if they have health permits, work for more than 65 years. So we would think that it's extremely important to have this operationally and in the operational part of the program worked out. There are four ministers in your government who have enviable economic skills, economic knowledge and economic biography behind them, not to name them now. We know them all well, even the ones I know a little less well. It is an outstanding potential and an indicator that your government wants as one of the important things to have an economy issue and we welcome it. That's what this country needs. What's important is the issue of economic policy that we haven't had in all these years. From what we could read, there are assumptions that Croatian economic policy is forming. From what is unclear is what will be the relationship between fiscal and monetary authorities as an important assumption of future economic policy. But if economic policy is formed with this capacity that you have and with your leadership, then you will do what we who have been in Parliament for longer, we do not know and we do not remember that any government has done so far, and that is imperative for this country. Finally, the HDZ, MOST and SDSS club are politically, ideologically very different in a number of policies and in a number of ideas, but we will be partners in this government, we will support, cooperate and show that despite the differences, partnership is possible and that we will correct ourselves in places where it is necessary and complement things where it is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1114	Thank you very much. And your exposure caused several replicas. She is the first to be the respected representative of Zeljko Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1115	Dear colleagues. The rule of law, our mouths are full of democracy, our human rights, some here in the Parliament longer than Saddam Hussein ruled. What did we do? Corruption is a wormhole... Croatian countries. What do we got here? There are people who are certainly involved in conflicts of interest, there are millions of money there in Swiss banks and elsewhere. How many years does it lose its GDP by a percentage through corruption? Does he have that kind of information? What's the synergy between the Justice Department, the police? What kind of country do we have? We actually have Guatemala just have more of that color television. A nonstop spins that question, and that would agree with Mr. Pupovac on one issue, this is a dysfunctional state, there is no rule of law. We have hundreds of thousands of pending cases in the courts. Second question, yes, minorities. What about the Croatian minority? What about Boca Kotarsk? The gentleman from Istria is gone, by the way? Villages up in... in Slovenia who's talking about it? Who's talking about an empty face where it was in '41? 132,000 Croats, now half of them are gone. Where did these people go? Who's going to bring people back to a country where they don't respect the signed contract, where 7% of the land is introduced into land books? Who will invest in such a land? 490,000 Croats demand a return of property seized in '45. For years, it's not the past, it's the present. Where are those people? Where are those half a million Germans, 6 thousand possessions of the Volksdeutcher? They were taken away in the former state by most of the land... which today is worth $11 billion. Where are these people, who are talking about them, who are representing them, etc., etc.? In terms of cultural space, I'm going to extend a little bit here, we've had enough of the propaganda from the former Yugoslavia, from Zagreb... to the HAC etc. And that's where I can't support this government, but that's the key question. We've had enough of these... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1116	Thank you very much. The next replica, the esteemed representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In your presentation, you spoke of a very bad relationship in the past term towards minorities and the media, and I think it will be the first test by Mr Plenkovic and his team to refer to the media, whether we will continue to watch a conservative revolution that attacks the streets of the Council for Electronic Media because it does not suit them, whether to deny the continued financing of Serbian weekly Novosti, whether to continue to deny co-financing of the only Italian daily La Voca, whether to endanger the business of Edita, which even the textbooks have not been paid. Are we going to listen to the disastrous statements of HDZ MPs that I have to quote about co-financing of Italian media and Serbian. It says when the media of the national minorities bow to one political option, they stop fulfilling the purpose of co-financing, so I would say Vukelic, a Rijeka HDZ official, that it is not the government's decision not to finance but rather the decision itself. So I hope that the new culture minister will also have a different relationship with the media, according to minorities and according to the Rijeka Theatre, to remind you of dear colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian drama of the Rijeka Theatre did not receive a single kuna because the former minister estimated that it was not enough Croatian.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1118	The esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1119	Dear counterpart Jovanovic, as regards our current discussion with HDZ President and Prime Minister Plenkovic on the rights of national minorities, we and our colleagues with whom we have discussed it and what it says in the government programme, this is a guarantee that that kind of policy that marked the past period and that relationship with minorities marking the past period will remain behind us. As far as the media in the government's programme is concerned, as you can read, it is clear that the values of pluralism, professionalism and media independence and partnership with those institutions that can be the bearers of alternative media and these are the institutions of civil society. The government programme particularly highlights the partnership so with religious communities, with minorities and with civil society actors, it is a huge difference between the government's programme, that I am now not defending it here is Mr. Plenkovic, he will do it better, he is more invited than I am. But I'm telling you as someone whose club has made a decision to maintain this program and I'm giving you examples that contribute to the fact that our support decision is not baseless.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1120	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1121	Dear colleague Pupovac. I think that in Croatia, especially where you often use and emphasize the word of endangered national minorities. I do not know in which state as in the Republic of Croatia national minorities have this many rights. I would be happy if the Croatian national minority in Serbia, Bosnia, where we are threatened, unfortunately as a constituent people, had the same rights. I am proud of what national minorities have in Croatia rights but to stress in continuity in the areas that people of Serbian nationality where I live together with them have been threatened only by the political elites who have represented them so far. Unfortunately, where I live, this is what I tell you most seriously, I am daily with people from the Serb national minority and the Croatian national minority. We have areas where Croats only live, have no water supply of 20 km d Split, examples of Ilvo, Vrgorački kraj, Sinjska kraj. Also you when you were in power before, during Sanader's government in the village... complete infrastructure... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] electrical, which is good, but it was for a few people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] While ending with the Croatian life where thousands of people live, where I personally live, where your countrymen live, who I am proud of, many of whom have taken up arms and defended this country together in the Homeland War. I'm saying this really because I find it hard to listen to the story and the theory that minorities in Croatia are threatened. Where, in which parliament are there more MPs in percentage than in Croatian? I would ask Mr. Pupovac to list a parliament where there are more minority representatives than in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1122	The esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1123	Dear counterpart Bulj, there is a Romanian national parliament that has more representatives than Croatian and I could count Finland for you and I could count many other countries. But we are not here because the problems of minorities are not only solved by MPs in the Parliament, nor are MPs in the Parliament an indicator of how good or bad minorities are. If you want to be honest, if everything we're looking for were settled for members of the national minorities, maybe we'd say thank you for your representation in the Parliament, but that's far from it. And that is why I will tell you that those rights that Serbs in Croatia do not wish for Croats in Serbia. And because you don't know what the rights of Serbs in Croatia are or imagine to know or measure it only by the number of MPs in the Assembly then you are very wrong. You're wrong about your own conscience because you're an honorable man and you reach for things you don't know about and they're not just a question of rights, they're a matter of elemental morality. As far as reelectrication is concerned, go to Banija and see what the average Croatian village looks like and the average Serbian village. I don't care that they have Croatia, but it hurts that not everyone else does. The same goes for Dalmatia. And as far as Sanader is concerned, we are not in a different position today in 2016 than we were in 2003 and in terms of the parliamentary position, so the support we give as we did in 2003, and also in terms of real circumstances. As someone said in 2003, Christ was born, and today many villages still lack water and electricity and that is reality.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1124	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1125	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Professor Pupovac, so I believe that since you come yourself from the education sector that one of the reasons why you and you support this government is this sentence in the program "The government will implement education reform in accordance with the best European practice." So I believe that it means that the curricula reform goes on but that it goes on without a soul-care professional who comes from different world-class miles and that we are really talking about the highest European standards and that the fact that this document is signed by the future government and the mandater means that we will still see education reform in one normal quality form. I agree with you that it is the main, that the precondition for real education, increase for education and science, is an increase to 2% of the issue from the budget. But let me, in the spirit of what I mentioned earlier, quote italian Calvin, an Italian journalist and writer who said: “The country that destroys its education never does it because of money, because of the lack of funds or because free education burdens the budget. No, one country that destroys education is ruled by those who fear the spread of education. Because the uneducated people are more easily manipulated." I hope that we will continue to reform education, that we want to make it better and better because our citizens as well as members of all minorities who have a home in Croatia are educated for work, but are also thinking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1126	The esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1127	Dear counterpart Hajdukovic, if only that sentence were in that department concerning education and science, that would be far from enough, from the necessary, necessary, let alone enough for my party and I to support this programme of government. Of course that's not enough, nor is this projection of growth and isolation for education and science up to 2% in the budget. Well, there's a whole series of other educations that indicate, say science what they haven't had in years. Therefore, these are the reasons why we want to do this, and as far as curricular reform is concerned, we will be among those who, as I have said in the opening part of my presentation, will protect the adoption of all forms of programmes and policies of the government in which the world-wide aspect is most viewed, such as the issue of education, such as the question of culture, such as the question of some other policy areas in which we will insist on our partnership with the Prime Minister, with the Government that there is no ideological monopoly, there is no extraterrestrial exclusion and there is no return to traditionalism and to conservativeity when education is in the context of the past periods. Because then it can't be the generator of human potential as rightly says Mr. Plenkovic. And I am convinced that what he says will include all those who can contribute to this, including those who have done so in the past period and who have received very, very massive public and citizens support, including the last 40, 50,000 people who have come with children to support them in Ban Jelačić Square. And it must be necessary for this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1128	Thank you. The next is a replica of the esteemed representative of Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1129	Dear fellow Pupovac, I fully support you as far as minorities are concerned that they should have all the rights as everyone else. However, in your presentation, it was mentioned, not only in yours and others, about anti-fascism. Yeah, for me it's anti-fascism, it's what historians need to solve for communism and anti-fascism. For me, Croatia was created in the 1990s with our defenders, not anti-fascists. An anti-fascist from Serbia attacked us and our Croatians defended us. So let's let the historians handle it. As far as minorities are concerned, I would like the Croatian minorities in Serbia to have the same rights as you have here. I'm sorry your villages aren't finished and they don't have the power and everything else to have. However, did our villages, I come from Bosnia and Herzegovina where there are honestly 140 thousand people, did you go to Banja Luka and see these politicians, try to convince that this people should return to their parts? Have you visited villages and seen not that they have no water but from their wood houses grows, but they are forests and not more houses? I hope you're aware and a good politician that if you haven't done it before, I don't know, but I can see that around Banja Luka there were 65 thousand Croats, and five thousand today is not living, and not to mention, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, not even ten thousand have returned. Why is Slavonia poor? You know we've brought the most weight of the war, and at least we've won. The truth and from our Slavonic politicians who didn't know how to use it so far. And I hope that this government, headed by Plenkovic, will pay particular attention to Slavonia. Slavonia hosted so many refugees, it all reflected the state that we now have, and the truth about the incompetent politicians who led it today and didn't know how to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1130	Thank you. The esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1131	Dear counterpart Misic, I am convinced, as we heard from the speech of the prime minister and, as the government's programme said, and also about the government law that this government will pay considerable attention to the position of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that it will dedicate a significant government to Croatian minorities in other parts of the former Yugoslavia and elsewhere. We representatives of national minorities, including Serbia's, not that we will not be an obstacle, but we will be a supporter of that. And as for the comparison, what I told my colleague Bull, I can tell you, too. Don't compare accidents because it doesn't solve accidents. That's all we do is manipulate and fall into a serious moral trap that we won't come out of as more moral people. I've also visited Posavina and Dervent and Brod, and I've seen what you've seen. And I saw what I see in Croatia. I don't know how you, how others, but since the first day of the 1990s, I've been against the policy that had it in mind and that purpose has realized it. And I was against politics for people from central Bosnia, Croats to settle in Serbian areas in Croatia, and for Serbs to be prevented from returning. And what we can fix is we can fix it when we can't stop it and do it. And so we speak as we say, not to limit the rights of others in other places, but to set an example of how in one place the right can be achieved, so let it be in another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1132	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1133	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In your presentation, you mentioned the economic policies and the importance of them to the overall economic growth and development of Croatia, and thus the chance for all Croatian citizens. We know that in the EU, the liberal democracy on which the EU based its economic policies is stagnating and that a new vision of society's development must be found. That's what I expect from the new government. Congratulations to the Prime Minister and to all future ministers on giving young people who have a vision for growth and development, who are far from the current political elites and cannot reach this stage of decision-making and that economic growth and new economic policies are based on knowledge, on investing human capacities and on withdrawing European money, and much more importantly through the social economy that needs to be a framework for protection and rights and the chances of farmers and workers and craftsmen to protect their families and create a new chance for youth employment in both Slavonia and Baranja. Because in an equally difficult position are all categories and all national minorities and all people in Slavonia and Baranja and other undeveloped regions, and here I see a chance for the new growth and development of the Republic of Croatia. And I am pleased that the future prime minister, or Prime Minister, has highlighted the Slavonia programme and we expect a lot of this programme and that this will give us a chance to hire all young people in Slavonia and Baranja, all vulnerable groups, including national minorities. What do you think about that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1134	Thank you. The esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1135	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, first of all, as far as liberal policies and its limitations are concerned, particularly in the neoliberal form. They are visible and sensitive, they are given to see and to feel on the skin especially when it is due to the production of inequality, and this production of inequality generates a limit to growth and development, and this is today in the world and also in Croatia more than visible. But that must not be the reason to be against liberal political ideas, against the civil liberal values of freedom and rights, because then we will make the same mistake as when we talk about nationalism that nationalism is necessarily always and everywhere evil. Or when I talk about socialism that socialism is always necessary and everywhere evil. It's not. So what we need is pluralism in the opinion, pluralism in attitudes, pluralism in ideas as an assumption of political and thus total wealth. What I believe is that like you and we support it is the government's focus that exactly in agriculture recognizes one of the generators of growth. As for most members of the national minorities who live in areas that depend on the development of agriculture, we welcome it, and in this matter we will, if you should also be partners with you as an important party in Croatia's political life, which agriculture is among the first and most important priorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1136	Thank you very much. They would now move to the next club of MPs, which is the HDZ Representatives' Club on behalf of which they will speak the esteemed representative Branko Bačić. Just colleagues and colleagues before I draw attention to you. According to the registered speakers without a single replica, it would take nine hours to do all of this, plus the replicas. Just so you know, you're about to figure out how long we're gonna stay here. Here's my colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1137	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the government's programme for this period by 2020 as well as its composition. What I want to say at the beginning is that only by naming the Government is the conclusion and completion of the electoral process. To this day, although we have been established, the constitutional deadlines of the Law on the Selection of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament are still ongoing, and we will practically conclude this election process this afternoon by choosing the Government. And he himself began on July 16th when the president of the Republic of Croatia called early elections to elect representatives to the Croatian Parliament. If we look back on the political climate that preceded the early elections, then we will remember that it was dominantly marked by the political crisis, by not voting confidence then and now with the technical Croatian government, by self-disbanding the Parliament, that it was the time and time that preceded it the times of ideological conflicts and ideological divisions and the absence of communication among the main political actors in Croatia. I'd say it was a time of imperceptibility for Croatia. So what happened happened and the president of the Republic of Croatia was scheduled for early elections. Croatia needed a second policy and other political actors. That's what happened. First of all, in HDZ, the election of Andrej Plenkovic changes the political atmosphere in Croatia. I would say that the policy he has brought through the HDZ in the election campaign, which the policy is sublimed and in this election programme points to a policy of inclusiveness, a policy of enlargement and culture of political dialogue, recognition of other and different, recognition of rights, and minority rights and other rights, that this is a policy that opens communication to political rivals, I did not tell political opponents but political opponents. And that is what essentially determines the present political climate in Croatia from the one that was only 94 days ago in Croatia. That's why we at the HDZ Club think it's already a good reason to consider the entire assembly of this House when it makes a decision on the vote and trust of the government of Andrej Plenkovic. Its election programme and HDZ programme, which received its support and its confirmation in the September elections, has been translated into a government programme that we have here today. The programme is complete, enriched and programed by MOST and national minorities. And he's just as we got on the benches and as presented by Mr. Prime Minister. It is based on the 4 key objectives we hold that in the mandate ahead of us this government can achieve. The first is to achieve stable and sustainable economic growth, create new and quality jobs, stop emigration and demographic restoration and social justice and solidarity, ensuring that the benefits of economic work and development are felt by all classes of society. However, these are the declared objectives which can be written but for whose achievement it is necessary to detect key areas and measures from which such economic growth can then arise and other specifics of this programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia can also be achieved. In the first row, I would say, although this was not put first in the programme as a key segment, it is macroeconomic stability, the long-term sustainability of public finances and the balance of budgets and the reduction of public debt. This is what I believe is the basis which, if realized, can then enable all these other measures that this programme implies to be realized. I believe that in the economic portfolio of the government presented by Mr Plenkovic, there is sufficient and potential of professional, reformal, which is not less important, to continue with the programme that counterpart Maric started in this mandate and which marks GDP growth in the second quarter by 2.8%, a reduction in the deficit of the state budget. On that trail, I believe that this is the basis for entering another very important area, which is tax reform. I believe that tax reform will solve many of the issues that we have just heard here from the presentation of colleagues and representatives of clubs. In fact, through tax reform, which primarily implies tax stability in the Republic of Croatia, that we do not experience a situation that since the income tax law was passed and VAT law to change 45 times. Therefore, the stability of the tax system and the tax discharge of citizens should be two basic characteristics that define this tax reform. And the third segment in that is fiscal decentralisation. The funds that are now dominated by the state budget. We know that the Republic of Croatia is a centralised state and in terms of power but also in terms of resources. It is unacceptable that only 12 or 13% of the funds collected from citizens end up in the budgets of the county or local self-government units. Therefore, this fiscal decentralisation should be made because it can allow the tax discharge of citizens. We can talk about reducing income tax but then we will question the funding of units of local and regional self-government and then this fiscal decentralisation that we are talking about is important. In this regard, we are talking about strong regional development and I agree with what the prime minister initially said, which is that there is no strong and even regional development without strengthening the counties as units of local and regional self-government and through strengthening their development agencies that must enable better use of European funds. Another key area that I think is important and that I have to especially highlight in this short time, is the development of agriculture. We are witnessing the situation in Slavonia, and I am therefore pleased that the prime minister also mentioned the project Slavonia, which we discussed several times in the election campaign. The development of agriculture and this strong development of agriculture through the position of unused agricultural land, through better use of European funds. And in this sense, I also support the decision that key resources in the Government relating to the development of agriculture and rural development come from a minister who has proven very good quality when it comes to the withdrawal of funds from European funds and the lady who led the HRAST Regional Development Agency of Vukovar-Srijem County that in this way persons who know the issue of Slavonia can prove themselves precisely on this project that we have called the project Slavonia. Tourism is also one of the key areas for facilitating faster economic growth. What I want to look at in particular is energy and the transport link between the Republic of Croatia. I support the decision and we talked about it when we discussed the Law on the establishment of ministries and state-run administrative organisations, to find energy and environmental protection in one place. There must be a balance and consistency between development and environmental protection in each regulated country, both energy sector development and environmental conservation. I believe that in the government in which it is the same portfolio, this sustainable development will be very coherent and that this is a good decision when it comes to the formation of this government. As far as traffic connection is concerned, it was here earlier in the discussion of announcements that the program is not co-existent, that it is more concrete somewhere, that it is somewhere in principle. When it comes to transport strategic transport infrastructure, I welcome that the projects that we have instructed over the past few years as necessary projects to complete road connections in the Republic of Croatia are listed. In this sense, I welcome the mention of the construction of the Pelješko bridge, the completion of the construction of a full profile of the highway to Dubrovnik, investment in the sea and airports that is mentioned here, investment in the reconstruction of the waterways both Sava, so Drava and Danube, which continues to invest heavily in transport infrastructure. And I have already said this many times in this House, if the first 10 years of the 21st century were dominantly turned towards investing in road transport infrastructure in general by public means and by borrowing Croatian highways and Croatian roads then I am sure that in this decade where we are and which will largely end up with the work of this government, it must be dominantly addressed by investing in the energy sector by private funds without additional burden on the state budget and increasing public debt. That's what I'm reading from this program and I think it's certainly necessary to support it and to insist on it. When we talk about the first measures of the Croatian government, the future prime minister announced here, we are talking about the first major challenge it is an operational programme of the government that must develop all these measures listed in this mandate programme, the programme for this mandate of the Government. After that, there is a state budget that I believe will come very soon here on our benches. What is the challenge not only of the finance ministry but of the entire government is the 27 billion kuna we need to secure through the adoption of the 2017 state budget. It is on this document that the most important strategic document that we have before us that this government will show its maturity and ability to, in all of these specifics of this programme, which in a financial sense requires large resources from the state budget on the one hand and on the other hand, the obligation of the Republic of Croatia is to settle all its debts, and as I said earlier, they are not small, but large, the quality of both ministers and governments that I am confident we will choose today. I personally believe that with this composition and the choice of government or its members in which I read the experience, among which I read and know-how and youth, it is possible to implement all these measures that are very demanding here in this programme. And finally, I want to make it clear on behalf of our club that we will support this programme and that we also support the composition of the Croatian government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1138	Thank you very much. And your exposure has caused more replicas. She's the first one to represent Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1139	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here to begin with, Mr Bacic called in his debate to all support, to all MPs to consider supporting the Croatian government. I'll tell Mr. Bacic and based on your exposure, which is why I can't do it. One of the things you said the actors changed. The actors are identical, HDZ and MOST until 34 days ago, HDZ and Most today. Unless you think that by leaving Karamark and Hasanbegovic, so much has changed in HDZ that even the actors are no longer the same. Some may not be the same, but political parties are the same, HDZ and MOST. On the other hand, I cannot agree with you and in your discussion of support and of all ministers in the government, and I am particularly concerned about what the prime minister said in his presentation after his colleague Jovanovic referred him a question concerning the future minister of education and science, not a single word of what Mr Jovanovic said and what is written in the media these days. Is the prime minister standing, if what is true in the media, I don't know if it's true, but Mr. Plenkovic can tell if he knows, whether it's true, whether it's not true. Does he stand from a minister who thus left one of the previous Croatian governments and thus whether this person can send a message to young people who are standards of life, or how someone should behave in a society. That answer is to be received here today, and I expect from the mandate to say in his statement whether he knows whether it is true or not and whether he is behind the person who acts in this way, by his actions to be a future minister. That's why I can't support the government, and because of a lot of other things I'm going to say in my debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1140	Thank you. The honourable representative Branko Bačić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1141	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, I knew you were in favor of the government. It's up to your club to decide whether or not it will support and whether it will be held back. I think and that's what I said in my presentation that what was done through the election campaign, after the election campaign. After the election campaign, the way the government puts together a programme that is exposed leaves the opportunity for your club to decide on how I suggested it. As for the change of political actors, I think we agree that after no parliamentary elections in Croatia, there have been more shifts in the leadership of political parties in Croatia. And when I said there was a change between political actors, then I thought of it as a priority. Clearly, this assembly has been in place for 25 years, mostly two sides of the Parliament are equal, more or less, the central part of the assembly is changing. So you didn't think that I thought that the political scene had disappeared HDZ or SDP or some third strong political group in Croatia. And as for the answer that you believe was supposed to be given to Mr. Jovanovic by your commanding officer. We are still here today, as it has started for a long, long time, it is likely that another prime minister will turn over during the afternoon, so here's how he thinks he will respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1142	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1143	A fellow Bacic, you say, has led the elections to the political scene of new political actors, no, political actors are the same, MOST and HDZ. The new president of the HDZ is the new prime minister accordingly. The question is whether the fundamental question will change the values this government will represent in relation to the values represented by the government of these same actors. For example, whether a secular state will be nurtured or we will testify to the further matrimony of the church and politics and the use of the altar for political agitation. Whether to cultivate antifascism as one of the cornerstones of Croatian statehood or, as we have witnessed in the past, we will continue to see auditist philistine. Will educational reform come with 21st century education or medieval stupidity? Are we going to view culture as an endless field of creative freedom and not a cheap nationalist spine? Will we have the freedom of the media not only commercial but also non-profits or will further destroy them as with these same actors in the former government? Will we have the equality of sexual orientations under the flag of rainbow colors or the abolition of rights so far through a life partnership? It's a question of all the issues this government will cherish. If she cherishes these values that we stand for, she'll have my full support. If the same actors with the same policy continue, they can expect only stronger resistance.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1144	Thank you. The honourable representative Branko Bačić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1145	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You fellow Stazic seemed to have slept through this election campaign and everything that happened after the election campaign. I initially said that the Croats and that Croatia had a lot of ideological divisions. And by insisting on those differences that we, who are among us, are. And you are insisting on them today and looking for evidence of something that we have long ended and what I think every politician in Croatia who deals with politics can be determined by all these fundamental world-wide and ideological issues in Croatia. If you continue to do so, I do not mind, however, but you must be aware that this is becoming less and less interested in Croatian citizens, that they are increasingly interested in the future of Croatia, employment and new jobs, that these are the topics on which we should talk today and I think this programme gives us very much enough material to read about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1146	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Giovanni Sponza. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1147	Dear colleague, at the very beginning of your presentation, you said that unlike the last composition of the government, there is now a new, different political standard spoken and advocated by the candidate for Prime Minister. However, I would like to remind you that yesterday's candidate for the prime minister of the government of Most said that the difference between HDZ and the Most is as great as between heaven and country. We have a candidate for Prime Minister who calls for dialogue, including a MOST that implements exclusion. What does that indicate? It points out that since Croatian society is in general in a difficult economic, economic and social crisis, neither this composition of the government nor this assembly of the Parliament, we will all be unable to make the maximum contribution expected of us. And I would like to say that you are principled and credible because when you were in opposition and today you only advocate the necessary decentralisation of Croatia, which is rigidly centralized today. What we have discussed under the laws so far, what the MOST suggests is exclusively going towards additional centralisation, which is not good because the house is always built on solid foundations, which is decentralisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1148	Thank you. The esteemed representative Branko Bačić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1149	Dear counterpart Sponza, I did not read that statement by the Deputy Prime Minister, future Deputy Prime Minister of Mr. Kovacic, so you will have to refer this question to him to explain it to you. But what I want to tell you don't expect us and the Most to be the same. We are different, but it is important that we agree on important, important, strategic specifics of Croatia's future. And that's where we met. And neither the Most will be HDZ, nor the HDZ will be MOST, neither today nor in these four years ahead of us. As far as decentralisation is concerned, you know that the two of us are constantly in the Parliament and many other MPs are always saying the same thing, and that is that we need decentralisation of Croatia and I see it, I read it in this programme. That it is necessary to maintain this type of territorial structure in Croatia through fiscal decentralisation and strength and county and local self-government units. That's what I've been saying since day one, and that's what I said and now on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1150	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1151	A respected HDZ counterpart said HDZ would take the reform path i.e. that this government will be reforming. But what will this government be reforming for? We've seen from your morning show that it continues with the old detachment policy you've been running in the past. I also don't see any indication that you're going to stop your service policy towards Washington and Brussels. So it goes on, that's what you call a European route, that's the way America says you banish an official of a Russian embassy, you declare a man unwanted, and you banish him from the country. Either you send soldiers to the Russian border, or you send weapons to Syria and you support terrorists there, or you support, say, military actions in Libya that have caused chaos and a column of refugees who have no end. Also, here we have so-called. The Government of the Republic of Croatia programme, the key issue in this programme, ladies and gentlemen, is the issue of monetary policy. In this collection, I don't see a single point where monetary policy is even mentioned, let alone its reform. Everything and everything is also mentioned, and it is clear that everything depends essentially on monetary policy. So still the currency clause, still what you said was a European path, which is the eorization of the country, means depriving the country of every sovereignty and implementing all the directives that come from outside. Mr. Dear Informal Structures of Powers ruling our country will now continue to do so. And our country will continue to be managed outside your government. That's why I don't think it's appropriate for you to call this government reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1152	Thank you. The esteemed representative Branko Bačić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1153	My colleague Pernar, I appreciate your interest and the need to help people who are on difficult times in life but on the other hand respect the rule of law. And that was already answered by Mr. Plenkovic this morning. What I can only add is that this programme writes about measures that will go towards amending the executive law that will go towards the protection of primarily the only real estate of Croatian citizens in order to prevent enforcement of these properties. So let's let this government have some time to work, and then get a final assessment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1154	The next replica is the respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1155	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Bacic, I am very pleased that both the prime minister and you in his speech but also future Minister Žalac stressed that the Slavonia project will be one of the priorities of the government in the coming period. And here I must point out once again that this project really deserves priority because I am telling you of the five Slavonian counties three are among those with the highest risk of poverty. So Brod-Posaviska, Vukovar-Srijemska and Virovitica-Podravska. It is a defeating data that clearly outlines the state of Slavonia. However, what I wanted to tell you is that Slavonia is not just a farm colleague dear. Yes, agriculture is one of the important elements of our economy in Slavonia, but it's not the only one. I don't know if you've heard of the project Osijek software city where a whole series of medium and small entrepreneurs, our people, Osijek, but also around Croatia and Slavonia are working on IT projects that are very successful. Their product is 100% exported. They are competitive on the world market, exporting their knowledge, or IT product. When you talk about tax reform, dear colleagues think about you and the future government why not do targeted tax havens for certain branches of industry. Why should Slavonia or Osijek or already what part of Croatia we choose for it would not be part of Croatia in which, for example, the IT tax would be lower. Or why wouldn't Dalmatia be for something else, etc. etc. A guy for something else. But with the goal of not telling the passive or less-developed neighborhoods, it's a great help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1156	The esteemed representative Branko Bačić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1157	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Hajdukovic, I am pleased that you support at least part of this programme of Government relating to the Slavonia project. Because the Slavonia project is not only an incentive and strengthening of the development of agriculture through what I said was a function of unused agricultural land, through the help of family farms, through better use of EU funds, or EU funds, through rural development than I see development and the Slavonia project in other parts and other areas. I didn't even mention irrigation, and I also said the development of river ports and Slavonski Brod and Vukovar I see through the construction of a channel that was stopped I don't know for what reasons. I think a multi-purpose channel would make it very possible to develop Slavonia and it should not be stopped because its three fundamental characteristics are exactly what I think we need further development of Slavonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1158	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Bačić, you mentioned decentralisation. Of course decentralisation is the most important thing. However, it is not enough just to mention decentralisation, that these funds are decentralised by any other fiscal towards the counties. And that county, of course, as it has been so far. An example in my Split-Dalmatia County must be the same political option at local level for the county to give funds and, of course, four schools, four halls and so on. While other municipalities, local self-government and cities absolutely can't reach any funds. So this key is mainly my Split-Dalmatia County could list you with a thousand such things. If there is no new indexation, fair indexation not what was written during the Government of Jadranka Kosor, which was accepted by the SDP 2014 which is absolutely unfair and unfair towards the corners of the Dalmatian Zagora, Like, Gorski Kotar. Absolutely forgotten places left for mercy and mercy, unfair indices. Minister Tolusic has pledged that indices will be resolved. We haven't seen them yet, new indexation. I hope as soon as possible that the new minister will present a fair fair indexation regardless of the political options that exist in municipalities and cities. You can mainly see Sinj and Vrgorac have lost more than all other ends. You have declared Sinj and Vrgorac Sinjska krajina, Cetina and Vrgoračka developed areas. It was the government of Jadranka Kosor, an indexation she made, and the government of Zoran Milanovic accepted. It's unfair and unfair. If the institutions do not fence, if the institutions do not respect the will of the citizens, if the CNB does not primarily behave that the courts must give them judgments to protect the public interest, not the interest... in Frank, then we are enormous, then we better not go to power because we don't always bow down to the great leaders, regardless of our support for the government or support, we need to protect our citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1160	Thank you. The esteemed representative Branko Bačić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1161	Comrade Bulj, first of all, I agree with you that, besides financial and functional decentralisation is necessary both towards regional and local self-government. That's where we absolutely agree. As for the need for a new or new indexation of Croatia, I think Minister Tolusic has already brought it to the final stage. I think it is finished and that we will be witnesses that a new indexation of Croatia has been made which certainly includes what you say about the fact that certain areas that according to the index belonged to a number of categories of doors where they really have a place to be more accessible to them. I didn't mention in my opening statement, I didn't have time for a very important part of this programme, and that's the Regional Development Fund. So, setting up a Regional Development Fund that should help these areas that you've been talking about that don't have enough resources to provide and have the means to prepare documentation, projects and implement them. And that is very important when we talk about even regional development. And as for the distribution of funds together, we're in the same government. I hope that this will be settled at the level of the Government and there is no need for the two of us to argue about it in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1162	The last replica is the esteemed representative of Željko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1163	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Bacic. Here you mentioned in your presentation several words, economic growth, demographic recovery, tax reform, agriculture and tourism. I think those are the words we'll stick to and take care of them run really RH in advance. But if you won't attach importance, the great importance of what I've read now will not be a demographic renewal that is so questionable because our young people have gone to Germany, especially from Slavonia, and will hardly return. Agriculture and tourism, agriculture should be declared a strategic branch of the economy for the Republic of Croatia of strategic importance and, in synergy with tourism, increase its usability and added value. Slavonia is in a very difficult state, here I am often there, these are people who have the greatest heart in the Republic of Croatia and have a very difficult life. It will be very difficult to start agriculture in Slavonia if we have monopolies who determine the purchase price of products that are not in line with the cost of production and even with the stock market already agreed. Tourism has a great advantage in continental tourism, which means too little. I will now tell you once while I was State Secretary of the Ministry of Tourism was in Russia and when a Russian told us the treasure your capital was on the coast of the sea. We felt a little strange, but later we realized that it was really like that and that these ratios and distances in the Republic of Croatia are very, very small. The reduction of VAT on food that we have been talking about in HSS for a very long time, I hope that this will happen one day and that this will all encourage these two main strategic branches, which are agriculture and tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1164	Thank you. The esteemed representative Branko Bačić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1165	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Members of this programme are, as generators of growth and development of the Republic of Croatia, prominent and agriculture and tourism, and I agree with you that without the strength of the economy, without the strength of agriculture, without the additional strength of tourism, it is difficult to meet all these other measures mentioned in this programme. I think when you mention demographics that the programme has quite prominent demographic measures, they are not concrete there they can agree with you, they are principled and talk about institutes that will be introduced into Croatian legislation so that demographic renewal can be encouraged so that they are not missing. But through a budget that will come very quickly, we will see how many of these institutes that go towards the demographic dimension of Croatia are in the state budget. Otherwise, when we talk about demographics yesterday, I heard that very politicians don't like much demographic measures because the mandate has passed and the effects of these demographic measures are still not shown, they can't be seen. So I think we're going to do the opposite right here and we're going to take these measures to encourage the demographic restoration of Croatia. That's what needs to be one of the priorities of this government, which is why she got her special ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1166	Thank you. We will now move on to the next club of representatives, which is that of HNS and HSU in the name of which the distinguished representative Ivan Vrdoljak will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1167	Thank you very much, Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. At first, a clear club of representatives of the HNS and HSU will not support the new government. We will not support the government because at this point it is necessary to make it clear to the whole public who is the government and who is the opposition to know and what are the tasks of each of us in this mandate. As an opposition, we see our position in Parliament and as an expression of citizens' confidence in the policies we represent and see and as an obligation to correct, within our powers, the work of the new government. We take that commitment with pride and pleasure. Before I explain how we will meet our role as opposition in the Croatian Parliament and what our expectations of the new government are I would like to congratulate all the proposed members of the government, the prime minister, ministers, ministers. I sincerely wish you successful work because good results would mean good for Croatian citizens, and that is the goal for all of us sitting here to strive for. We all have a duty to put the interests of Croatian citizens above any other political interest, the duty to ensure that the life of all in Croatia is better and better in every respect. So, on behalf of the HNS and HSU club, we want to say first and foremost what we expect from the new government, and then what we are prepared to offer as an opposition. We expect that the new government in its work will identify the direction already through the first concrete moves and define a clear vision of Croatia's development through new strategic documents and new laws. When I talk about a clear vision of development, I call on the new Government to accept and continue the implementation of those strategic documents brought by previous governments in previous mandates, such as the industrial strategy, the Smart Specialisation Strategy, the Science and Education Strategy, which exceeds the strategy of any individual political option and represents the strategies of the Republic of Croatia. I believe that during our term of office, the end of political practice has come in which, when we change power, we throw everything that the predecessors have done into the basket and start to work over again. Such practice is one of the reasons why Croatia is making slow progress and I hope that these times of burning the country behind the predecessors have indeed remained behind us. Looking at all of us in this House of Parliamentaryism in Croatia, colleagues and colleagues, I have the hope of entering a period of responsible political action and constructive political dialogue. Only through dialogue can we respond politically and socially to all the challenges facing Croatia. I also expect the new government to keep its promises from the election campaign. I place an emphasis on reforms. We do not have time for essential reforms that meet the superficial and empty populist objectives in the short term. We all together today, now and now, must launch key reforms that will show our results in the long-term and greater quality of life of citizens. Since key reforms will not be easy, the new government will have to show both courage and determination in their implementation. From you future minister and minister, and also Prime Minister, who is not here right now, I expect he will not be discouraged by the resistance of those who, at all costs, want to retain the status quo. Finally, I expect this government to choose its policy priorities responsibly, I firmly believe that around the key elements of Croatia's better future, with of course a lot of effort, mutual respect and openness for dialogue we can agree, reach consensus and make big steps for our country. I don't think there are any political options represented in this Higher House that will not put the following, advanced and efficient economy based on new technologies and knowledge, as well as on Croatia's energy independence, as well as the promotion of entrepreneurship, especially small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, the priority of modern and competitive education in line with the needs of people, labour markets and society, education that rests on modernisation and implementation of the full reform of education, decentralisation and uniform regional development, the effective and transparent public administration, which is a quality and reliable service of citizens, on organised and effective judiciary, responsible and comprehensive demographic policy that promotes the return of our citizens and reduces the motivation of citizens to emigrate and ultimately, the priority of Croatia as equal opportunities for all, in which we will in all times and for Europe and for all of us, when we see the destruction of democracy, defend all human rights throughout the world, safeguarding the world, safeguarding non-humanity, security and security of Croatia. When I say that we can reach consensus, I believe that the issue of the relationship between the Republic of Croatia and MOL is, for example, as a shareholder in INA, one of the first concrete issues on which it is possible to demonstrate the good will of all policy options. We couldn't do that in history. With regard to the protection of national interests and the well-being of citizens on this issue, I have said several times, and I will repeat today, the consensus of all political options and parties on the future and the strategic topics or companies, is the biggest possible contribution to its survival and future development of Croatian policy. You have been given the opportunity to make a significant step out of the current patterns of behaviour and functioning that have led citizens to lose confidence in both the political system and the democratic institutions of our country. For too long, Croatian politics has been ruled by a model of trench divisions and political hostilities. A destructive model in which the duty to its voters assumes the fight against political inexperiences to all allowable and even inadmissible means. The first direct result of such a model is the loss of trust in all of us, members of the government, MPs, loss of trust in the job we deal with and the anger of citizens when it comes to politics or elections. Losing faith in politicians leads to a loss of confidence in the political system, a loss of trust in our country's institutions and ultimately a loss of confidence in democracy as a whole. Aware of all this, the HNS will enter a political match in the new assembly of parliaments as a competition, not as an old form as a political enemy. I believe that in the game of political competitors we have our own cards and that as an opposition we represent an additional value in Croatian politics just like many other colleagues and colleagues from the opposition. I believe that in such an atmosphere that promotes and strengthens political dialogue, we can better justify voter confidence, and we will give our contribution in this mandate as a constructive opposition through legislative initiatives and a concrete proposal for Croatia better than it was for yesterday and Croatia better tomorrow. As a constructive opposition, we will open the door to the future of Croatian politics and the more important future of Croatian society. I hope that the general belief will prevail that the return of the atmosphere of political reckonings does not contribute to anyone, and at least to those for whom we are, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Regardless of our good will and willingness, the keys to a different political atmosphere in both the Parliament and the political space are generally held by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, held by the ruling majority, or parliamentary representatives representing the parliamentary majority. For the fundamental reform of political culture in Croatia, not only is it sufficient for a different, decent and more quantifiable communication, although it is of course very, very important, but for a more constructive and quality dialogue, both better and more quality power is needed. Priorities, responsibility for work and focus on results remain key. If the government truly becomes a country of priorities presented here today and works responsibly for the benefit of all citizens, we will be able to develop a new political climate together in Croatia. And that's like I said political competition instead of political enmity, political dialogue. However, if ghosts and topics from the past are brought back to life in Croatian politics, if the world-wide differences are again imposed without a real impact on the quality of life of citizens, we will miss a unique opportunity to reform the political system and restore citizens' trust and to the system as a whole and to all politicians as a whole. At this critical moment for Croatian society we have the opportunity once and perhaps forever to turn to the future and work for Croatia as we wish tomorrow. Instead, I will repeat economic growth, education, decentralisation, uniform development, public administration, justice, demographic policy, democratic standards and human rights are topics that directly affect the lives of Croatian citizens and citizens. From this podium, from this position today we invite you to take advantage of every opportunity from now on to create Croatia as it can and must be proud of all of us and to the satisfaction of all citizens and citizens of Croatia. And I firmly believe that after 25 years of democracy in Croatia that it is time for new communication, a new policy, we can call it 2-0 in Croatia. Once again, I wish you many successes, in us you will have a serious, constructive, decent opposition that has its purpose in the political system, and you will get it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1168	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He's the first to be respected representative of Nikola Gromoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1169	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's a distinguished colleague, Vrdoljak, said that they've all been acting in the tactics of the burned country so far, and that all the personnel who were in the ministries were when they came in, then they'd sweep them up and bring in all the new ones. Here I'm going to say that MOST made a big mistake to this government that he didn't decide on that tactics because of the fact that the public companies left the country burned down because of the HNS personnel. Yesterday, in an exhibition that was about amendments to the Law on HRT, I said that because we insist that various law firms and public notebooks, first of all Mr. Hanžekovic will remain without much money and that this money will remain in the pockets of Croatian citizens and we will be exposed to impact. I was disappointed today that only four pages of negative texts were dedicated in the morning list of Most, but I was not disappointed with the level of manipulation in the titles. So we have the title that Panenic's director, Cicovic, lost millions. Director Ćovic is not Panenic's director, it is the director of the HNS quota who ordered 9 million kuna from the Croatian Football Federation. And this text beautifully conveys a transcript of the talks in which Mr. Ćovic says he has received the consent of Minister Vrdoljak. But in the title we have that he is Panenic's man. Here's me. I'm just sorry that MOST didn't decide on that burning country tactics and that it wasn't those incompetent HNS personnel who were ruining public enterprises, which didn't remove them and bring new personnel together in agreement with HDZ, we didn't reach an agreement, and that's our big mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1170	Thank you. The honourable representative Ivan Vrdoljak will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1171	And that's exactly what I was saying about this pay phone. If we are to go back in history for 25 years, list the indexation of Jadranka Kosor, list who is the godfather and let's say that this concrete colleague is the godfather of Minister Panenic's assistant, there will be no good people. We have a chance to restore decency, content applied to politics. You have a chance that provides the hand of the opposition which was generally not a practice in the Croatian Parliament. In the Croatian Parliament, the position was always given by the opposition to cooperate and the opposition said no, no, you are not worthy of it. I today when you will appoint the Government as one, as the second largest club opposition in the Croatian Parliament, I say you have partners in us with the position of the opposition that we can help you communicate, in courtesy, in restoring dignity to Croatian politicians, parties, institutions that you must never defuse because that is how you devalue every Croatian citizen. Answering now to your replica is the content of my presentation here where I did not want to speak individually about any minister or his history or representative or any history but about the future of Croatia. And therefore, I ask you, primarily dear ministers, candidates, ministers, future prime minister, concentrate on the result of your work so that our Croatian and Croatian citizens are better off and that such squadrons of universal politicians in the Croatian Parliament are negligible and without influence on the lives of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1172	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1173	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Vrdoljak, said it is a very important national interest in solving arbitration and INA MOL problems. Of course, the national interest because it has serious financial consequences. When it comes to management rights as part of this process, then it is certain that management of INA by MOL is presented as a majority owner and it is not really very dangerous for Croatia all these years. And the damage caused by this for the Croatian economy is certainly measured by billions of kunas. But what is even more important at the moment is the direct cost of the arbitration procedure related to the gas business that weighs more than 3 billion kuna. So there are serious fiscal risks here. I would like to add this to another important national topic which has also been current these days, which is the Swiss franc, the Consumer Credit Act and the French-to-euro conversion. So this project has been voted 100% by the majority here, so unanimously that fact gives the new government the legitimacy and the new government to insist on what we have been insisting on, and this is again the protection of national interest and not giving in to financial institutions or banks in this case, because this can also cause a new cost to the state of several billion kunas which we cannot afford. The third national interest, the third strategic interest, and I wish there were more figures in this programme about it, is the resolution of the health system. Also over three billion kunas, it seems to me somewhere around 3.5 at this point in accumulated debt. So only these three national topics of exceptional importance are more than 10 billion kunas. And about the promises a little later and you will see that all of this costs a lot, and the new Croatian government will have to take care of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1174	Thank you. The honourable representative Ivan Vrdoljak will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1175	Dear Representative, here I will remind and also the composition of the new government and the Croatian public when MOL went into illegal payment of its claims in the gas business and when we had to respond with arbitration, with its launched arbitration protecting several billion kunas that are harmful to the Republic of Croatia. I, as Minister of Economy, was also looking for such consensus in the opposition. Okay, we didn't get it for some of the reasons that they were doing that moment. And then I'm the same and even in some daily new ones, this or that was more about how much our lawyers cost than what an incentive the damage to Croatia is. If we from the opposition want to be different from what some in the opposition used to be, then today I give my hand and I tell people everything I know, all the experiences I have, everything I know in this process I make available in the Republic and that means the rulings that we try to get out of that situation like the Republic of Croatia and not as a victory or defeat of any political option is essentially going to lose our country. And that's what I'm offering here in front of all of you and the Croatian public. The ruling will choose whether or not they need to, but ultimately the same about the other two topics. If we have such a consensus that communication can be reached safely by any arbitration court or any interested community such as in the case of Frank, it is much more difficult to communicate financially with the representatives of the Government if they have support and opposition with their views, with their clarity of political message. And I think that when we started the INA fight, it would have been a lot easier if we had a partner in the opposition, but no matter what history is, let's keep it and respect it. We have a future before us where the opposition wants to be different, more constructive. It's your responsibility whether you use it or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1176	Thank you. The next club of representatives is that of the Living Wall, the Alphabet of Democracy in the name of which the distinguished representative Ivan Pernar will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1177	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, the citizens of our country are more interested in living better in the next four years than who will be the new prime minister or ministers. However, the question arises what is needed for the better life of citizens? Is that a face replacement or is that a policy change? From what we've had a chance to see from the government's program, it's all a sign that it's essentially going back to the way it was. We have had opportunities to see in the past 25 years that Croatia instead of sovereign politics has run a service policy. We had opportunities to see where those who spoke of patriotism actually seduced the country into black and led to the escape of the Croatian people not only from the neighbouring, for us neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina but also from our own country of Croatia. Our people move out every day and buses full of young people come out of the country. So the question is, who's going to stay here? Will it be just us sitting here in the Parliament and employees of the Parliament and the people they call MOST colleagues? And what about other people who don't have jobs, who don't have a secure salary, whose accounts are blocked, whose electricity is being excavated, or the water? Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Dukic family, what is their future in this country? The Dukic family is today while Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, who is now sitting behind my back on the right, while he was in the Assembly today preparing for an opening speech at the same time the intervention police pulled members of his family from their only home at the address of Holy Spirit 8 at Zagreb's Crnomer. The Dukic family watched Mr Plenkovic talk on TV in an election campaign about how the only real estate would be protected from execution and that the families would be protected. He wasn't there today, nor did he do anything to stop her. It is a sad fact that today, means the day when the government decided to carry out this monstrosity action on the orders of a credit institution party or a savings-credit cooperative Raiffeisen banka from Austria. It is important to mention the fundamental problem that our country has and it is not unfortunately humane, it is a problem of monetary policy of the Croatian National Bank which is currently national, meaning because it is not in the service of the people but in the service of foreign banks, nor is it Croatian or Croatian only on paper and in reality it is subordinated not to the Croatian Parliament but to foreign interests and foreign directives, especially to those directives that come from Brussels. And in the end, it's not even a bank because it only plays a part in foreign exchanges in domestic and vice versa. The essential problem of the financial system that we have is this: all the money we own in our wallets or we have in our accounts is created only as a loan. And that loan was sort of distributed and finally came to us, but all the credit we borrowed and as a state, and as a society, we'll have to pay back eventually increased by the amount of interest. And that's actually where the whole problem arises. There's no money to pay off interest. In other words, when loans are borrowed, only the principals of the loan are borrowed, and the money for the payment of interest has never entered into circulation. In other words, if the Croatian government borrows a billion dollars from the outside and has to pay back a billion and a half of those half billion. This government, unfortunately, as far as I'm concerned, continues with the so-called implementation of the so-called so-called government. credit and deposit multiplications, which means that banks will continue to have no money, that is, invented money that exists only on computer screens to issue credits, borrow and create money, or inflation even though there is no such money. It is a public secret that in Croatia only 20% of deposits are covered or perhaps 30 real money. 70% of the money that citizens under quotes have in their accounts doesn't exist. If they went to their banks tomorrow to raise their money, they could just come across a long line of people in front of them and realize that there's no money. Instead of our state implementing monetary reform, it means that the CNB regains power over the creation of money and that the state is directly funded by the Central Bank, and that banks are banned from creating money from the air, i.e. multiplication of loans and deposits, the same policy that led us to the collapse will continue to be implemented. And the consequences will be inevitable. The first and main consequence of the inability to repay the loan is the loss of its own property. What the Dukic family was going through this morning is going to tell some of what this has to do with me. Well, there is, because our country is essentially in the same situation as this family. Neither our Republic of Croatia has the money to cover its own expenditures at present, let alone to repay previously taken loans. The real deficit is hiding. Some talk about the budget's revenue being 110 billion kuna, and the expenditure is 120, which is only 10 billion kuna shortfall. But by next year, 27 billion kunas of credit are also coming in, which actually increases the deficit from 10 to 37 billion kuna. Foreign banks will have no mercy on our country and our people and, therefore, during the last assembly of the government, Governor Oreshkovic's first conversation that he had gone to work in China with bankers and after that, he said they were very pleased. What does being very satisfied mean for them? That means ladies and gentlemen, he's about to start a phone sale for our country. And of course the bankers approved his plan. Unfortunately, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, who sits behind me on the right, although he is likely opposed to the sale of our homeland, will be forced and valued by these bankers to sell it as did his predecessor Oreshkovic, which means that he will not have the role of leader and statesman, but only the bankruptcy manager. The role remains the same, and the names change. As Larry Hannigan, an Australian, in 1971, explained in his book, I want a country plus five percent. Dear ladies and gentlemen, except for the monetary policy that has led, as I say, to the indemnity of the loan and the permanent kuna depriving in the country, the second wrong policy this new government intends to implement is to serve Washington and Brussels. The new Finance Minister Martina Dalic is not really new. She is an old new minister who, meanwhile, worked for the IMF and was preparing there in Washington for the implementation of all the measures that will be imposed on us by probably one of the first real estate taxes that will aim at finally delegating our people from property. Ladies and gentlemen, after they hit on the citizens of our country and after they hit our own country and sell it off and privatize everything that's left, then we'll be on our own. So also Mr. Pedja Grbin and Mr. Glavasevic and Mr. Marin Škibola and my recent colleague Hrvoje Runtic and my colleagues on the right in HDZ are all in line to say that the plan is bankers, i.e. the conspiracy is of global proportions, is being pictured locally, but is directed against all of us. The only one who will survive in such a order is an elite made up of only one percent of the people. That one percent controls everything. They're holding the media, blackmailing the government. And why is that? Because the government can't make money on its own. So the state doesn't have monetary sovereignty. And because of such circumstances and such frameworks, business is forced, or dependent on private banks for money. And as long as it's the kind of independence we can talk about, what sovereignty we can talk about, dear ladies and gentlemen. You also saw that Washington, or NATO, was implementing a catastrophic geopolitical policy. He introduced the following interventions. First, Iraq broke up, and in Iraq, and today, people are dying, and today they're taking their heads off, and the columns of refugees are coming to our country. I hope so, i.e. I would like Croatia to send food and humanitarian aid instead of military weapons to Afghanistan. I wish the Croatian Army would pull its troops out of Afghanistan and stop the occupation of the country. I'd like the money going on a military mission in Afghanistan to be directed towards poor citizens waiting in line in front of the soup kitchens and digging through containers looking for bottles to sell them for 50 limes. There are more and more citizens living like that. And I think this government is totally social and insensitive. How can we talk about the Russian threat when thousands of our citizens are not terrified of the Russians, but of people like Hanžekovic and those who allowed him to be in that position. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the threat to Croatian statehood is not the Russians, Serbs or whoever, but ourselves. The biggest threat to Croatian statehood is that we are parliamentary representatives who support the service policy that leads to the destruction of our country. For that reason, I appeal to your own conscience. So, not only the opposition, but also the HDZ counterpart not to support this power. That when the vote is to show that they have their position, to show that they are not just dolls at the end who will vote in the party path and to tell Mr Plenkovic, Mr Plenkovic if you are not going to do any reform, if you will continue with what HDZ has been doing so far, we will lose the next election, the citizens can't come up with us anyway, let's do something else for them. However, according to the old recipe, I assume that the HDZ colleagues will obediently all raise their hands for the same policy they have supported all this time. I would also like to look back in my speech at Mr Plenkovic's brief replica of me. He told me Mr. Pernar the mirage had to be carried out because the rule of law has to work. Mr Plenkovic, that the rule of law is functioning by an illegal credit cooperative from Austria who has never been granted a permit from the CNB would never be in a position to delegate the Dukic family. And that's the essential thing. We did not interfere because we wanted to break the law but only because it is in itself immoral. And that's what this all comes down to. I also have one more thing to note, except that Mr. Plenkovic said in his pre-election time that he would protect the only real estate from the performance and, finally, as we can see, HDZ and MOST gave up on it. There is also a problem of secret actions that will grow in the future. This serious problem is due to the fact that the Executive Act does not say that the executioner must be informed in advance, which means that enforcement can be carried out at any time of the day and night. I appeal to the HDZ government and the MOST government to amend the executive law in a way that this horror that has been happening only to members of the Serb national minority at the time of the war not to expose that horror and our own people. I believe that the actions without the announcement of horror are in themselves and that this is one civilizational reverse moment and that no one should be exposed to it regardless of the Jews of the NDH era, the Serbs of the Homeland War or our own citizens today. Often, the famous thought of a German philosopher was mentioned, saying: “First they came for the Jews, and I did not rebel, so they came for the homosexuals, and I did not rebel because I was not homosexual, but for the witnesses of Jehovah, and I was not a witness of Jehovah. ” Dear ladies and gentlemen, this criminal policy conducted by foreign banks in cooperation with domestic puppets is now coming to us. And if we don't stand up to that right now, it's just a moment that the next family will find themselves in an uninvited situation. I must also mention once again the hand that gives is always above the hand that receives. As long as the government of Prime Minister Plenkovic depends on foreign banks for money, the bank's hand will always be above his. Which means that this government, as well as the previous governments, is a puppet, or controlled from the outside. It was recently warned by Vladimir Seks on the very election night when he said that informal groups of people actually rule our country and that we who stand or sit in this House are only participants in a play that we do not make decisions but are only implementing them. It is my sincere wish that Croatian politics will change one day and that we will live in a free country. I appeal to my colleagues of HDZ to take good note of my words and take them to heart so that one day we may be a free and sovereign state. I thank you all and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1178	I thank the honourable representative Pernar. We have three replicas. The first one was answered by a colleague Dražan Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1179	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Pernar, I took note of your appeal and what am I trying to say? The picture of Croatia is not so black and the future is not so black. We will give confidence to these people here who are not yet government, and Andrej Plenkovic is still not the Prime Minister but will only become that when we declare his trust here. And we will give it because this programme that is presented here offers exactly solutions for better Croatia. The programme is now offering to solve the problem of implementation because the problem of implementation will be difficult to resolve only by amending the Implementing Law. The problem of the execution is much deeper. It actually stems from a difficult economic situation and you can see that this programme has fundamental goals and demands for the economy to rise to a higher level, that people be employed, that they have salaries, and then we won't even have to do it. The executive law that today is in the procedure it protects the only real estate, it has very human provisions and clauses and I suggest you have a program to join and to constructively participate in the second reading, to make your proposals because only in this way as a partner said and a colleague of Vrdoljak can we come up with a better quality solution. I am deeply convinced that we will find some common solutions that will be much better than today. But the key is actually an economy, jobs, wages, and I believe that this government with a program this balanced can certainly do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1180	Replication response, dear colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1181	Thank you, Chairman. I must point out that my colleague, Ivan Vilibor Sincic, had already, in the last session of this House, referred to the parliamentary procedure of the amendment to the executive law, ours, which would stop both secret actions and executions over the only real estate. But then the parliamentary majority, led by academic Rainer, did not even want to put it on the agenda, let alone vote. It is my sincere hope and desire that you will accept our amendment, which we will refer to on the subject of the Executive Law this time, although we sincerely doubt. Not because we don't think you'd want to, but because foreign banks won't let you. And as I mentioned earlier, it is the parties to the banks that make key decisions in our country. The key decisions are made by Washington and Brussels, they decide what will be privatised and at what rate, how many people will be fired, whether a real estate tax will be introduced, etc. My sincere wish is for Mr Plenkovic to have the courage and to be a strong man, not to be just an obedient and an agent installed by the West, but to behave as well as to someone who is given the task of leading our people. It's my sincere wish, and if he'll ever do it I'll be the first to give him support. Until then, as long as I don't make sure this government doesn't have my support or the trust of my colleagues. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1182	Another replica, distinguished counterpart Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1183	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Pernar, you've said a lot in your presentation on behalf of the club, but I must say that in this government's program is what you actually market, which is the protection of one property and it will be safe and implemented. But your activity in the past as well as Mr. Sincic is an activity that conflicts with the law, and it is entered in the Penal Code, when preventing official persons from performing official duties, then it is a punishable act from six months to three years or from one year to eight years in prison, especially when an official person is attacked in the official duties or endangers her life. That's why you should have been in jail a long time ago. You were prevented from being punished when you attacked a police officer with a traffic sign here at the entrance of the Parliament and hit him in the head for at least five years, if you hadn't forgotten. I will now, as an agent, now appoint the next Minister of the Interior, as well as the Minister of Justice, which is with that case, and why you were not prosecuted when you attacked the life of a police officer who defended an institution, which was the Parliament. You're talking about protecting those people who are in a position to be completed today, you're giving them extra costs when the police have to engage because of your pleas. All these accounts come to those unhappy people and they add problems to them, you don't think about it. You'd better get rid of it now that you've got the council's salary and pay them the costs you've caused with your engagement and coercion. And not to talk about what you do when you're preventing official personnel from performing their official duties. This is an institution where you can go along with all those who want a good team of unhappy people who could not pay or have been deceived through legal frameworks to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1184	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1185	Thank you. First of all, I want to point out that I've never hit, attacked or strangled any police officer in my life, and the charges themselves are false. As for the interference of an official in preventing duties, I believe that I had no other choice and way to point to the problem of money as a debt or not to repay credit exclusively in the credit system with the Central Bank as a currency exchange. We are not even preventing actions because we are at odds with the police, but because we want to point out that our country is in a deeply dependent position in a state of independence, devoid of any sovereignty. Mr Djakic, if, in order to defend our country's sovereignty or to point out that that sovereignty had to go to prison, I would gladly go to prison and that would be my greatest honor and joy. But when your colleagues go to jail they leave for other reasons and you know who they are. As you know, however, you control all the institutions of the government, you control the Constitutional Court, and you unpunish our country for 20 years. It's easier to say you didn't rob it than you did, Mr. Darling. It's easier to say who you didn't ruin than who you did. There is no company almost and there is no worker who has not felt the grace of your hand and your long fingers in your pocket, and you can see it by the number of people begging around the city, Mr. dear, who you don't care about, you can see it by the number of people digging through garbage containers, you don't care either, and you don't care that people are waiting regularly in front of the soup kitchen. Mr. Dear me when I was a child when there was a war when we were all poor then in front of the Church of St. There was no order for the soup kitchen. Today I see that after 25 years we are not all poor, that some have become rich, that in their lives they are doing well, and that the vast majority of this people, Mr. dear, are not well and that because of you and the like of you, they must leave our country with bread. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1186	The third replica comes from a respected colleague, Ivan Vilibor Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1187	Thank you, Vice President. Here's my colleague Pernar, I'm going to look back at one more thing you didn't mention, which is these RBA cooperatives, or how they are listed in this opinion by the Austrian bank Raiffeisen groups. I have this opinion in my hand since 12 May 2016, this year, addressed to the President of the Croatian Parliament, it was then Mr Reiner, saying, among other things, that it would prevent the illegal action of foreign legal persons on the territory of the Republic of Croatia and that it would prevent the implementation of the activity on real estate and operations, or that it would be impossible to suspend the conduct of the conduct and operation by the Austrian banks of Raiffeisen Group over the property of citizens, the user of the disputed loans until the completion of investigations and judicial proceedings initiated on the basis of private claims of citizens and the determination of the legality of financial intermediation, business and credit relations, and in order to protect Croatian citizens and determine the criminal responsibility of participants in these legal matters, and here are some laws, among others, of consumer credit that I told the party on behalf of the club yesterday. Finally, the signing of Mr. Prime Minister, still current, is another hour for Tihomir Oreskovic. Therefore, I am also asking the current minister and future minister of the Spruce why he is not in this opinion, perhaps this family today would remain in their home. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1188	The answer to my colleague Pernar's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1189	I thank my colleague Sincic for once again pointing out that the actual performances carried out by the illegal RBA cooperatives should have been suspended. However, we see that the law is one thing and that practice is another and that the law is in fact breaking and the basic password for breaking the law is that there must be a rule of law. So when we pointed out the illegality of the procedure itself, that the Consumer Credit Act should have been suspended, when we came to prevent the bodies there, Mr Plenkovic said the rule of law had to work. If this is a legal state and these are the methods the government intends to establish law and justice, then the future of our citizens is indeed black. And it is my sincere hope that the rule of law will finally function, namely that things like today's shameful action and the arrest of our colleagues will no longer be repeated in the future. I would also like to say that it would be a shame to have Mr. Sincic in power and that Mr. Plenkovic is wearing and relations. It would be a shame because Mr. Plenkovic is a parliamentary representative, i.e. he has protection. So I appeal once again to the police to finally protect the representatives and their rights because we are not here on our own behalf, not on behalf of ourselves, but on behalf of the citizens. And the citizens didn't give us immunity because, I don't know, they were bored in life but precisely to protect us from the proceedings, possibly, repressive by the authorities, against us as representatives of the opposition. And I urge that all politically-mounted procedures that this government is conducting against all members of the opposition be terminated at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1190	Thank you very much. We'll continue the debate. Now it's the National Minority Representatives' Club. We've got two MPs, the first one's a colleague of Bilek's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1191	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored Prime Minister of the Croatian Government, respected candidates for the Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, respected colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to express my satisfaction with this opportunity that during the talks that we representatives of national minorities conducted with the mandate of Mr. Andrej Plenkovic and his associates to prepare this programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I think we did a quality job and I think the way that part of it was just done was in a positive sense. Talks that have been conducted in the spirit of mutual respect and respect for the current situation have resulted in what is already known by the signatures of the support of all now members of the National Minority Club, means all 8 representatives of the National Minorities. We paid particular attention in the talks to the protection of the rights of national minorities as well as regional and rural development and the use of EU funds. The Government of the Republic of Croatia's programme on the basis of which we will support and its choice has covered in a political way all the topics through which I believe will remain to be achieved and improved in certain areas and the position of national minorities. In accordance with this and the programme, we expect that in the first 60 days of the government, we will jointly develop operational programmes for individual national minorities, which we have already started talks to bring priorities into line. The implementation of these programmes will be followed by agreed consultations with the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. We also expect in the first year of the term of office that the Government will propose amendments and additions to the Law on Regional Development and Regional Development Strategy and thus improve the development programmes in areas where the historical people of national minorities live, but this also concerns all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, especially Slavonia, Baranja, Banije, Korduna, Like etc.. A particular emphasis today would be placed on the development of agriculture primarily with the aim of increasing the self-sufficiency of the agricultural sector, primarily through a better support programme. The protection of domestic products markets, the reconstruction of the livestock fund with the aim of increasing meat production, as well as the restoration of the dairy sector which, unfortunately, is now almost destroyed but also the development of all other branches of agriculture, warfare, fruit growing, freshwater and marine fisheries, beekeeping and, unfortunately, through rural development measures with which we are unfortunately unable to boast. This is not only in direct agricultural production but also in the use of rural development measures in non-agricultural activities and in the service of the development of infrastructure of local self-government units such as kindergartens or homes in Šibovac, Doljani, Josipovac, Jelisavac, Ilock, and in all other settlements. I just have to say, unfortunately, the rural development program has been active for some time now. Most of this turned out to be complaints, lawsuits, unpaid funds, but most of the measures are still pending. Measures such as 7.4, measures that need to be used by local self-government units in particular rural areas, which should contribute to keeping our citizens alive in these rural areas rather than moving out of the Republic of Croatia. We also expect a continuation of the consistent application of the Constitutional Court decision by which no lower limit will be set for the number of students required to form class departments for members of national minorities. We also expect, of course, the establishment of a special unit at the ministry responsible for education in which the education of members of national minorities will be the subject of education. There is also the provision of assumptions for the recognition of minority languages that have not yet been recognised in the Republic of Croatia, the improvement of the work of associations and institutions of national minorities but also the addition of schools, for example in Daruvar or in Ivan's village. We also want to step up international co-operation, sign or sign new agreements in particular in the economy, but also in a culture where there is frequent changes in ministers for some time we have not had a valid agreement on cooperation in culture between Croatia and the Czech Republic, for example. but also prepare new bilateral agreements on the protection of minorities in both the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian minority outside the Republic of Croatia. I would like to emphasise the importance of the intention of setting up a Regional Development Fund that will bring us closer to the EU funds as well as structural and development support for innovators in rural areas and the implementation of innovation for rural economy development. It is known that in the Republic of Croatia unfortunately not only in Istria as a colleague said there are people who know how to write projects. We also have people in Slavonia who know how to write projects. Unfortunately, our units of local self-government do not have the fiscal potential to support most of these projects. And that's why this fund and this kind of co-financing will happen when it starts and I hope it will be as soon as possible to achieve a one-way regional development. Because without it, we can write projects whatever we want. If, for example, in Daruvar, we write a quality project for a new wastewater purifier that is likely to and should be moved now outside the settlement of one where it was planned, but we can't implement it because we don't have the fiscal capacity of local self-government, and what are we going to come up with? We will come to the conclusion that after all this and trying to do so, our country will have to punish us through the provisions because we do not have high-quality purifiers and high-quality clean waste water. We representatives of national minorities support this composition of the government proposed by the prime minister. At no time have we questioned the people who will be appointed as candidates for ministers and on this side we will support them. But we will also follow her work on issues of the interest of national minorities and thus evaluate them, if it is necessary to commend but if it is necessary to try.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1192	I thank my colleague, Bilek. After that, he is on behalf of National Minority Representatives Club colleague Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1193	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We're going to be a listening government, in a translation that has a hearing for the needs of citizens. Mr Plenkovic said by showing openness to all segments of society. Of course, priority points and we understand that, and so we think these governments must have, for which this government must have hearing from the world of economy, finance, fiscal policy and support investment, export policy, agriculture, etc. But we are pleased that Prime Minister Plenkovic is dedicated to one part of his human rights and the rights of national minorities. Which is in line with earlier representation of attitudes of inclusiveness, value inclusiveness, community. Also, as Mr Plenkovic said today and through the critical thinking of the past, with a view of adding me and I am sure I will encounter understanding, a commonity with a view to the future. We share that attitude to be a reflection of history with a view to the future. And the future in Europe is still anti-fascist and translation to avoid confusion, the Croatian translation is anti-USA. One sentence of the past, national minorities are the rest of the dramatic, dramatic and traumatic history of the 20th century in these parts. Minorities survived part of the multiculturality of these areas, the part that remained at home, which did not choose through migration, eviction or exodus, better said which was not afraid of the historical crueltys that took place under different dictatorships in these areas. I am proud that my family stayed in their home in Pula in Austria, Italy, Yugoslavia and Croatia. Such a decision has been made by families that today make up my, my entire national community, better said the rest of those families because all our families are actually frantic with an exodus from Istria, Rijeka and part of Dalmatia. And now a few words about the future. Paul Verlaine is attributed to a saying that reads, "And the future is not who it once was." And we are aware of that, and that is why we have agreed with the Government, with a future government that is today going to happen a common document on the rights of national minorities that is precise enough to satisfy us and general enough to satisfy the government. The rest of the trust remains, and we trust Mr Plenkovic that your frequent repetition of the word "trust and inclusion" is a reflection of solid values and firm attitude. Of course, the world, I have already mentioned this to you in a recent conversation, will continue to revolve around us so that our trust will be checked periodically by our mutual conversations. Finally something about the government's trust. We will give this government a chance, and we who have been in opposition in the last term, but it includes one factor that has clearly been neglected so far. We've actually led our negotiations with the mandater and HDZ. There were no real talks with the MOST as well as in the last term of the real talks if initial introduction was excluded at the very beginning of the last term. That's what we consider a failure. I've mentioned it many times in the media and on television. We don't understand the distance MOST points to the problem of national minorities. I'm talking about distance. A national party such as MOST must have an opinion on this, an attitude that is not exhausted by replicas from the constituencies but must already have a systematic policy. We expect such a systematic policy. And the very end of Istria and its speciality. We don't claim the Istrians that Istria is special. That's what everyone who crosses Ucka says. It is a special de facto because everything that is difficult elsewhere in Istria is achieved especially in the area of minority rights that have been implemented in Istria, not by waiting for national laws, but by voting in contemporary urban and county statutes. This personally obliges me and be assured that I will advocate that this particularity, apart from de facto, will be voted and de jured in the laws on decentralisation of fiscal and political which I hope before or after this vote, this House will vote. It's not pasaluk as said from these benches, it's a modern concept of state. Mr. Plenkovic, you personally and the government you run will get our trust. The rest is the future, the future we hope for won't be the way it used to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1194	Thank you very much. Is that a replica? Come on, well, come on, we'll be wide open. Here you go, buddy Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1195	My colleague Furio, when you mentioned the word trust, was one of the reasons why I wanted to say it, i.e. That of all the governments so far, this is the only government that mentions in its programme the National Strategy for Roma, which I personally think will come to the very implementation and will bear in mind that it shows the position, the difficult position of the Roma. Because here in the Parliament on several occasions, both fellow Pupovac and colleagues Bulj mentioned a difficult position in certain counties in our country. And I can only say that in certain Roma settlements there is safe condition for the 18th century. And I deeply believe that we will realize that. Because given that the past government in its programme was not a word of the national minority, let alone the National Strategy for the Roma. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1196	Thank you very much. We're moving on with the debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Labour and Solidarity Party, Reformists and Independent Representatives, Honorable Representative Željko Lacković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1197	I thank the Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, the future Prime Minister. I'm sure you'll hear a lot of good wishes from this pay phone today to run our country. And what I'd like to tell you is that if you listen to me, it'll be the most difficult situation for you to be just in this government. Which is why I am giving you the call of righteousness in acting as Prime Minister is next. In your opening speech, you pointed out the great importance of the even development of the Republic of Croatia, you stressed the importance of rural development, you also cited some of the measures you consider necessary to introduce such as new indexation, degree of development, or underdevelopment, special plans that will be directed towards war-affected areas and our island area. But we need to know another fact that any equality, or justice in development, is not created by the formation of this government. It has been formed and formed for 25 years and today it has its results. I will draw close to these results and read to you an official document showing data on total savings and loans, i.e. the state of responsibility of citizens in our counties and the exposure to poverty. So, who in Croatia is in debt, who can live well and save a ladder from down to up you go next. Sisakko-moslavačka, Vukovar-Srijemska, Krapina-Zagorska, Virovitičko-podravska, Osijek-Baranja, Koprivnica-križevačka, Varazdinska, Brodsko-Posaviska, Zagrebačka, Požeško-slavonska, Bjelovarsko-bilogorska, Karlovačka, Međimurska. These are locomotives that once dragged not Croatia but Yugoslavia by their industrial production, by the economy and agriculture that took place there and have not yet reached the average. And when we reach the average of the Republic of Croatia, which is approximately the same as the City of Zagreb, the following counties go to significantly more savings than citizens are in debt, and they are in turn towards the top: Zadarska, Istria, Dubrovnik-neretvanska, Primorje-goranska, Sibenik-Kninska, Split-Dalmatia na top. So if you want, and I believe you want, to be fair in the conduct of your honorable duty, then we can't just index or otherwise in the distribution of funds be fair in a balanced development but we need to understand that the grand project of the Pelješka bridge that I support but that will take all the money that the EU has allocated to Croatia by 2020, which is national pride and will bring together the Republic of Croatia will leave absolutely nothing for building roads in the continental part. You, when you announce hundreds and thousands of jobs, I see them right now where they can arise and where the greatest danger of emigration is. It's your continental part of the country. We can't get, for example, in my county a sub-level ipislon, a road that would connect Zagreb with Bjelovar and Koprivnica. And why is that? Maybe we're a little weaker working there? Is it possible that the structure of entrepreneurship has changed over the past 25 years? No, it's not, but budget funds were directed at building infrastructure in our Adriatic Croatia. We support this, but in order to be even in the development now it is necessary to reverse the trend, not to equate but to make this new sub-level highway of the Ilock-Ptuj road, so the road that connects Varazdin and Osijek without which there is no life in the continental part of Croatia, the new future zone where there should be greenfield investments to hire and retain people because we are aware that most of these areas of people are leaving. Among other things, which is why this call for righteousness is being addressed to you today by the fact that the state has not been decentralised either financially or administratively. Which means that where they're going to invest will depend exactly on the people that you're going to promote today to the ministers and who are going to make tomorrow's decisions. I run a small town, and I know how hard it is to get to the minister in the ministry and get out for my project. We are clearly aware that everyone is building and building up their region, helping their territory. But then what is further reason to be just is that Krapina, Varazdinska, Međimurska, Koprivnica, Bjelovarska, Osijek, Požeška, Lička, Istria, Sisak-Moslavina do not have any ministers. Who's going to drag this neighborhood if we're going to work the way it's been done so far that every minister pulls for his environment? This is where your righteousness is needed. On the other hand, most of all in the part where the control of the operational bodies will be carried out to decide on whom EU funds will be allocated. Be assured that there is no competition that has been published without being indirect or I do not know what benefits to those who have received the funds, regardless of what is European money and what may be the possible means of guessing. Competitions open overnight, registration time is 7 days, someone reports, someone doesn't report. Someone's ready, someone's not. It's a provision for the functioning and justice in the conduct of your authority. And punish people like that in order to decide in the operational bodies to which EU funds go. And why do I think I have the right to say this? Because I speak in front of a club of MPs who didn't condition anything or participate in any way for your support in the executive government. And for another reason, Podravina has vast wealth of mine that has been exploited for 50 years. 2 billion cc's of gas, 5 billion kuna and more per year is produced by us. One little oil field... The size of the football field works for 50 years and produced at an average price if we take a $50 barrel of $500 million. [[You don't understand.]] This road is 4 lanes from Zagreb to Koprivnica. We can't get to the normal roads and roads to Koprivnica. We are not against the construction of the Peljega Bridge, but you will see where the funds will be found if they are not monetized, sell what we have, but you must be in charge because neither road construction nor enhanced tourism can draw the Republic of Croatia out of the present state, but production and production in the north because there you will only stop all these emigrations of young people leaving because they are just leaving that period. There are other illogicalities, we would not believe our Court of Justice in Djurđevec since 1875 has been doing orderly business, 140 years, and then someone is conducting a rationalization of the judiciary in the municipality that receives 5 billion kunas of the value of the mines and that court is abolished because there is no funds. We would be Dubai in every other country. Perhaps you can see that the north of the continent is just a problem of Slavonia. There are problems and Podravinas but there are also problems in not understanding those entrepreneurs who create values, which export and which make Croatia grow today and for which tomorrow will be rich. Because it's not normal and it doesn't exist in the northern hemisphere that the south is richer than the north. I am not against the South, I am not against representatives who come and the current minister on the south side but you will be the only corrective when operating bodies will be implemented to whom and how they will be assigned, whether the path to the north will be less or more valued when you write and special programs whether it will be an island and an island that we will become traffic isolation on this part of the continent equally valued. So, I wish you every good and good fortune in your work and I think you have a good team and I think it will be hard to be just, but only by justice will you create such a foundation that Croatian citizens really believe in the better tomorrow because being a successful government does not mean being a fair government. You can see that it is not the same to live in Istria, Dalmatia, Dubrovnik or on our continental part where we fight most and I will stand for because I say, in front of the club we didn't ask for anything and we all come from just that part of Croatia. May you be happy and have this call of righteousness when you will have to resolve someone, when you will face those facts that local self-government leaders face every day to be dealt with unfairly and unfairly by the notified objects of the operating bodies. Thank you and cheers.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1198	I thank my colleague Lackovic. We have one replica, and it's Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1199	Thank you very much. I would like to agree with you on decentralisation that the full power and money in Zagreb and a few other environments, and simply in this way the majority of the Republic of Croatia is evicted, the leaders of local self-government can hardly reach the funds and, of course, the question of the development index which should be fair in decentralisation on this issue would agree. So when we see only in the pre-election campaign as it was in the campaign itself, for example, the city of Zagreb has free textbooks while the poor parts of Dalmatia Zagora, like, the Gorski Kotar probably don't have free textbooks either. And even in the campaign city of Zagreb where their mayor donated as a candidate and textbooks throughout the city, which is a concentration of power while literally in some parts children do not have free textbooks, parents do not work, have no organised transportation and that is a big problem. With this I agree with you completely that you should be fairer to all ends. As far as the Peles Bridge is concerned, I don't think I'd agree. The Pelje Bridge is of national interest and national security of the Republic of Croatia to connect the south of the Republic of Croatia to the continental part of the Republic of Croatia. That money will return, two billion kunas will return because the building will be launched completely. Only if it's like highways that set up while Split's iron and other ironworks failed to import iron from other countries. A gram of iron in Croatia highways that are not invested, is not built into our highways. If the reverse Pelješki bridge is of national interest and can run everything in Croatia, mainly construction starts everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1200	Replica response, dear colleague Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1201	Thank you. So I'm just going to draw you a little attention to why we're fighting and why we're talking about mining wealth. So in the EU, your average of the mining concession paid by those who extract and exploit the mineral wealth between 12% and 20%, it was in Croatia until before 2014 5%, with local self-government income. So we got 2.5, and now 3% of the total, while it's 12% in the EU. if we were not cut off, but if we were on the European average, which I hope we will come and discuss and that we will have the support to get the benefits of what we have below us, because you have the seashore and you have the benefits that you can use from it. We've got 50 years of mine-rich exploitation and we've got nothing to do with it. A fellow Vrdoljak used to speak should drill the Adriatic because we'd be like Norway. In our Podravina, a 50-year drill has been under way for 50 years, thousands of wells and we're worse off, I won't tell you who Albania is, but we're certainly not Norway. So there's a disproportionateity, when INA was sold, a large proportion of INAs didn't come back, we still don't have roads. Take a look at the eastern part of Zagreb, try to compare the road to the car to Dugi Sel, Sesvedi, Vrbovac from the west exit from the city. It is a major injustice that has been quietly created over the past two decades and which needs to be corrected and which can be corrected by this Government by investing as was once invested towards the highway towards Split towards Dalmatia, and through Podravska highway which has a daily traffic of vehicles on average at an annual level higher than Dalmatina until two years ago. So there is a need, and if we will not correct the old injustices then we will continue to watch our young ones leave Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1202	Okay. We're moving on with the debate. SDP representative club co-worker Siniša Hajdas Doncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1203	Vice President of the Parliament. First of all, I congratulate Mr Plenkovic on his election victory, and I hope that this team that... chooses to coordinate successfully. And on behalf of the SDP club, I would like to point out and comment on a few key things on the topic of presenting the programme and drawing up a new Croatian government. First of all, I would like to point out the importance of ideologies. words that are particularly important for the Social Democrats, and recently they have been given an unwarranted negative meaning because of another word that has entered the Croatian media space, which is the word community, which absolutely means nothing. So ideology is not the failed regimes of the 20th century, but ideology for us is primarily a relationship to health care, to education, to public well-being, to environmental protection and anti-fascism. I am therefore surprised that I think on page 4 on the basis of the government programme's fundamental origins it was deliberately left out that, apart from the victory in the Homeland War, modern Croatia was created in the establishment of the foundation of state sovereignty in the period of World War II, it was expressed contrary to the declaration of an independent state of Croatia in the decisions of the Earth Antifascist Council of National Liberation of Croatia, and then in the Constitution of the National Republic of Croatia of 1947 and afterwards in the constitutions of the Socialist Republic of Croatia since '63. by 1990 and at a historic turning point in the rejection of the communist system and the change of international order. I believe that formulation was personally written by the president of your party Dr. Franjo Tudjman, otherwise Zagorje Partizan, a member of the Partisan squad, Stjepan Radic, a Kalalic Partisan squad, could have been visible even in a series called Pussy Cat. But let's get back to the point, get back to the program. The programme itself is very general without concrete goals, i.e. Indicators that can be measured. So the goals are not smart, so they're not specific, they're not measurable, they're not accessible, they're not realistic and they don't have some time frames, they're just flat and general. The program is full of descriptions like this. that the government will encourage imports, invest in capacities, but again say no deadlines, no funds, or simply no explanation how. It seems to me that you're looking at the economy as a matter of principle, ceris paribus, and we know that change and weeks, if not daily. So there are no promises of yours, no promises of MOST or HDZ, there are no promises of how 180 thousand new employees will be employed, there is no clear position on INA or MOL or MOL and INA and there is no clear attitude on the problem of the Swiss franc. But I can point out that it is indisputable, that only the formation of the government by citizens and also by the public flowed much more painlessly than the last time the prime minister was a completely unknown person, recently arrived from abroad,... A Canadian hockey team fan who needed some time to figure out where he was and what he got himself into. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is good is that this time we have not witnessed numerous talks with potential candidates, where everyone who has been in a position to become minister or minister in the Croatian government and the success of such agreement we have witnessed only a few days after the government's vote of confidence. But the fact is also this time that we learned about the composition of the new government not from the future president, so Mr Plenkovic is already actually from the media and as parliamentary representatives we learned about it the last and actually the night before today when we should vote precisely on the trust of that or such government. Although I do not dispute Mr Plenkovic's views and his right to choose his own ministers as the largest opposition party in the Croatian Parliament, we believe that right now the parliamentary representatives who owe their mandates to Croatian citizens should be those who find out who the new government is and not that they have to wait for media conferences organised in party rooms. The government is still confirmed in parliament, not in political parties' centres. Although there are pleasant personnel solutions in this government, the overall impression is still quite hazy or vague. As we discuss this time who is who and not what is going to happen, we can only look back at the government's structure and some individual names of the people who are proposed for future ministers. Although the media and the pre-election campaign have also announced that a kind of rationalisation of the state administration will be appropriate. Governments, i.e. government vice-presidents will also be resolute ministers, we see that at the last moment a minister has been inserted into the government without portfolios whose role should be the coordination of the work of state offices and agencies. Although the agencies are exclusively responding to their resolution ministries. In this way, the number of ministers has been detained at 20 of which are 4 of the government's vice-presidents. If we see that the number of central offices has increased and the state secretaries have also been introduced then absolutely no rationalization has occurred. I am only saying this because it is once again proving very unpopular to announce the populist measures before the start of work and I deeply trust Mr Plenkovic that you, as future Prime Minister, will leave this rhetoric to your coalition partner, whose populistism is a kind of characteristic of political action. It is also good that the government programme no longer mentions the word reform because for God's sake we are all tired of the words of reform and so on. charismatics. Congratulations to Mr Plenkovic and to the perseverance and appointment of Mrs Obulen to be Minister of Culture. ... I am aware that commendation by the opposition will not benefit Mrs. Obuljen who has already experienced attacks by the radical right hand and even in the ranks of HDZ, her cultural experience is unquestionable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And after the careers she's already made at the Ministry of Culture, I personally believe she'll be a successful head of the Ministry of Culture. Unfortunately, however, I cannot commend Mr Kujundzic's choice as Minister of Health because as much as I am pleased with the modern European direction in selecting Mrs Obulen, I am so concerned with the radical direction in choosing the Minister of Health. Since we've been facing... radicalisation in the environment of Croatian hospitals raises the question whether the new government will oppose the aspirations to abolish fundamental human freedoms and the right to choose or support them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mr. Plenkovic, yesterday you said that the new government is a combination of experience and youth but it seems to me that before the modern and radically conservative current is within the ruling party. Of the other names, it is a bit surprising but nothing wrong with the fact that, with an amount of 8 billion euros, it will manage for the public a completely unknown person, so future Minister Žalac, who should not be challenged or challenged by regional experience in the preparation of individual regional projects, but the system of European funds management at national level is a more complex and much more responsible job. The future minister of science and education is already a subject of media inscriptions because of his unworthy departure from the ministry which is now being returned to the head as well as information about unfair academic behaviour, so the question is what kind of message we send to the system and young people in Croatia to whom he should manage. And finally, perhaps most importantly, the parliamentary deputies are not and will not have the opportunity to discuss the government's work programme in quality, which, as last time, falls into another plan as if it were irrelevant what will happen over the next 4 years. The author of the HDZ pre-election programme as the most appropriate that this programme will not be part of the government's work, so we are left to conduct the programme by people who have not even worked in the hope of creating it will do something. About how much and how they're going to tell us and how they're going to choose their closest associates in the coming months. And finally, since this is a kind of continuation of the government of MOST and HDZ, the SDP will not give you 100 or 30 days of peace but Mr Plenkovic will breathe for his collar. And therefore we will not support your government in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1204	Thank you. There's only one replica and it's Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1205	Thank you very much, my colleague Doncic is, not going to this first part you're talking about, to this first one where you recited about 2. World War I. The fact that in the 1990s the sons of Partisans and Ustasha together in the trench created a free independent native Croatia in unity and reconciliation. And on that trail, we should all go. Absolutely if this has to do with social democracy, all the options were politically defended regardless of the political option they were in, the Homeland War, which had the will and will to defend the Republic of Croatia. As far as mentioning why INA and MOL, and us as a populist from MOST, I certainly won't be like you populists or Social Democrats to manage and protect national interests from Tac. It seems to me that's what it's called, that we protect national interests and declare the Republic of Croatia a random state. Surely we will not, we will certainly defend as MOST that EU funds of 2 billion kuna used by the OPG and the poor do not go to the bosses or tycoons. It'll protect MOST, those interests for sure. And that's what we showed in protecting the case at the INA-e-MOL where we were clearly ready to give our chairs, which is why there were elections if you don't remember. Well, I know yours while you were Minister of Airport, we certainly won't hand over the airport in such a way as to harm Croatia's foreign investors, Zagreb. We'll certainly protect national interests, fight of course. Surely MOST wouldn't exist if it weren't for a politician like you covering yourself under social democracy, and basically, if you're Social Democrats, then I'm Che Guevara. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1206	The next club is the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party and distinguished counterpart Kreso Beljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1207	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Plenkovic, the ladies and colleagues of the Parliament. Let me also, with a few sentences, address this item on the agenda on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Assembly Club. I have to make one of my observations before, these last five, six days as long as this session is going on. I and some of my colleagues here who were first elected parliamentary representatives must say that we are consistent with the way of work of the Croatian Parliament. If we had all the men who took the hooks, took the wooden plows and if our fellow MPs had just carried the water in these five days, we would have plowed out several acres of Croatian land and we would have done something useful. And what we all do together and what the entire Croatian public sees is just not useful. This item of the agenda is called the presentation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the vote of confidence of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Instead of short, clear, and resolutional views, we are running disputes, replicas and replicas here that last for hours and hours and that don't simply lead to anything. If this is how it has been done in the Croatian Parliament in the last 25 years, and it is, obviously, no wonder we are here today. Mr Plenkovic said that Croatia has progressed across all segments over the past 25 years. I wouldn't agree with that. For the first time in this year, Croatia was standing above the president, above the chair of the president of the Croatian Parliament, with 4 million and 800 thousand inhabitants, and today, according to the latest indicators or statistical estimates, there are no 4 million of them with these evictions. In 1991, Croatia had a community that protected us from large-serb aggression. There was no question of who the Ustasha is, or who the Partisan is, who is, as unfortunately, whose question is in the last few years when they shared in Croatian society more than ever. It's not progress, it's a setback. Croatia was economically capable of bringing out major Serbian aggression, i.e. the defence war, it was economically capable of caring for more than 500 thousand refugees and exiles, it was developed in terms of industry, as regards shipbuilding, as far as agriculture is concerned, the Croatian village was not abandoned as it was today, Croatia was a country that was able to learn in the EU and 1990 without any problems. Today it is simply not, today there are no Croatian banks, today there is no Croatian industry, today there are no Croatian villages and soon ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues will not be and the Croatian city continued to do so all together. I will talk to you about the motive of the HSS representative, by supporting the government of Mr Plenkovic. These motives are not conditioned by entering power, these motives are not conditioned by any talks, negotiations, any future, any supervisory committees, any state-owned enterprises, any constituencies which also bear certain fees, and you know it very well all together, I don't know if the Croatian public knows. Our motive was only one to stop the chaos in a state that has been in the government for more than a year and to stop Croatia, to give Croatian citizens power to try to implement reforms. It is one of the only motives why HSS deputies will vote for the Croatian government and Prime Minister Plenkovic. The program we've got is a list of beautiful desires, we all know it together, and we're all aware of what we need to do and what we have to do but there's no answer to the question of how do we get to it? I hope that Mr. Plenkovic and his ministers will seek the help of the profession if they themselves do not know how politicians come to the right solutions or to answer the questions that bother us all. We will not be a party in position, or we will be an opposition party. But it is also a fact that we will support everything that is good because it is in the interests of the Republic of Croatia and in the interests of our people. That's how everyone should behave. That's why people chose us to take care of interests, not to look at petty party particular interests because of these same interests, Croatian society is divided, divided, more divided than ever. And so from this crisis, deep economic, moral and any crisis we'll never get out of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1208	We have four replicas. He is the first respected representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1209	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Beljak said that the new representatives have introduced some unacceptable methods of conduct into the Croatian Parliament, that we have only infertile debates that no one has any use for. I don't know, I haven't seen him around much here in the assembly. We are present here, we are working hard, more laws have been sent into the procedure under discussion, and I don't think the Parliament has ever worked more intensively and there's been this many laws in the legal procedure. It's precisely these legal proposals that come in favor of our fellow citizens. So here's what I'd like him to explain what he meant because I haven't seen him around much here in the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1210	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1211	I'm supposed to explain? The instructions are charged at £150 an hour, so if you want to be here alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1212	Okay. There's nothing to go on. The next representative is distinguished counterpart Zeljko Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1213	Dear colleagues, my grandfather was a member of the Croatian Republican peasant party HRSS, she first and I think the old one is now spinning in the grave if he saw what was going on. I'd agree here with Mr. Whitey here to make this a little too much like the Central Committee, this debate. But at least someone outside will hear what they haven't heard before in that media blockade, primarily that strange word of nationalisation and two million hectares of agricultural land taken from the Croats after '45. A year. Yeah, that's not the past, that's the present. And secondly, to learn about some HSS Yugoslavs, the only country in Europe was a communist who had a peasant rebellion after World War II, where they killed peasants there in Eastern Slavonia and hung both Croats and Muslims and Serbs in Slun in the 1950s. It's history. And until that word is solved, until he comes back and we're doing another nationalization here. Who is given this land, whose right is up there and which one is this, who's holding it now. Todoric still has that head? The Croatian couldn't have the tractor until the 1960s and that used tractor. It's not the past, it's the present. That hasn't gotten rid of it yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1214	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica of my colleague, Beljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1215	Here's a respected colleague, Glasnović, I'm not a history teacher, so I don't know what his tariff is, but I think you should learn some facts about Croatian history. Because a lot of things you represent in both the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Parliament have nothing to do with the truth. Which is also how in World War II I think it is the Western Europe in which Croatia is hoping to solve the Nuremberg processes in 1945, and all other audits that some are trying to impose on Croatia are only damages. Here, please find a good history teacher to teach you a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1216	Third replica of the distinguished representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1217	As a possible new contribution to political science, I would only ask for an explanation. Does HSS intend to be an opposition party supporting the government or the pro-government party in the opposition?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1218	I'd just like to ask you to come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1219	I'm sorry, I don't know what else is going on.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1220	It's okay. Let it be. I'm also interested in the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1221	Well, I wonder if I'll answer Mr. Stazic in fact. The fact is that we went to elections as part of the People's Coalition and the fact is that we achieved a good result for the HSS exclusively thanks to the People's Coalition and we are grateful for that. We are the opposition party that has decided to support Mr Plenkovic not because we are entering power, but because of the agony of the months-long negotiations that some others have caused in the past year, to end the crisis, to give opportunity to new people, to try to make a new man, and of course we will act as an opposition party in any other case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1222	And the fourth replica, colleague Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1223	Comrade Beljak, Parliament is the largest legislative body and is democratically expected to have a debate on all matters of diversity, prescribed by the Rules of Procedure to present everything we have. So this is expected to be a key body in the Republic of Croatia, which will be discussed, on all issues and so on and on about the new prime minister and on the new government or on any other point. Maybe it wasn't you at the sessions until now for the last five, six days. But it just has to be in democracy. It's been a while since the great leaders where as Mao Ce-tung went out on stage and said it has to be like this, no speech, I'd be an eagle, I'd dig. That time has passed. Mao Ce-tung somewhere might still live in some heads. However, this is a democratic republic with democratic standards, oatmeals. It's just like that. You have a Rules of Procedure, you can respect it, you don't have to. You can give rehearsals, you don't have to. You have your own club. So you can function at will, but this is one democratic body that must not be humiliated and mocked because all the people have chosen us not just you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1224	The answer to the replica of my colleague, Beljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1225	Thank you very much, dear fellow Bull. Yes, the people chose us, it's a fact. We got votes, not to have unnecessary debates, but to actually do something. Now imagine someone on the side who's watching all this. Well, today, you're the only one who's replicated one 20 times today, just you. All right, I understand both democracy and law and all. It's a natural thing that times of great leaders have passed, but it doesn't lead my people anywhere. That's all I wanted to say. It just doesn't lead anywhere. Anyway, thanks for the lessons, so if you need me to buy you some lunch or something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1226	Okay, before we move to an individual debate, we have another club, it's a HDS and HSLS club, a respected colleague, Darinko Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1227	I would like to start by saying that you will have the support of our HDS and HSLS Club. I want to especially highlight your personal role because the role of the first man is always the most important. You have shown in the elections that one man can change the political trends, you have shown that you can come to this Croatian government's proposal in a peaceful and complex way, so I expect you to now be determined to lead the Croatian government. I want to highlight from your speech what is important to the Croatian public, which is that you will also respect the proposals of the opposition if they are good. This boredom was generally not the practice of both the government and the Croatian Parliament. And I expect you to do in this way what most Croatian citizens expect, which is that we have the Croatian government and most of them in the Croatian Parliament who will not seek what divides us, but what connects us all, as you said in your speech that you will be the Prime Minister of all Croatian citizens. Our club and I personally expect it from you. As for the candidates for vice presidents and ministers, I would especially like to stress that all candidates have the support of our club. From our honorable war generals who are now candidates for ministers and vice-presidents of the government, professional and respected people from the sphere of economy and finance to candidates for education and culture. I want to be very clear because each of these candidates has their own biography. I said here in the Assembly nine months ago that in Croatia being a minister is no reward if you do your job responsibly it is a great responsibility and in some ways a cross and I expect those who will be elected as ministers today to take it with dignity because these roles have been accepted. On behalf of our club, we normally expect that the emphasis of work and this House will be on social and economic reforms, but above all, you will be on social and economic reforms. That is what Croatian citizens expect and that is what is most important to Croatian citizens. I know there are representatives here who run away from the words of the reform because in the four years of their term of office they have not implemented any reforms. But reforms should be discussed and because they have not been implemented for 4 years I expect this Croatian government to implement them and that is why I am here in the Croatian Parliament and therefore I support you and your candidates for ministers in the Croatian government. These are tax system reforms, redundancies of the economy but, above all, the private sector because we all get salaries from those people who work primarily in the private sector, normally throughout the economy and the public administration, but the most important ones are those from the private sector, those who work in agriculture. On behalf of our club, it is very important for me that this programme has given agriculture the place to have because we are such a country that can feed half of Europe, and we do not feed ourselves. We also expect full reform of educational reform. I am pleased that you personally, and I expect then the entire government, and the resolute minister, support further implementation of educational and curricular reforms. I think that should be said clearly from this pay phone. In the end, we expect judicial reform because we live in a state where there are no judgments, where no one is guilty of anything when he is guilty and not guilty. And that one who isn't guilty doesn't know that he's not guilty and that whoever's guilty has never been convicted. So we just have to open the question and we have to solve it, and I expect it from you and the Secretary-General. I hope that this session of the Parliament no matter how long this political circus will end and that we will be able to deal with concrete legal solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1228	Thank you, too. Since there is no replica, we move on to an individual debate. The first speaker to speak is Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1229	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister with candidates and candidates for ministers, colleagues and colleagues. So here's what I mentioned at the very beginning in some replicas, I'm glad we have a concrete document in front of us, not a picture book like we had last time that was literally just a printed power point presentation and not an important programming document. So, you've passed the first test and I congratulate you on that. Five pillars of development have been announced, and I intend to limit myself to some and make some of my proposals, express some doubts. I wouldn't just stick around on those pillars, or I'd talk about two, and that's tax reform and reform of the education system. I'd add a regional development that's been spoken of here. When we talk about tax reform, I must admit that I look forward to getting a proposal for reforming the tax package or a package of tax reforms to see what it will contain in particular. Because we ourselves know that our tax policy has often been burdensome in terms of encouraging investment and fostering the economy. So if I'm just going to tell you and list some of the tax taxes that we have in our current tax system it's a value added tax, profit tax, special taxes, excise taxes, inheritance taxes and gifts, taxes on road motor vehicles, taxes on vessels, taxes on automatics, fun games etc., etc. not to list them all, according to whether they belong to state, county, local, etc. The very fact that I can't list them all in some reasonable time tells me a lot about the complexity of our tax system. What we should do is make it as transparent as possible and... in order to say or unrequited to potential users especially investors in the Republic of Croatia. So in one simple way not only for them but also for all to invest and who want to work in Croatia, it will be clear which taxes are paid, why and what is financed from certain taxes. I would also like to urge you to consider the so-called "tax reform" as well. tax havens, not with that negative sound, but as with geographical oasis where there would be relief for certain activities, were therefore those industrially defined branches of industry, manufacturing, service, etc. We also had the case, though he applied for all of Croatia when we reduced taxes on tourism and VAT on tourism services, but also when we speak, for example, I cited this example before about IT. In Osijek there is Osijek Software City so there is already a base of people entrepreneurs dealing with IT industry. Why don't one of our undeveloped regions step up right through this by stimulating certain industries in this case the IT industry that has an exceptional added value, so the production industry 100% of their products is exported and has the highest added value, why don't they strengthen the east of our Croatian industry. Why wouldn't the same person be a tax oasis for some other sector, etc., etc. When we talk about reforming the education system, the curricular reform launched by the past government was born a child of a strategy for the development of education. We started to think strategically, or we started to bring documents, strategies, visions of what we want and how we want to develop Croatia we also brought this strategy, but it is not the only one, there is a strategy for the development of entrepreneurship. And what we expect from this government are other strategies that the government has failed to address. But what I would like to underline here, too, and stress that in such documents, we need a consensus, so a broad debate with both the interested public and us as politicians and the profession to ultimately produce a document that is truly quality and that we can all agree on and that we can all work for. The education development strategy was exactly the kind of document that we tried to model. I am sorry that at some point HDZ, as then the main opposition party did not support it, although all their suggestions entered into the strategy, but I hope it will not become a practice and that we will agree on such documents. So the curricula reform was created right from this strategic document. I must express my satisfaction not by the ambiguity of what is written in the Government's programme on the continuation of curricula reform and on the continuation of the reform of education. But what this process has been exposed to so far is, at the very least, a colleague and colleagues outrageously, I believe that most of them will agree with me when I say so, and I will remind you in one sentence what it was all about, it's an imposition of the world's so-called "worldly." experts, different stakeholders who began to interfere in the process of quasi experts and similar who had forever imposed their thesis and their visions, although no legitimacy in my opinion was available, both professional and any other, and were solely exerting political pressure. In such an important area, it is necessary to have a consensus to remove all possible areas of stumbling precisely in order to have the most qualitative document, i.e. the most qualitative process and reform that I am pleased to recognize as one of the strategic specifics, that for a strong economy we must have quality education and that quality education is a guarantee of economic development. I can only express to the reserve that some of my colleagues mentioned earlier in staff solutions or in the person of the minister who should continue this. So I don't know if it's true what we've been reading in the media, I've seen the minister reject it, but I hope that his work will speak for him. And what I can tell the Minister and the Prime Minister or the candidate for the minister that this portfolio will follow and that my support will have as long as this process is guided by the elements that I have just stated. So first of all, the emphasis on the profession on the quality of the process and on impartiality, above all, the worldly deprived of any of the world's problems, so to speak. And finally, regional development, the Slavonia Project, I will reiterate my satisfaction that so much about Slavonia is being told. I have already said several times in the debate that exactly the region of eastern Croatia, so Slavonia, Baranja, Western Srijem was worst hit and war destruction but also with an economic crisis and that, at least by my free court, we are one of the most popular parts of Croatia and demographic and economical almost in every sense. I would also like to point out once again that Slavonia is not only a farm, although agriculture is one of the main congestiones of Slavonia's development, but it should not be seen so closely. In Slavonia and Baranja there is also a very successful continental tourism that should also be supported by other industries. So our transport infrastructure is now relatively good and we just need to capitalise on all the benefits we already have. Rural development and irrigation have also been mentioned, and I would also like to express just a little skepticism about this irrigation. We are forever talking about irrigation, but the fact that the state has invested considerable money in the Velishkovci-Gat operation remains unused is the fact that the state has invested considerable money. And why is that? Because there are simply no users because agricultural producers do not have enough large particles, because there are not enough users, because sometimes soil is simply not suitable for irrigation. So there are a whole series of problems that need to be explored and well studied before the state engages in some major investments. In the end, and with this, we would end our discussion, Mr. Plenkovic, future president of the Croatian government, we are aware of the problems our region of Eastern Croatia faces and we are aware of this problem at all levels. So we Councilors and Councilors of the County Assembly of Osijek-Baranja County brought one document and this is the Declaration on the State and Perspectives of Development and Progress of Osijek-Baranja County. This document, although it has the Osijek-Baranja County in its name, is very easy to use for all Slavonian counties although there are some specialities here. But I would take this opportunity and give this document to the prime minister, and I know that he has a lot of work to do now, but I also believe that knowing that this problem exists and that we are considering it locally and that we are willing to help and proposals but also by working to help him in his work. The more this document is a product of consensus from all political parliamentary parties in the county assembly. So the party you belong to, Mr. Plenkovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1230	I thank my colleague Hajdukovic. We have three replicas. The first replica is the esteemed representative Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1231	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You expressed satisfaction with your colleague Hajdukovic with the read part of the programme relating to education and talks about the continuation of full curricula reform. I must admit that I would personally be careful in expressing satisfaction with this sentence, let us not forget that 10 months ago in this same Croatian Assembly, we were assured in the same way that a tipfeller occurred when a complete curricula reform was announced, and then eight months later we witnessed the procedures that they did absolutely everything that led the people who led the then expert working group to starve to euthanasia, that these people would resign. After that, 450 experts from our schools who participated in the creation of full curricular reform without any thanks have been unfairly fired, forced in some way to their homes, and we don't know what kind of curricula reform we're talking about today. The total curricula reform that has been working on for a year and a half no longer exists, no one is working on it. Those people were fired, those people were rejected. So I have to admit that I can't share this pleasure with you, we'll see what will bring time, one of these experiences we've had bigger. To this extent, things were absurd that when 40,000 Croatian citizens in 5 Croatian cities expressed their dissatisfaction with the actions of the then government of the gentlemen were saying that people were waiting... Not only did they stop something, not only did the citizens of the Republic of Croatia see that something good was being stopped for Croatian, but all those people were also being disrespected. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1232	Thank you. Reply to the replica of counterpart Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1233	Thank you very much. My fellow thank you for actually this supplement. I could probably spend a whole debate just talking about what went wrong in this process, what seemed bad and what were the failures of the government in the last term. I said that some unheard things happened, at least for me and for the democratic process, but also for the professional relationship to work. We often talk about kidnapping that the good projects of any government should continue, should be supported, unfortunately, at least as far as the last government is concerned, we haven't been able to witness it. All that was in the way was destroyed there if it was estimated that it was not in the interest of certain groups. What I've expressed satisfaction with is I just want to give what the English would say benefit of the doubt. I want to give this government a chance to talk me out of it, to show that they will have the strength to keep working on this. I do, so I hope I'm not wrong, but time will tell. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1234	Second replica, distinguished colleague Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1235	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Col. Hajduković, you have touched on the importance of education in general in your debate, but I would like to complement you and by drawing attention and to science, so as someone who comes to this higher house from the Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb, I must say after all these events that you have seen lately and which is not the first time to happen, that there is one crisis in the November democracy and in the space that students have for participation in decision-making. I think Mr. Barisic here has a very wide and large space to leave his mark which I hope will be positive and I would actually like to encourage him to do. That's what matters. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1236	Thank you for the reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1237	Thank you very much, very much, very much. Thank you very much, very much, very much, Of course science is the same thing that's extremely important, I haven't been able to look back at it in the debate, it just doesn't have enough time. But when we talk about reforming our entire system and science and education, we should take small steps if you ask me. So one so large system needs to start slowly and gradually changing and I think it needs to be changed from the foundation and not from the roof. Science is a roof, science will be the same. And what we should be particularly proud of is that our science produces very high-quality scientists. It is now our mission and responsibility to the government and to all find ways to keep them in Croatia so that they can work and create in Croatia and not sell their knowledge abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1238	And another replica of the esteemed colleague Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1239	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, on several occasions, regional development was mentioned today, including counterpart Hajdukovic. I would like to repeat again for the sake of the truth, for the first time in the term of office of our government, the index that the HDZ Government had previously staged was applied. Here especially fellow Bull always insists on it, gone now, but it would be good if he were there, I always repeat the same thing. So that index of his damaged some units of local self-government. However, it cannot be mentioned that as many as 100 municipalities that have never been in the support system in 20 years have entered the support system, and 95 of them are located in Slavonia and northern Croatia as the most underdeveloped parts of Croatia in general. Thus, the index fulfilled its first and most important task of introducing one of the just systems. Of course, we are now in phase two and I agree with all those who say that this project should be further developed. And that means that this index should be created, upgraded and made as objective as possible. And also something that my colleague Bulj always mentions, and which doesn't stand quite to the end, even the units from the mountainous and mountainous areas, which means Sinj, which means Vrgorac, and that means that even a whole series of municipalities in Gorski Kotar have received a new system of support first and foremost a larger share of income tax, which has returned part of not all support, but part of the support that previously worked for those areas. And that's the truth. Therefore, we have done this work seriously. And one more thing, counterpart Bacic mentioned the establishment of a Regional Development Fund, i.e. the EU Project Co-financing Fund. It's our project, I personally launched it, and this project is working well now. Every year 150 million merges into that fund and unfortunately these money is still not spent because there are not enough projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1240	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1241	Thank you, fellow Greek for the supplement. What I have missed to say and what I would like to underline here, so when we look at the care for special parts of Croatia in this programme, the islands are listed, the mountain-mounted areas are listed. Of course, and the islands should be listed, and the islands have their special features just like the mountainous and mountainous areas, but I think it is especially important to list Slavonia for the very reasons that I have mentioned before, which is more imaginative, economically however you want to devast. So what we did as the last government was just doing in this direction to the municipalities and Slavonia, of course, but everywhere else in Croatia goes to meet those below development, means below some standard of development to allow them access to larger funds. It is, of course, a system that is alive and that needs to be constantly refreshed and innovated, but now that responsibility is on top of others and what I can tell them is that we will be corrective. So we'll watch you do it and if you don't do something good in our opinion we won't have any doubts about it and talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1242	It's time for the distinguished colleague Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1243	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Prime Minister Mr. Plenkovic, distinguished candidates for vice-presidents and ministers in the government, colleagues and colleagues long ago there was a lecture, I remember being present, so after a lecture, it was customary for people to ask questions about it, at that point one man asked the question. They all started laughing because they thought it was a stupid question. He turned to them and told you it might be funny to me it's a matter of life and death. Why am I saying that? I've come to the hearing myself. I don't share my fellow white man's opinion. We agents here need to talk. We often talk often and because of the people who chose us, often this may seem unnecessary to someone, but some people find it extremely important. We do not doubt that even future debates here in the Parliament when we talk about the moves of the future government will often be called upon, especially by those who are in the ruling majority, why you didn't do it while you were and you were doing it like this. And that's normal, it's in democratic procedure normal. However, Mr Plenkovic, I would like to ask you a few questions that I think are important for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Are you going to look for an alibi in your work for your previous condition, or are you going to work on it, based on the trust you received without that alibi? You've found certain positive indicators, someone will say it's the merit of the former government, someone's thinking about this former government of broken ties, I think the government of Zoran Milanovic has been doing its job for the best she's known for four years, seriously and those indicators have come today, but in the elections it wasn't enough. You have received trust and if the "Time Is Money" proverb is ever more relevant then it is today. Will you in your work require your associates, ministers, Deputy Prime Ministers, Assistants, State Secretarys and even lower levels of general interest above private and party interests. Here's an example: I was personally disturbed by the past government of Tihomir Oreskovica General Hospital in Virovitica received 33 million kunas approved for the equipment of the new hospital tract here my colleague Sinisa Varga was a minister, they signed contracts, but former Minister Nakic stopped it. I've assessed it as being exclusively of some kind of party interest. Will you stand up to that? Will you engage in the protection of human rights and freedoms, the rights of minorities, the rights of those who are different and different? Will you leave history to professional people, not to daily politics? And will you also leave the education here to people who know what it means to carry a directory and journal to the class, who know what it means to run the cathedrals? So all those who are professional in this field because of the education of our future generations, will you advocate to prevent any impatience in society? The rights acquired here are already more or less clear if we talk about 35 billion for pensions, 35 billion for wages and material costs, about the same amount for health care, the social, a certain number of incentives, here is mentioned 27 billion kuna interest, and when we add up the deficit she sees that this government won't have much space either. What we expect of you as prime minister is to make it clear to all people what the rights are that you might lose. There was an attempt during the government of Tihomir Oreshkovic to increase additional health insurance, to somehow privatise the health system. It's not a good message, but if the government has to do something to hurt a certain group of people then it has to be made clear and loud in that direction and I ask you to do it. When it comes to foreign policy and the protection of state interests, and here I am asking you as an agent to represent these interests both when it comes to MOL and when it comes to the law on the conversion of loans from francs to euro, so that you represent the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and by no means the interests of the banks. And in the end, Slavonia. I think in your presentation, in the government program, you said that the county should be strengthened. I don't mind, but we'll see soon. Here comes the Law on selecting representatives in the Croatian Parliament when it comes to EU funds. Therefore, Slavonia should still be observed if not administratively, at least statistically as a region. And I think that Slavonia is in this state as it is, and today it is repeatedly highlighted, our county Slavonian is at the beginning in the Republic of Croatia according to all indicators. I think it's going to take a lot of effort to change this situation. There's a minister from my county, a future minister from my county who's got a hard-on for the Ministry of Agriculture. Here's some concrete moves. Help him, let him transfer Našice forest management to Slatin, to the management of Nature Park Papuk to Voćin. There's no colleague Ronk, so I can say that. So these are some concrete moves that will affect the fairer distribution of goods especially in poorer regions. And Mr. Plenkovic, here's a quick road from Vrbovac to Virovitica for the next few years. These are specific things that are important for Slavonia, they are important for Virovitica-Podravska County. And if that's how this government works, it'll work. And in the end, I will not support this government, but I wish you all success in your work first and foremost for the sake of the well-being of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1244	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sagar. Since we have no reported replicas, we move on to the next debate. Dear fellow MP Mr. Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1245	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here, in an individual debate, I would like to show my confidence to you as a prime minister and to all members of the future government, and it is undeniable that there is an electoral legitimacy which the parties who make up the new government have won in the elections. But there is also the legitimacy of this good programme, not only of the programmes but of the proposed people who need to implement the programme tomorrow. It's about people who definitely everyone in their biography sees that they have references and they've done something in their lives. It is not their first jobs, but everyone in their area of action who has achieved results, and it is a guarantee that this programme will be implemented. The programme obviously well defined and well analyzed the situation in which the Republic of Croatia is today. It's really hard. It is marked by unemployment, marked by a poor image of demographics in Croatia. It is marked by a deficit, a large public debt, and therefore the only way to get out of this difficult situation is precisely what the programme offers, which is economic growth, this is an increase in employment and thus from increased GDP, from increased economic activities we will reduce public debt, jobs will be opened, youth care will be taken. But what I want to especially point out is what makes me happy about the programme is the situation that this time we have a ministry that will focus on a demographic picture of Croatia. Because I think that's one big problem and maybe the biggest one. He also marks the present, but if these parameters that are here today continue... what a future we'll have. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we are going to be less and less as these trends show, with whom we will achieve economic growth, who we will hire, who will earn for pensions, it is known that we now have in the budget where we have to provide 37 billion kuna for pensions of Croatian citizens, of which 19 billion we only collect from contributions and the rest we have to settle from the budget. In the future, if trends like this arise, there will be even more pensioners and fewer workers. So I see that the program comes from those essential items that need to be improved in order for society to move forward. The social moment in Croatia still shows in the last year, regardless of what we have had for the first time in a year, a crisis of society management that we have not had before. But it does show signs of recovery, because we see that in the past is actually slightly less than a year, and even in the period before there was an increase in GDP, there was a decrease in public debt, there was a decrease in deficits, the tourist season was better. And these are all indicators that offer certain courage, certain next moves and certain optimism. So this government that I'm going to believe is confirmed now, the voted trust, I think we need to pull forward hard and all these indicators that are still fragile so we can talk about some big progress must raise us up so that all these indicators are even stronger. What's going to be in some focus of my activity and my action where I feel this way at home, that's the public administration in the broad sense of the word, the judiciary. And here I also see that there are measures to get the judiciary the way we deserve it, which is a modern, fast, efficient judiciary. Because business events and life in the business world happen quickly and the judiciary must also come to that level to be quick. Because it can't happen that business entities on our market are based on the fact that I'm not gonna pay you, I'm really worried, when I get to court, it's gonna be run for years, and I'm gonna get away with it somehow. I see here that there are solutions. Applying very modern technologies, digitisation should definitely be introduced here. But what's one of the key problems is getting the land books together. We know that in the last few years, for years it's actually been in history, we've been editing land books. And now we've created that digital, common system, common information system where we have catastra and land books in the same place. There we now need to work on further cleaning up this system, because the data from catasters and land books are not equal. They really need to be harmonised, which is not easy, it's a huge and big deal. But not only that, but it is important to create a common institution that is foreseen here by this programme to unite and to get one synergy and professional people in the cataster and in land books that will make this process easier. So here we are today at the confidence stage. We've all trusted someone in our lives. Very often, it was known to fail our trust and to say that we did not give it to the right address. I deeply believe and feel that today when I trust this government that in 4 years at the end of this term, we will come to a situation of satisfaction because this programme obliges us and that we will say at the end of 4 years we have fulfilled most of it, we are on the right track, Croatia is rising and Croatia will be a better state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1246	I thank my esteemed colleague Bošnjakovic. We don't have a report for replicas. Next, an esteemed colleague, Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic, applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1247	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, colleagues and colleagues, I will repeat at the very introduction of this debate that I am not fully satisfied with this programme because it is superficial because it does not bring clearly measurable goals that should reflect everything that was in the campaign. I will repeat that there is no mention of the national reform plan and the convergence programme of April 2016 anywhere in the programme, especially the part concerning education, and I do not share the opinion of my colleague Hajdukovic because it is completely superficially talking about reform. It is said in a way that it actually does not commit anyone to anything in this text because the funds that we need to withdraw from European funds are very important in the national reform plan in Chapter 4 of the education for the labour market are implemented by the curricula reform and the development programme of vocational education. In this regard, colleagues and colleagues are currently having a debate with the interested public concerning amendments to the Law on Education and Education, in which no provision is provided for all that is necessary in order for the curricula reform to be implemented. So, I'm sorry to say this, but the curricula reform is dead. She's dead and she doesn't exist right now. But what's the bigger tragedy? Under the light of the reflector, there was a legislative reform and the implementation of the National Strategy for Education, Science and Technology was completely neglected. So, on 17 October 2014, the 2-year anniversary of that day was completed, here in the Parliament we adopted the National Strategy for Development, Education, Science and Technology. It's a key document. Without this document, we would not have 511m euros in funds at our disposal. The non-implementation of this strategy automatically calls into question the further withdrawal of these funds. Every two years it is necessary to analyse the implementation of the National Strategy for Education, Science and Technology. Here I will read you what it says in our strategy that was adopted without any vote against. So it's also important to emphasize without any vote against. HDZ colleagues were restrained, but you know why? And now you have a chance to make it right. You've been restrained, I remind you, although you know it, because you said there wasn't enough money provided to implement the strategy. So that was the reason for abstention. The strategy was good, that's what you said in the debate, but there's not enough money. Come on, let's go secure that money now. Therefore, the mission and vision of the Croatian educational and scientific system: "The mission of the Croatian education system is to ensure quality education available to all under equal conditions according to the abilities of each user of the system. The mission of the Croatian scientific system is to improve the overall global knowledge fund and contribute to the improvement of Croatian society, especially the economy. The vision on which this strategy rests is a Croatian society where quality education has an important impact on the life of each individual, on social relations and on the development of the economy. Croatian society will be democratic, tolerance and innovation and the personality of each individual will be able to achieve full expression. The economy will be largely based on advanced technologies that allow the creation of high added value and quality educational individuals will find suitable... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” [[You don't understand.]] Here I call on the prime minister to write this exactly in this government programme in the part where there is no mention of the National Strategy for Development of Education, Science and Technology, because without this strategy, there is actually no legislative reform. I will remind you that this strategy that we have adopted and which is, in fact, the obligation of all of us parliamentary representatives is a whole series of objectives, measures, indicators of the implementation of measures and financial resources. So these are measures that are clearly defined, which are being implemented. Early preschool, primary school, secondary education and education, higher education, adult education, lifelong learning, science and technology. So here's an example of how it was worked out for higher education. There are eight goals for higher education. The first objective is to improve the study programmes through consistent implementation of the Bologna reform and to redefine the competences gained by it. The second objective is to establish a quality binary system of higher education in line with national needs and the principle of effective management of higher schools. Third, ensure a quality personnel structure of higher schools as a basis for improving the quality of higher education. Fourthly, ensure an effective developmental incentive system for high-school funding. Ensure satisfactory space and information and communication resources of higher schools. The sixth objective, to improve the student standard with special care for the social dimension of study. Seventh, internationalise higher education and more integrate it into a European and world higher education space. And the eighth, ensure the appropriate importance of the culture of quality and the principle of responsibility for higher education. Each objective shall have developed measures, implementation indicators and financial resources. Therefore, I appeal not to invent hot water but to go into the realisation of the Strategy of Education, Science and Technology. In order to analyse first what the entire government has done the material written on 20.04.2016, it was developed by a special expert commission for the implementation of the Education, Science and Technology Strategy and which discusses the report on the implementation of this strategy from 24 October 2014 to 31 March 2015. And there's all the answers. All you have to do is start working. What I'm sorry, the other day we talked here about how by seizing into the State Sport Office, we would have provided a fairy tale development of Croatian sport today would have been correct if we had heard something in an opening statement about how sports in Croatia would improve. And it might be good if we already knew who was going to run that Central State Sports Office today. About culture, I hope the new minister will take care, not now, that Rijeka is the European representative of culture in 2020 and that the ministry will meet all the obligations it has to give Croatia and Rijeka a decent presentation. And I will end up in healthcare, so we advocate that Croatia be a society of equal opportunities for everyone. There are several conditions for this, one is a quality education that will enable every child to be trained, to acquire knowledge, skills, competences and attitudes and to be an equal member of this society. And secondly, it is safe, solid, comprehensive, and all equally accessible health care. So health care that will not be filled with affairs, delayed projects for which we received money and all that Minister Nakic did in his term. I hope that we will finally use the European funds that are provided for our health care, that the Rijeka Hospital will finally start to build, not just start doing everything for pre-election purposes. It is clear from all of this that neither I nor the rest of my colleagues can support such a programme of government nor ministers who are proposed, and not especially candidates for the Ministry of Science and Education, which is to be conducted by the Ministry of Science and Education, and even before and after that a message that must not be sent to the academic community, students, can be managed by the Ministry of Science and Education.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1248	I thank my esteemed colleague, Zeljko Jovanovic. We have several replicas, the first to appear for the replica was the honourable parliamentary representative, Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1249	Thank you, Vice President. Well, dear colleague Jovanovic, I said I was satisfied only with the fact that the government recognized how the reform should continue. Of course, I cannot be satisfied that they have not offered any concrete solutions in this document. So when we talk about education and everything else, we didn't see any concrete measure, at least I didn't see in what I was reading but just how the right hand side of the assembly loved to respect us but just a list of good wishes. I really wish it wasn't a wish list, but we had operational plans, but progress is certainly from that picture book that we had last time, so from a printed PowerPoint presentation in which even parts were missing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1250	I thank my esteemed colleague Hajdukovic for his replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Mr Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1251	Thank you very much. So, colleague Hajdukovic, what should be clearly ordered from this assembly, that what is written in this programme does not in any way mean a continuation of the full curricula reform that is implemented in accordance with the Strategy for Education, Science and Technology.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1252	I thank you for your response to the esteemed colleague Jovanovic. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Zeljko Reiner, reported next to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1253	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. This last sentence of yours is a complete inaccuracy. So, very clearly in the program it says that the government will continue the curricula reform, curicula would be Croatian but okay. I don't know where you're coming from, and that's what you're constantly doing, and I'm going to say about it a little later with a very clear goal of why, that curriculous reform is a) one stopped, a) two that it's not a consistent strategy. However, some of the things they tried to implement were in conflict with the strategy. The strategy, for example, clearly defines in point 2.1 how observations are evaluated in the public debate. And it is procedurally not acceptable that the same working group that made the proposal then assesses the comments itself and says this comment I will accept, and this one does not, and this one has happened. The exact opposite of the strategy, so what was trying to implement was inconsistencies with the strategy. I, however, do not see any disagreement with the strategy in this programme that the government is proposing. However, it seems to me that it is precisely on the trail of the implementation of the strategy voted in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1254	I thank you for the replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Mr Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1255	Dear academic Rainer, therefore, there is no mention of the National Strategy for Education, Science and Technology in this material. She's like she doesn't exist. Thus, in which way and by which guarantee can be found here in the assembly today, the Education, Science and Technology Strategy will be implemented and without its curriculative reform. So, the curricula reform is a small part of the Strategy for Education, Science and Technology and without the Strategy for Education, Science and Technology there is no curricular reform. And right now, there's no leader, there's no task force, there's no one. And that is why I responsibly claim the curricula reform as it was initiated under this strategy is dead.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1256	I thank you for your response to the esteemed colleague Jovanovic. And the last replica for this debate by Mrs Ines Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1257	Dear counterpart Jovanovic, this former government means Minister Nakic and Minister Tolusic have been thinking on the principle of everyone, and not just them, so instead of 4 they planned to make 7 OHBP means united emergency hospital receptions and instead of 18 even 20 daily hospitals for the same money because it was quite enough to complete the equipment. That's why at one point it stopped and tried a lot more united hospital receptions and daily hospitals to do. And all together, it is planned to invest 898 million in health care to improve the status of our patients to build four hospitals that have been decided to be built from European funds. What's also important is that this government, as you will see, will have a clear national plan to build hospitals so that it doesn't go after grandma and uncles and the Rijeka hospital where you swore so much in all your mandates as you know it was your government's mistake not to make a decision on multi-annual borrowing from the HBOR, which is why everything cared. And great efforts have been made not to stop at work, to start with excavations and the following year at the 4th month when the excavations are completed, you will see phase 1 movement for which the funds are already planned in the future budget, will be clearly foreseen what is needed for phase 1 to end united, a project of hospital for women and children. And that part will be completed in the term of office of this government. So the Rijeka hospital will finally be, but not because of your multi-year plans, but because of the government that started it and that will finish this project in the first phase of the Rijeka hospital.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1258	I thank you for the replica of the esteemed colleague Ines Strenja-Linić. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1259	Mrs. Strenja-Linić, I will not be correcting with you who is responsible for having started at all... River hospitals from the period when this land was assigned to build a university hospital until the moment you and your colleagues took the pre-election play out in the area where the pit started to dig. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for the quality of your work as president of the Committee and Minister in the past term, they best speak these waiting lists that are drastically longer than they were at the beginning of his term.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1260	I thank you for your response to the esteemed colleague Jovanovic. Because we've exhausted the replicas in this debate. We move on to the next debate that was applied for by a distinguished colleague, Sabina Glasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1261	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. After reading the proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I would like to say at the very beginning that I would like to say that here I would personally wish, on page 4 relating to the fundamental points of reference to the judiciary, public administration, the economy, the family, social security, human rights, with an emphasis on minority religious rights and foreign policy, if in fact there was a sentence that education and science were the basis of economic growth, with all due respect to the emphasis on entrepreneurship and the detection of entrepreneurship as a cornerstone of economic growth. However, there is no entrepreneurship and there is no entrepreneurship without investment in the education system which, among other things, students today, children, tomorrow adults need to develop this competence of entrepreneurship so that it develops and contributes to entrepreneurship and everything that can guarantee economic growth. Furthermore, what I want to say is that I want Mr Plenkovic who is not presently and all members and members of the government of the Republic of Croatia to have a lot of success in the reforms they need and have to implement in order for Croatia to be a country where people will live better. Especially this success and happiness, I want a new minister of education and science, Mr Barisic. He will indeed need courage, perseverance and happiness in his ministry because what he will find is certainly not something that is fitting for a country living in the 21st century and which is a full member of the EU. So you will meet Mr. Barisic at the Ministry of Science and Education and Sports with a financial problem in the sense that you will not have enough funds for 75% co-financing of the local transportation of secondary school students. Because the government also planned funds through the budget only by the end of June but as the government disintegrated in the meantime, the parliament was in fact disbanded then quickly before the election this summer decided to leave the measure, but the budget was not planned until the end of the year, or for the period from September to December. Furthermore, you will also meet with the requirements of students, as regards the regulation of scholarship payments, we know that Minister Sustar actually for the first time in the history of himself and the Ministry and the Republic of Croatia has put the students in a position to raise a tent in front of the ministry in order to pay them something that belongs to them, something that they went through in a public competition and these are scholarships for socially endangered students. The same way you meet the ministry's criminal application for not using, or suspending, the projects of the scientific centres of excellence for which it was planned, i.e. the assumptions for the withdrawal of 50m euros from the EU funds were created. For some reason, it was stopped and the leaders of these universities who were supposed to be scientific centres of excellence had no other choice but to press charges against the minister’s resolute assistant. Equally, you will likely meet with more financial backlogs of unpaid services for 450 experts who have worked for a year and a half on full and curricular reform. You will find the unused 50m euros for the professional training of teachers where we are actually what was left to Minister Shustar is three-quarters of the completed project, that one quarter is not finished, we do not know for what reason. Please here on behalf of all teachers, teachers, professional associates that as soon as possible you step down. And you will also find one block on the withdrawal of 80m euros in funds for vocational education and training because the plan for the development of vocational training, vocational education and training that has been made and which has received a green resource from the European Commission for some reason has not been confirmed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and this stops us from actually withdrawing any funds for this extremely important system of Croatian education. Likewise, I hope that you will not follow the criteria led by Minister Shustar when he appointed members of the administrative councils of certain universities where he appointed the sisters of former mayors, then the presidents of the municipal societies of purity to lead such significant higher education institutions. And I believe that you will continue two projects that are almost finished and that is licensing, creating assumptions for quality assurance, licensing teachers, teachers, professional associates, but on the other hand, and licensing directors. I am sorry, as well as my colleagues Jovanovic, that in this important document of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, there is no key national document to be used for the development of a system of education, science and technology, which is a strategy of science, education and technology, although here on the educational site, it is not numbered on the site, says the government will implement a reform of education in line with best European practice. See? The strategy of science, education and technology adopted in the Croatian Parliament is a document that has received excellent assessments of the European Commission, it is fully in line with good examples of European practice but there is one Croatian I will say the cultural educational identity which, of course, allows us, as an EU member, to create this part of our system to our extent. I'm glad to see you've expressed your public desire to continue the full curricula reform. I believe those 450 experts who have dedicatedly worked on this project from our chambers, the people who live in that system, who know what is best for its changes. I believe it won't be long before you ask them to cooperate again and give them a chance to participate in the completion of the projects they started. I think it would be a good and strong message at the beginning of your term. I think that this programme of the Government should still have yet to include another item, which can be found on page 18 of the HDZ programme of credibility with which you went to the citizens' trust and eventually got the citizens' trust to manage Croatia for the next 4 years, which is to improve the material and social status of teachers and teachers. I don't know why this part that was very clearly highlighted in the HDZ authentication programme didn't find its place in the Government of the Republic of Croatia's programme. I don't think there's any progress and there's no improvement in the education system unless we invest in the holders of the same system, which is our teachers, teachers and professional associates. In the end, I would like to tell this government that I hope they will trust educational workers, experts, their knowledge of honesty and commitment to contribute and engage them in processes concerning themselves. I believe they will be given the freedom to work without pressure, without intervention, without censorship. I believe that this Croatian Parliament will get the strength and bring resolutions on education as a strategic national interest that will commit all future governments and, among other things, by representatives of 40,000 citizens who have said they want changes in the education system now and immediately. And I hope honestly that this government of the Republic of Croatia will protect education from political and interest sabotage and that the social and development interest of the Republic of Croatia will put above the political, partial or personal interests of individual groups. In this I wish you good luck and you will have the support of the opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1262	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Representative Sabina Vosovac. We have two replicas for your discussion. First of all, the distinguished colleague, Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1263	My colleague Glasovac, you noticed just like my colleague Jovanovic that in the proposal for a programme or programme of the government that presented the mandater, there is no mention of the National Strategy for Education, Science and Technology. However, I would like to warn and wish that the vice-president of the future government and the economy minister and future tourism minister should hear this in particular, so that at least two other extremely important strategic documents are not mentioned in this programme. In less than a year, an Industrial Strategy has started to deliver results, which is in force and which we strongly recommend that it be strengthened. And the second document is the Strategy for the Development of Croatian Tourism. A document that is a complete fruit of our own mind and experience, a document that has been worked by several hundred people in the coordination of the Institute of Tourism in Zagreb. This is the most valuable analysis of the state of Croatian tourism in its history which, of course, carries a single action plan which may need to be corrected but I am convinced that my colleague, Gary Cappelli, who was also president of the Croatian Parliament's Tourism Committee, has not only the objectives of this strategy but also all those directions that have been drawn and which, unfortunately, are not mentioned in this programme in the example of the entire Government programme. When we talk about tourism, no continental tourism has been mentioned. It generates only about 4.5% of total turnover and income at this time but it is a huge good will. If the Government together makes key steps in regional development and agriculture, it can be significantly increased if it does not triple. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1264	I thank you for the replica of my esteemed colleague, Richembergh. The reply to the replica, dear colleague of the Voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1265	Otherwise, I am not paranoid, but I hope that the reason for the lack of guidance of the Education, Science and Technology Strategy in the proposal of the Government of Croatia programme is not the intention, and something that would be said by the charter, the story. I hope that it will remain all in the story, that it will be accessible to review the course of the national key document, which paths the development of the Croatian education system over a long period of time. This would be absolutely devastating for the Republic of Croatia especially because this strategy... the conditions for withdrawing as much as 450m euros available to us through two operational programmes for use... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] to invest in education, science and technology. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Any intervention in this document would seriously endanger the withdrawal of funds that we unfortunately do not have in our budget and we will not find a way to compensate for what we might possibly lose.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1266	I thank you for your reply to the replica of the esteemed colleague of the Voice. Next came the replica by the distinguished colleague of the Croatian Parliament, academics Mr. Željko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1267	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Glasovac, I'm glad you didn't just repeat that claim you said earlier, which was that the dissipated commission that was doing the curriculous reform was. That's not true. You know this well that this is not true, but that the president of the commission resigned and refused to accept that with the existing members of the commission, several other experts are working to continue the curricula reform. So I'm glad you didn't do it again, because maybe there'd be an unpleasant feeling if something terrible had happened, that people were distracted, and that's just not the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1268	I'd like to thank you for your rep to my esteemed colleague, Vice President Reiner. Replicate response, distinguished colleague of MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1269	Thank you very much. It's a good thing you reminded me. An expert task force headed by Dr. Jokic stepped down for the reasons that they were ignored for five months, which was obstructed by the ministry, which did not want to create any preconditions for them to meet their commitments through the action plan. People were not paid, there was no clear indication when going into experimental implementation. Key things, basics for the functioning of the expert task force are not secured. And I stand by when I say that they were starved, that they would eventually euthanize them. When we talk about 450 people working groups who were actually doing a substantive reform of these people did not even thank them, no one came to them. Moreover, in the end, the state remained in debt to these people and allowed people to co-finance a project that is crucial, I will say one of the most important reforms for the Republic of Croatia, which not only remained a dead letter on paper, but after the adoption of the Strategy of Education, Science and Technology, immediately started making it. Was she as perfect as the idea probably wasn't. But instead of going to fix it, to have something in the root cut and in this way to treat people who were first given the opportunity to participate in such an important project, not to be told with all due respect by scientists what should be changed in schools for the first time by people in practice, the chambers were the holders with the support of scientists chosen in the public competition not by political decrees. They dared to change the system and eventually the state returned it to them. That's what I was talking about, and that's what I stand for.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1270	I thank the esteemed Voicer for his reply to the replica. Since we have exhausted the replicas following this debate, the following has appeared for an individual debate, a distinguished colleague, Darko Paric, has appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1271	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I'm going to say that it's a little odd for someone on this left side of the assembly to commend some of the things in this government's program, because I think they should be commended. In the programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, what I really think is well-recognized and that should be done in the right way is the fact, a sentence in basic starting points that says that the Government will work on building a functional and accessible public administration and further informing. Furthermore, in the fundamental objectives as one of the five basic pillars that the Government foresees is a third pillar, that the government will take measures to increase the efficiency of institutions, including simplifying rules and speeding up the work of administrations and courts, i.e. digitalisation of all processes, e-services, linking all state administration bodies to ensure that citizens get a quick and quality service. It will focus on the government's actions and everything else that goes with it. In one word, the government is obliged to work because a lot of strong and radical information on the state's digitisation of whatever you want to call it. However, the information is honestly said I have a lot of experience with this one very specific plant and a slightly unusual thing in the state administration and the state apparatus. Many of the things that are done in the state and the state apparatus are quite vertical. Let's just say it in one ministry, and they're easy to work out, co-ordinate in the ministry. What's a 90% problem or a majority problem or even all the information is never vertical. Everything is vertical and everything is horizontal. And all these processes, all these projects, or whatever you want to call reforms, whatever they're lying on information, are being dragged through a series of different ministries. And in order for any of this to be done, it is very important that there is a person who is politically high and politically strong enough to stand behind it all, to coordinate it all. One proof that information just now is horizontal is also this program. Because in the objectives set out in this programme as the main ones that need to be dealt with as the basis for doing the exact information, I went to count it that way. Quick obtaining permission, solutions with as little administrative barriers, clean information. Arranged ownership relations, a modern system of education and education, more investment in research and development. Research and development, clean information. Easier use of public services to citizens and entrepreneurs in the tourism and catering sector. Developed broadband infrastructure of the new generation, industrial development, especially ICT industry, efficiently developed and regulated labour market. Then building effective public administration, informing public services, reorganising and modernising faster justice and legal certainty, effective fight against corruption, further development of public procurement systems and preventing corruption in the public procurement system, digitisation of public administration. Fast Internet in every household until 2020. Simplification of EU procedures and standardisation of procedures, introduction of e-project applications and reporting. Not to go further, at the end of the last, effective system of homeland security. And there's information. Security of information and cybersecurity. What I'm trying to say is that in the entire government program he's prodigal, he's absolutely full of that information. And if indeed the Prime Minister, the Vice-Presidents of the Government and all the ministers don't rightly stand behind this information and all these procedures in a way that really pushes and chases everyone and that happens through all the ministries, I'm afraid it's gonna be difficult to get there. And that's exactly why I had the need and to commend this, and at the same time to warn about the importance of all this. All modern countries of Europe and even the world in its development of new digital societies and new digital states have moved far ahead at the moment when the government has become truly aware of the importance of ICT, the importance of information and information and has launched radical development of the whole story. In ICT, there is an interesting proverb in the information industry that says that the error is usually somewhere between the chair and the keyboard. Which clearly implies that the mistake of course is in man. What I really want to say is that at this point in time, the possibility of implementing all these programmes is indeed on only a few people who are at the top of the government, at the prime minister and at the vice-presidents of the government. Because my experience when the government gets caught up and different ministers go along and the ministries become self-responsors and they don't like someone else getting involved in their affairs. And if we're going to do this kind of thing, then they're going to have to start messing with each other in their work on information processes. The other thing, not to be all praise, is that there's one collapsing in the entire government program. Namely, the Ministry of Administration and the Central State Office for Digital Society, if I am not mistaken, have very similar or almost identical powers. The government passed, so the government of Zoran Milanovic made a great move when the former Central State Office for e-Croatia transferred to the Ministry of Administration and in those four years it really did a lot of work on that information. Because for the first time, Croatia was able to see what public administration was doing firsthand and to learn some things there. Where, but at the Department of Administration. There's no better place than that. This government has now recognised one thing that this government has become aware that e-Croatia at the Ministry of Administration has reached some sort of peak and that it was time to leave the Ministry of Administration and start working further and much wider, let's say. However, what I am afraid at this point is that a mild problem or collation is precisely overlapping the powers of the Ministry of Administration and the Central State Office for e-Croatia, because, as I see in the Ministry of Administration, all the powers of former e-Croatia remain, while at the same time the Central State Office for Digital Society has the same powers and others. Such a purely well-intentioned advice whether it is necessary to amend the law in the government or just to work in harmony between the ministry or whatever, but to keep an eye on it and to do something about the fact that future government officials would not come into any kind of conflict which is the task of which. Here's what I'd like to do, basically, and I'd like to get it over with. I would like to wish happiness to the future prime minister and to all of you ministers, ministers, vice-presidents and vice-presidents of the government, and I would really be happy if you would take what I have told you about the information literally as it is and to spend what it says in your program. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1272	I thank my esteemed colleague, Darko Paric, for the debate. The next individual debate was applied for by Honorary colleague Andro Krstulović Opera, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1273	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, I use the opportunity to thank Mr. Darko Paric right at the beginning, and I didn't want to replicate it because I was up to it, because he has now clearly located another point of national consensus offered by the government in this project. In fact, the national consensus is unquestionably needed to launch Croatia, and that in the programme that is being proposed here today, the government would actually function and achieve the well-being in which we all agree here. I have located several points of national consensus in the debates so far, including demographic renewal and the issue of national security. Mr. Paric made it very clear that digitisation is the information of the state administration, and I wanted to talk about it also one of the elements, and I welcome that fact, despite the fact that on the other hand, he encouraged the government to build this national consensus in that segment. We actually see demographic restoration as another bridge to create this necessary national consensus of the entire society, not only in this assembly, because without demographic renewal we can hardly admire this ministry of the future as I call it the Central State Office for the Digitalization of Society. Without the national demographic renewal that we are putting on absolute priority with this reform and this programme of government, I am sure that we will agree and make a synergy effect. I also spoke about national security, and national security was given a new dimension by the appointment of Deputy Prime Minister Krstičević. Croatia has no oil but has other advantages. One of these advantages that we can raise ourselves to is something that we need to keep literally as a drop of water in the palm of our hand is national security that gives all of us the opportunity to develop a quality, peaceful and peaceful society that will develop not only the economy but also the quality system in which all predisposition from this programme here will be achieved. This national defence concept cannot function without excellent cooperation not only of the prime minister and vice-president of the government for national security but also of the interior minister, but also of the second pillar guaranteeing stability, which is co-operation with the president of the Republic. When I talk about this, I must also point out that Croatia, with its achievements, is a stability factor in this part of Europe, and that it will use this very much, and this in this programme is, to establish a very strong European path for BiH and Croats as a constituent people in a neighbouring country in a country that is now going through a very delicate moment. I will also support and invite others to support Plenkovic's government and because of the record principle that he managed to inaugurate in the government for the first time without compromise, which is the principle of metricocracy. When you read the résumés and achievements of the people offered to us for ministers they are just a confirmation of the metricocracy, so merits and results and easily and clearly legible in the previous period. They're a guarantee, and I'm absolutely sure and I'm going to raise my hand completely to each single minister because they've proved their results so far that this program will be fulfilled. This metricocracy, which this House today will accept, must be transferred to lower levels in all the pores of its society. It's only then that we'll do away with the clienteleism of the grandmothers and uncles and everything that created the plugs in the development of our society. The government's big test will be 3.5 years from now, which is when the EU holds the rotating EU presidency, right at the most significant moment for the EU, which is months after the UK's exit from the EU. I am sure that this complex government with the Minister of Foreign Affairs and European Affairs and other ministers will respond in the best possible way with the application of the new programme not only to Croatian but also to European challenges, and I look forward to it. I'm sure the Parliament will provide excellent support in that. I am also personally pleased with the fact that Plenkovic's government has also predicted the establishment of the Central State Sport Office, so-called the so-called State Department. The Sports Ministry will send a very clear and determined message that the Sport Act must be met to the limits exactly as it was written to prevent anyone from exempting themselves from that law. But also that little sports that cheered us up, like my rowing or sailing, are not hostages to the riots gathered around the football league. It will not be possible for the Sinkovic brothers to have a loan to defend world gold two months before the Olympics. It will not happen that Sara Kolak gets her spear with which she hit gold at the Olympics from another gold Sandra Perkovic. This Ministry of Sports, the central office is a very clear and determined message from the next government that it will neither suffer corruption nor transparency in business, not only in the sports sector, but also in other sectors. I look forward to this ministry, and I congratulate Mr. President on this determined measure. The Ministry of Science and Education Mr. Jovanovic and Mrs. Sabina Glasovac will implement a curricular reform in the programme on page 4 and page 11. As much as you try to say that no curriculative reform will be implemented and applied, this government and its people here will very much deny it. I will personally monitor the work and work of the Minister of Culture. With its work and professionalism, it will relax the situation in the Croatian cultural community and create the necessary atmosphere for quality and creative work, precisely that creative industry that has so far been in the shadow of the debate and the politicisation of this tormented and budgeted sector. I will give you my support especially when you pay attention to a shameful situation that has been withdrawn for 22 years by your predecessors who did not have to deal with it in a good way, which is not becoming a permanent position in the Museum of Croatian Archaeological Monuments, the National Museum which interprets the creation of the Croatian state, the creation of Croatian cultural identity and promotion of exactly what we are for and for which we are and for which we boast as a long-standing cultural Croatian people. Also vague and shameful giving up the Croatian-Historical Museum during the Kukuriku Government is one of the challenges in which I will follow you very closely. Croatia cannot interpret its history without two national institutions that must interpret, promote and preserve this history. Croatian national identity is in the hands of your government and your ministry, the Croatian national identity is a much wider concept than the ordinary flossula we have heard for the past few months and the last few years infertile topics that have only burdened the Croatian culture sector. Croatian tourism is at a turning point. With the appointment of Minister Gary Cappellia, the man who proved himself and who introduced himself in Croatia, I took the notion of Croatian cultural tourism to Apoxyomena and gave the paradigm to the development of this tourism which will, contrary to the stychi development of tourism that contaminates and burdens our infrastructure, make the necessary step. Mr. Cappelli, I will very much follow you in this and be sure that your experience must be translated into this program of government that we will accept today along with all of you. And in the end, I am particularly pleased that the Deputy Prime Minister is a man who is also a minister of the administration. This is a guarantee that the administration will speed up, that it will not be effective and that with its local experience it will prove exactly what the prime minister today, Prime Minister Plenkovic said, which is that it is extremely necessary to start right, leave to local communities and counties to solve certain problems and governance at local level in order to actively go into decentralisation, deconcentration of that society. All these people and the metricocracy that I mentioned was the principle, which led Plenkovic to put together this government is a guarantee that the government will be successful, that the great majority that supports this government will be another guarantee for the quality implementation of this programme, but I am also sure of the broad interest of the Croatian public and the citizens who are watching us here. Because the time has finally come for people who will not deal with the flossulas and empty words but who will show their efficiency in their works. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1274	I thank my distinguished colleague, Andri Krstulovic Opari. We have two replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Mr. Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1275	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, you've said in the end well that it is good that we will not deal with empty words and flossules, so I will be direct on one matter that interests me and I'm interested in your position. In your debate, you commended the fact that I can agree that sport is singled out in a special central state office. On page 13 of this program we're talking about sports. But it's just being spoken the way you said you shouldn't talk. I'm interested in your attitude. Do you think it's bad that the program doesn't say anything about whether the Sport Act will finally be implemented and what your position is on whether it should be implemented or changed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1276	I'd like to thank you for your rep to my esteemed colleague, Arsen Bauk. Reply to the replica, distinguished colleague Andro Krstulović Opara. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1277	So it is quite clear that the laws should be implemented, this government will enforce the laws, we will be watchful that this law will be implemented and the mandater has made it very clear and loudly said not only that he will implement the Sport Act but he will improve it, and precisely because there would be situations that you failed to solve when you said you were going to dry up the swamps and other things so you didn't do anything but now you mention here. The lack of mention in this specific programme and in those items. Normally, we'll enforce the law. You don't have to write it in this program, dear colleague Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1278	I would like to thank you for your response and for your rep to my distinguished colleague, Andri Krstulovic Opari. Next, an esteemed colleague, Mr. Miro Bulj, applied for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1279	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You mentioned national security, peaceful society, and of course it's very important. Of course, it's a very important peaceful society. However, national security is something else, national security i.e. It's a national interest not just a peaceful society. So the national interest is to protect our seas, our land, our wealth because we must protect, we must have the head of the government of states, and therefore we should strive to be a statesman as he has been here in the last 15 years, unfortunately, and no one who has only protected national interests has shown up. We don't need someone who listens exclusively to the directive. Unfortunately, even when we entered the European Union, the vast majority of people from... at one point in time and the European Union that we will soon preside or something like that, we need only protection of national interests. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because when we entered the European Union, all parliamentary representatives voted to join the European Union while the people at that time did not know at all what the vote was about, what is waiting for us, what directives and what is it about. So it's purely state-owned and it's also important to treat bankers who can do whatever they want in Croatia and can't do it in their countries of origin. And the CNB has helped them, and here we see today's ruling of the High Administrative Court asking the CNB to stand in the protection of our citizens and our economy. So we need statesmen, we need sport but to respect the law and that every child in every region in the Republic of Croatia has the same conditions for sports, we need state policy. We're sick and tired of embellishing the character and actions of someone, of extorting them. We need steps and indicators in this period, and this should be expected from the opposition and those who will support the protection of purely national interests. And not just through the story and the farces, so at the end of the INA joined the MOL, no one lives like you don't know how. And that's why today we had choices that we didn't really need to have, that we were protecting them properly, and especially national security. I expect this government to behave that way. ... had the election unnecessary, exclusively in the protection of national interests. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1280	I would like to thank my colleague, Representative Mira Bulju, for the replica. Reply to the replica, distinguished colleague Andro Krstulović Opara.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1281	Dear Mr. Bully, I was saying... Commander of General Krstic, who freed Dalmatia, who headed the 4th brigade, is the most positioned general in the Croatian government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I said his appointment was a guarantee, that the concept of national security promoted by this programme would contribute to increasing national security, which is our top priority, which is Croatian oil. And as for your facilities that the Croats did not know what they did when they chose to join the EU, I have to stand up to it and say the EU is in a referendum with Croats and it is clearly and loudly chosen, it is also Croatian national interest. And if you continue to say that the European Union is not our interest then we will have to have a pretty lively discussion between you and me in the next four years. I argue that the concept of Croatian national security and stability guaranteed by the Deputy Prime Minister, the prime minister, the second Deputy Prime Minister of Foreign and European Affairs and the President of the Republic will in any way create a synergy that will make the stable Croatian state a very reliable partner in its EU presidency in early 2020. And thus affirm Croatian values as top Croatian values that will be passed on to the common European family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1282	I thank my esteemed colleague for his reply to the replica. Following an individual debate, the esteemed colleague, Mr Branimir Glavas, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1283	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Prime Minister, I listened to the presentation of the mandate of the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme for the 2016-2020 period. There is no big difference and deviation from the programmes on similar occasions of different mandates. Most of the topics are touched, all the areas of life in Croatia and all the problems in Croatia are touched. These points that are listed in the program do not show how all these will be realised together. But I deeply believe that this way and path will be found after the government is elected and after the conduct of its mandate begins. When I came to the Parliament on Friday, last Friday at the constitutional session I came completely relaxed, unburdened by whether or not I would support the government because I was not part of the ruling majority. The HDZ was not part of the ruling majority in either pre-election time or post-election time, it did not participate in signing support for the prime minister. But when I listened to that first session, the constitutional session and the debates that were being held when considering the legislative proposals that the ruling majority put in the procedure and the day-long debate before the parliament was established, I noticed a newspaper. This paper has indeed been recorded for the first time in the practice of the Croatian Parliament's work in the last 26 years. The mandate, which was given the trust of the President of the Republic and 91 signatures of the Croatian Parliament, followed a thorough, careful course of debate on all the legislative proposals discussed on Friday. It wasn't a practice of boredom. In particular, it was not a practice for the ruling majority to follow closely from these comments, suggestions and proposals coming from the lines of opposition parties, to record and most surprising me immediately and until the debate ended in the form of amendments as an integral part of the legislative proposals to adopt certain suggestions that have been demonstrated during the debate of quality, unburdened whether such suggestions come from the ranks of the ruling majority or from the lines of opposition parties. I have long been in the Croatian Parliament, there are many mandates behind me, I have been in this business for a long time and I can say that this is a positive change that occurred at the time of the Croatian Parliament's constitution, this 9th call and that such a situation has not been recorded in the previous practice of the work of the Croatian Parliament. No matter who acted, either from the left or from the right has always gone by force and by the power of the hands of parliamentary representatives, or by the parliamentary majority, and neither side has respected the opinion of the opposition parties or the various political opinions and suggestions that came or criticisms that came from the lines of opposition. I can tell you that was the moment when I really thought about whether my decision was right. The moment I entered the Croatian Parliament when I was in the constitution not to support the prime minister, i.e. the prime minister and the government he proposes today or should consider it. I've thought about it. I've been thinking from Friday to today, and this morning I've made a definitive decision. As a representative of the HDZ, I will support Prime Minister Plenkovic, Prime Minister Plenkovic and his government and his ministers. Some of the members of the Ministers' Office are soon and I personally know the Ministers, and I believe they are able to deal with the challenge and address the problem of the job by acting on those honorable duties. Some of the candidates for ministers do not know, but I have carefully read their résumés and can say that their résumés are promising, impressive and that thanks to their professional, scientific and working path to this day I have reason to believe that they will meet the task and the challenge they have accepted and there is really no reason not to fully support that government, therefore in general. Especially when I remind myself that ten months or eight months ago, I supported Mr. Oreshkovic as the prime minister of this last government that counts in the last hour, and that there was really no reason to support him at that time. However, I felt that the parliamentary majority that was complex at the time, which had received the support of the President of the Republic to try to draw up the government, not to be set up by the clips, should be supported and given them the chance to consolidate and try to work. So, at the moment I gave them such support, which, whose term of office was infamously completed, and I had no real reason now for my convictions, I believe that support should be given to both the prime minister and this Croatian government, and I will be happy to do so. Mr Plenkovic, I just want to remind you that in the election campaign within the HDZ you had and frequently highlighted the programme for Slavonia and Baranja. I would ask you to translate this programme for Slavonia and Baranja into a more detailed government programme and to give your maximum in the next term, so that most of this programme for Slavonia and Baranja is implemented. I truly wish you success. I want to remind you what you know that Slavonia and Baranja from Ilock to... He's got five counties. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That out of five counties only in Osijek-Baranja County have been in power for the last 11 years of HDSSB and that Osijek-Baranja County is 10th place by some development index, or underdevelopment, and that in the 20th, 19th, 18th and 17th place in HDZ authorities, and that they are currently in continuity for 26 years, and that these 4 counties are precisely the most underdeveloped counties in the Republic of Croatia. So, your party has been in power for 25 years now, sometimes my party has been in part. But I want to point out that you are taking care of it, because as president of the HDZ, you have also taken responsibility for the party, and as prime minister you take responsibility for both the government and you are taking care of yourself and you are doing your best to make sure that the situation in Slavonia and Baranja is stabilised and brought to that level that as much as the situation in Slavonia and Baranja is to be worth the life of every man, Slavonec and Baranja. I am pleased that your programme is based on economic issues, that you have touched the problem of eviction, which is burdened with Slavonia and Baranja, that social policy, social care and concern are priorities in your government's programme and I really want you to really in the time that is ahead of you after this government is voted in and you succeed in most of your and the realization of your government programme and pre-election programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1284	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mr. Glavas. We have two replicas, applications. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Mr. Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1285	Thank you. I would like to tell Mr. Glavas that he can be sure that the situation in Slavonia will not change for the better as long as the government is managed outside, as long as decisions are made outside of our country and as long as the course is unreal. Namely, since the Central Bank is the exchange rate of the euro or kuna compared to the euro is quasi fixed. It means that the kuna is only 10 lips up, down from the euro. Types 7.30 to 7.60 and this course is not realistic and therefore import products are cheaper than domestic ones and therefore total agriculture has failed and therefore the whole country is in debt slavery. That's why it just doesn't exist in these areas of life. And living in the belief that the government, which means what it means to say to a puppet where people from Brussels and Washington are coming to lead us and to run our country. And to expect, or to live in some illusion that these people will do something for Slavons or I don't know people from Spanish or Istrian or Personal it's just out of their minds. Because at the end of the day, if they wanted to do it, they would've already done it. It's not HDZ, it's not HDZ's first term, so now we're going to give them a chance to see maybe something made, etc. Their policy has been tried, tried, already seen many times, and it always leads in one spiral direction down. And these buses of young people leaving not only Slavonia but also Zagreb, even Dalmatia, they will not stop. So, HDZ don't think they'll do anything for these young people because jobs can't get those who aren't alike, jobs can't get those who want to work. There are only rare jobs and loyal members of the party to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1286	I thank you for the replica of my esteemed colleague, Ivan Pernar. Replication response, distinguished colleague Mr. Glavas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1287	Mr. Pernar, I know very well how you say their policy. HDZ policy has been in the past 26 years. So you don't need to teach me about it. I, you weren't at the beginning, I said the moment I listened to the debate and the behavior of the new prime minister on Friday during the debate on those four legislative proposals that I felt that the mandater, unlike his predecessors, was acting in similar situations for the first time in the history of this House, so for 26 years, was acting in a different way. He listens to what the opposition say, what the opposition parties say, suggest, suggest notes and at the same time translates into the amendment of the promoters and proclaims and respects certain suggestions. That hasn't happened yet. That is enough reason for me, this time as an opposition representative, to point out that I am the opposition representative to support the Prime Minister and his proposal for the future composition of the Government, to give him a chance and give him a chance together to make this government work and to start solving problems in this country. Whether there will be results or not will be seen very soon. Let's say I already consider when drawing up the 2017 Budget that these figures in the budget will show which direction and which direction Croatia is heading in 2017 and in the coming years. Then I will again decide how I will act at the moment of adoption of the budget but I stress that whatever I am supporting the Prime Minister to put the government together, I have given it to Oreshkovic and his rickety government who have proved truly rickety in the past 10 months, so I see no reason why I do not now support a new face of Croatian politics that has come out with concrete things, with a changed manner of behaviour and thinking which has not been a practice in this assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1288	I thank my esteemed colleague Branimir Glavas for his reply to the replica. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Mr. Tomislav Sauch, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1289	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I've been following your debate, and I must say I don't share that enthusiasm with this government. with the presentation of ministers like you. It is not all just the prime minister and, in addition, the mandater has responsibility, his biggest responsibility is to choose his team. To me today, one person, a doctor, personally very close to me, asked me to ask how it is possible for this team responsible for Mr Plenkovic to find a place for a person who recently had a hard time slandering her fellow doctors. Mr. Professor. Kujundzic said at a press conference that numerous doctors have titles but behind them is a void. And determined that 50% of doctors don't earn their salary, they can't work or want to work. I find that unacceptable. I think it's hard to be offended by the profession that, in some ways, should be headed right now. which should be managed as resolution minister, Mr. Kujundzic. Also, here's still, now I don't know how much time left to confirm this government, we still don't know exactly what counterpart Maric, who's a government minister without portfolios, is going to do exactly what he's going to do. All we have is speculation from the media. The central office coordination, I don't know, agency. But that's not such a problem for me, I have a much bigger problem with my colleague Kujundzic, who has been so hard to offend his profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1290	I would like to thank you for the replica of my distinguished colleague, Tomislav Sauchi. Replica reply, distinguished colleague Mr Branimir Glavas, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1291	You see, Mr. Sauch, I'm not impressed by the government's composition. First of all, I am focused on the man in charge, on the prime minister, and with full confidence, I will raise my hand for the composition of this government when it is voted. Some people I know personally and absolutely the ones I know I support and deeply, deeply believe that they are up to the task and the challenge that lies ahead of them. Some I don't know. In a critical public opinion, some groups look back on these people these days, but why would I have to go after what the media or individuals are writing as they come forward? I took the résumé of those individuals I don't know, analyzed, and I think they have an impressive résumé really to meet all the conditions, all the assumptions that they're successfully acting on this duty. I truly want them to succeed in that part of the job. And if they don't, there's the future prime minister, so he'll handle these things. As far as Mr. Kujundzic is concerned, which you called by name, I know Mr. Kujundzic in another light, right from Dubrava, from the hospital when I don't know in what 50th day of hunger strike he found himself there, and that's when I met this man. And I think that man can successfully conduct that job that the prime minister entrusted him with. And whether Mr. Kujundzic slandered someone or not that's what the courts will say, not us. So I don't accept that media can condemn a man and accept for granted that Mr. Kujundzic has slandered someone.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1292	I would like to thank you for your reply to the replicated colleague Branimir Glavas. We've exhausted every replica in this debate. The next individual debate was applied for by a distinguished fellow vice president of the Parliament Mr. Academyman Željko Reiner, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1293	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. This programme is a package of measures that are obviously based on scientific on the other side on an experienced basis and are the result of joint efforts and mutual respect for political partners involved in the work of the government. And that's very positive. The programme suggests that the policy and work of the future government over the next 4 years will focus primarily on economic development by setting implementation deadlines aimed at increasing the standard of living of Croatian citizens, developing an overall economy, promoting production and creating jobs. So what is absolutely important for every Croatian citizen today and what is certainly a priority. I, of course, will not deal with such an economic part of the programme, but I would like to say a few words about those parts of the programme that are close to me, which are education, science, research and health. First of all, when we talk about education, it says very clearly in the programme that the government will continue the curricula reform. Again, they too have succumbed to this non-Croatian term, should have been a curriculous reform but well, with the aim of modernising the system of education and education, with a wider social agreement. And that's the key thing in the whole story because we know that the previous curricula reform that was made on it was made by the direct directive of the former prime minister, the president of the SDP who personally appointed his advisor, and then his advisor appointed a working group leader, and so it was hierarchical. So let's not talk like some people around here said we should depolitize it now. So far, it's been highly politicized. That it is necessary to depolitize and that experts should talk about it and they should make a curriculous reform. But this right here is proposed as a result of a wider social agreement, not just one group, not just one ideological approach but a wider social agreement. Another important thing that seems to me to improve education is a model of dual vocational education in which employers become partners with educational institutions and then work together to create programmes. This is actually unusually important because we know that in many sectors today we produce “cadres” that nobody really needs, and in others we lack the frames simply because we have not implemented what is proposed in this programme. When it comes to higher education, I am very pleased to say that the government will establish the final programme financing of higher education institutions because programming funding has been spoken of for years and years. We tried to sell ourselves a few years ago segmentary funding some parts of the program as software funding. Of course, it's not software funding, it's known exactly what software funding is, but I'm glad that the programme funding of institutions here is highlighted and, in particular, which will encourage the development of university and study programmes in... an area where we know how far behind we are, and how much of such experts are needed. In particular, the fact that young experts have been kept in mind and that they intend to improve the programme of scientific recruits and the subsidized very clearly mentioned interest rates to address the housing issue of young researchers and other measures to motivate young scientists to stay in Croatia. According to as general as this document is, and of course the government programme must be general because otherwise it would probably have 500 pages or 700 pages, if we had the implementing documents in it, however, even in such a general document there are very clear things that are priority for Croatian society and I think it should be appreciated. It is also very clear that measures will be taken to increase the allocation for research and development by the end of the term of office, of course, may have been written in a sentence, but clearly seen from the context to 2% of GDP. At this point, it is unfortunately among the lowest in Europe around 0.8% of GDP for research and development. Therefore, the goal is to reach 2% by the end of the term of office, which is approximately close to most European countries similar to us. When we talk about what it says about health care here, then we should also say very clearly that nowhere mentions what was also falsely tried in the pre-election campaign, that public health will be privatized. Of course there's no sign of that here and of course it's not a government program. But what is very important and what I think is a huge step forward is to make it clear that the government will define basic health care for all citizens and so on. A medical basket. Why does it matter? So that it finally ceases with the delusions of the people that health care is free and that everyone in all parts of Croatia has equal availability with all kinds of achievements of world medicine, and we all know that it is not, that it is simply inexecutable. Therefore, we should strive to make as little available to healthcare as possible between certain parts of Croatia. But, of course, in no country in the world, you can't get everything that was discovered yesterday or in Croatia, absolutely certainly, but so far, there's always been some false reality, and here for the first time, it's going to be clear what's key and what's key to social access, and that's that no one can be left without the urgent one, without the one who saves the life of health care just because there's no money. This social approach here is clearly highlighted and guaranteed, but no false promises have been made that unfortunately for years and decades we have listened to. It's very concrete again, though in the general document, that a new children's hospital will be built and a children's institute will be established, which I think is very important because again we are talking about how important child care is and how important demographics are. Now we'll finally have the sector dedicated to it. However, child health care is an integral part of any demographic policy, so it is very good that this is clearly highlighted here. Better working conditions for doctors to strengthen their role in the health system and better working conditions in general, financial conditions for doctors in order to stop the outflow of health care personnel that are very clear, decoded and detailed in this programme are the answer to those remarks that say this is just a general document and that it does not say how it will be done. It's clearly written in a series of places, and it says clearly how it's going to be done. Another key element is, of course, the main problem of Croatian healthcare, which is the financial stabilisation of the health system. Because this is a key problem for Croatian healthcare that is disproportionate between funding on the one hand and economic opportunities and costs and here it is explained how it will be resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1294	I thank my esteemed colleague, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Academyman, Željko Reiner. Let the colleague finish, we won't fail in 10 seconds. We have several replicas on this exhibit. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Mr. Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1295	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's no problem to finish, but my colleague Reiner's got a lot of karst sentences that can take a long time, so we warned. I wanted to replicate one thing, you said at the beginning that the program was set measures. Now, if I were to get a little deep in the program, I don't see a single measure, I see goals, I see a desire to go in some direction, but when, for example, it says tax reform, I don't see what it's going to change, I don't see what time it's going to change, who it's going to cover. So when my program says we're going to have a developmental jump, and that can be one, and two and five percent of economic growth. When the program says we're going to go to agriculture and tourism, and we've been hearing about it for 25 years. Look a little bit, academic Rainer you're a scientist and you know these things well done, this is very generally without any concrete measure. I'd love to, says digitization of all processes, investment in light-water infrastructure, so why didn't someone say we'd have four years faster or five times faster Internet than today? I want to see such measures. This can be written by anyone and trust me every next government can copy paste this document without binding it on anything. And on that side, I'm not happy. I think that could have been done much better, and I think that concrete measures and data in this program should have been included at least some. On the other hand, you called Professor Budak and Mr Jokic and, in a way, indirectly and 50,000 Croatian citizens, our fellow citizens that they were manipulated and that they were de facto seduced by someone with their party decision. Don't underestimate people. People can tell right from wrong and those 50,000 people in Ban Jelačić Square did not go after SDP but for the kind of reform they wanted, as Mr Budak and Mr Jokic did.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1296	I'd like to thank you for your rep to my distinguished colleague, Mr. Gordan Maras. Reply to the replica, dear fellow vice president of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1297	So first of all, I've just pointed out a few concrete things just so that here, on your side, I've heard a lot of stories about how it's very general, etc. And I said that in a document of that magnitude, of course, you can't all go into details, but some details are in there. I pointed out, I just pointed them out so I could show that it's very much what you really want and see some problems and see how they can be solved. And this story, so I didn't mention Professor Budak, nor my colleague Jokic, you mentioned them, I didn't mention anyone, but the story of 50,000 citizens, please, please we're going to go back to the facebook revolution now, and how did it come to be? Well, of course, when you tell citizens through all the media that they should have received better education and some evil government has interrupted them and not given them better education because they're bad, because they don't want reform, because they don't want curricula reform, of course people are unhappy, of course everyone wants their child to have a better education. Well, who's crazy that he doesn't want to, and if you're imputing it to him, of course he'll be unhappy with it. But you and I both know what it was about and how it made those 50 people come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1298	I would like to thank you for your reply to the replica of the esteemed colleague, Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Reiner. Next to the replica, the esteemed colleague, Mr Branimir Bunjac, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1299	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Reiner, your education concerns me more like some ash spilling than real concern. You were now in power for 10 months, and the only result of your care for education was that you drove 50,000 citizens out into the street and now you're just ashamed of it and you're trying to say in some way that you're going to take care of the curricula reform, about education. And tell the truth that for the curricula reform this year, no kuna was foreseen in the budget, so for its making, not even less, for its implementation. Your governments reduce education funds from year to year, or for the ministry, savings in a completely wrong place means right where you should invest, where you should increase your savings, you cut. We are now in a situation where 91% of the education ministry's budget goes to pay, some 3.4% to subsidize student transport, and then we have a situation where for science we allocate 79 million kuna, which is the price of an average scientific project in Europe. For example, the Hungarians gave these 79 million kunas to mark the Siget battle this year. So for only one marking, they spent the entire Croatian amount on science. And among other things, if you want to help the education system, please, and above all, let the mandater solve the problem of public competitions because it is known that schools employ exclusively politically similar staff. At the time of communism, we had a situation that only school principals had to be members of the party and now the janitor or cleaning lady can no longer be hired if she was not involved with politically similar parties. Enter password contests that will be conducted by independent committees and thus help education, the quality will rise by 30%. And also implement this 6% salary increase agreement that should have taken effect 1.3. And you're pretending like it's not there. Here you are calling it an education, and in practice you're doing everything the opposite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1300	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Mr Branimir Bunjc, for the replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1301	Thank you very much. Well, it's hard to answer because so much of what your colleague said, so I'm glad that you agree with the SDP about their objections to it and that you share their opinions obviously then and in other things, you share them. I agree with you, so I was just saying that too little money is given to science and research and that it's a good thing that this programme is increasing. And to plan to increase significantly from the present, I am, I can repeat it if you have not heard from the current 0.8 by the end of the term up to 2%. Developed countries are about 2.5, some Finland almost 3% there for it. Of course we're not Finland, but this is a step in that direction. I don't see what's wrong with that, so that's exactly what I was saying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1302	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Vice President of the Parliament, Mr Reiner, for his reply to the replica. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Mr. Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1303	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd like to say that listening to Mr. Reiner, I get the impression that in 2011, when the facebook protests people didn't go out on the street because they were sick and because they were dissatisfied with HDZ authorities, but because the media told them. That's one crazy thesis. Because I just don't know if you remember that time, I was his living witness, the condition was a coma and now it's not unfortunately much better. However, on the relationship between your police and your party to me and all selected media inscriptions, I will not go deeper but I will only look back at the curricula reform that you have also mentioned. The educated system in Croatia is a disaster. So when kids come out of high school, they don't understand the process of making money at all, they don't know that money can only be created by private banks, that all money as a loan is created and that money for its return doesn't exist, because the money for the interest to be returned to that loan is never paid. Which will say that the HDZ government in general did not foresee education on this issue in its curricular reform. And the question of money is Mr. Reiner's most important question. Maybe it's not because you have money, but for those who don't have money, it's very important that they know how money is created, why it's gone, why everyone's in credit, whether it's a coincidence or maybe it's part of a bigger story, a conspiracy that you and your colleague have been actively involved in since 1994 when you turned the CNB into a currency exchange. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1304	I thank you for the replica of my colleague, Mr. Ivan Pernar. You're the one who picked up the flag? So you're giving up on the Rules of Procedure's injury. Be so careful, and when it comes to your colleague Bunjac, he skipped 24 seconds but let's let everyone finish thinking so we won't interrupt. Thank you very much. Next up for the replica,...... And if you'll excuse me, the reply to the replica of Mr. Rainer's esteemed colleague, Mr. Reiner. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1305	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I don't understand what you're talking about. First you said that I said that the media produced facebook protests that I didn't say at all. I didn't say a word to the media. The second you said HDZ made a curriculous reform, so let's make a deal with your colleagues from the SDP who made that curricula, repeat the curicula, not the curical one. Let's make a deal, so you think alike so let's at least make a deal, if HDZ did it, then it's very good or very bad, or SDP did it, so it's very good, very bad again. But unfortunately for you, obviously things are not clear at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1306	I would like to thank you for your reply to the replica of the esteemed colleague, Vice President Reiner. The next call came a distinguished colleague of the representative, Mrs Sabina Glasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1307	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I have to react to my colleague Reiner for the sake of truth. This Croatian Parliament adopted the Science and Education and Technology Strategy without any votes against on November 17th 2014. At least the Croatian government could have done, it was obliged to do so to respect such an important national document brought by this highest House. As a consequence, as recorded in the Strategy, the Government of the Republic of Croatia appointed a special decision three days after the adoption of the Strategy a special expert commission for the implementation of the Education and Coordination Strategy and action in the field of education and science at the Office of the Government of the Republic of Croatia headed by Professor Budak in line with the Strategy. Second. The Committee for the Monitoring of Implementation of the Strategy, with the technical support of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, has also chosen members of the expert working group headed by colleagues, i.e. Mr Jokic. So it's not right, it's not polite, it's not fair to plant in this assembly that these people are politically appointed, they're appointed exactly the way they've established this House of Commons. And secondly, I will dare say, never in the history of the independent Republic of Croatia has it happened on such a document as the Science, Education and Technology Strategy for 120 experts who absolutely no one has asked for political or personal worldview, and believe me, there have been experts from different worlds as well as members of the expert working group and expert working groups no one has asked which religious community they belong to, which are political, world-wide commitments.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1308	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague for representing Mrs Sabini Vosovac on the line. The reply to the replica, dear fellow Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Academyman, Željko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1309	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, distinguished fellow Voter, you're denying yourself. So at the time I say it again, I didn't mention it at all, you mention it all the time. Professor Budak was your party president's personal advisor, the prime minister. ... And it's not personal, it's a counselor. [[You can't hear it.]] That's a dramatic difference, yes. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. So, totally. Nothing to do with politics, so he wasn't just his advisor. [[Intruding Brkic: Please allow a colleague to finish.]] So that's one thing. And the second thing, while we are already holding on to this Strategy, I will now repeat the Strategy in the article in point 2.1 clearly says that the working group that has drawn up the proposal cannot evaluate the comments that have come to the curricula on its own. And what's done? On the contrary. It also shows that there was no respect for the Strategy with which they are constantly waving and trying to divinate the Strategy as the only thing to follow. If the Strategy follows, then everything will be fantastic. Of course, like all other strategies, if you defuse them, if you take anything else by strategy, you can go the wrong way and that's what happened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1310	I'm relying on the reply to the replica of my distinguished colleague, Vice President of the Parliament, to Mr. Academyman, Željko Reiner. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Professor Branko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1311	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Reiner. I have to trace this Maras, so fellow Maras notes that the document really doesn't have to be 500 pages, but some things had to be more precise. You're looking here at point 9.3 of the pensioner's position. So one of the biggest problems in the country at all means over a million of our people whose average pension is below 35% of the average salary or somewhere. So you have literally 7 lines about it, and there's no telling what's going to be done specifically to change that situation. One option we heard in the campaign was that one percentage point from the solidarity pillar would be transferred from the budget to another pension column. You know what it is – spilling from hollow to empty. And worse than that. Why? Because you're going to have to return those billions and a half of kunas you transfer from your pension fund budget to your system to finance the pension system deficit. That's what this is about. So you had to explain what you were up to. It's another thing, but it's completely collegiate and well-intentioned. In the second paragraph, therefore, the remaining three lines say that pensions will grow 5% over the next four years. So, I also want to warn my colleague, Coric, in the worst crisis in our term of office, four years of pensions have increased 4.8%. If we project an economic growth of 2 and a half you say 5% in the last year of the mandate, then you know it's over 12% growth in four years. Therefore, pensions must certainly grow between 8 and 10% in this period. It's a debt to the pensioners, it's something that's real and I'm asking you to correct this to the well-being of the pensioners first of all, but also to reflect the reality of our situation at this point and some expectations that we have for the next four years. This is too small.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1312	I would like to thank my rep to my esteemed colleague, Professor Branko Grcic. The reply to the replica, dear fellow Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Academyman, Željko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1313	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Greek, you say this is too small. If we wrote over 5% or 7%, you'd say it's unrealistic and it's too much. You'd always say it was wrong. So when we're trying to be realistic, when we're trying to be realistic and consistent with the economic situation that it is now, and as we hope it will improve, then of course it will grow, then you're suggesting it's not good. Well, in the end, it's up to you to make up your mind. I'm happier with modest promises that will come true or perhaps overcome, than with the promises that we remember in the previous elections your government made about opening 80,000 jobs, about what stories that all went wrong is about raising GDP, about not knowing this, about that. In the end, it turned out to be completely different. Therefore, it is better to be modest and make it come true than to promise too much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1314	I would like to thank you for your response to the replica of the distinguished colleague, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Academyman Željko Reiner. We've exhausted the replicas for this debate. The next individual debate was applied for by a distinguished fellow representative of Gordan Maras, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1315	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In order to accept as Mr Branko Bačić cried out today, all of us here in the Croatian Parliament, all 152 MPs, or 151 MPs, of this programme and supported the Government, should meet certain preconditions. For me, it's primarily that the program is what I accept and support. Secondly, I believe the team is competent and able to implement that program. And third, I believe it will all come true. For me, Mr. Reiner, at this point on the first point here you are now leaving, but I wanted to elaborate a little bit, given that you've said certain things, it's controversial what it says in this program. So, if in this debate now, Mr. Greek and you say that the data is 5% it might be one of three, four exact figures in the entire program in all of these 50 and some pages. Everything else is principled, everything else doesn't say anything but that it's something we'd want and what anyone would want. Promote a business environment, says better business conditions and lower administrative costs. Come on, what is it? Who doesn't want to. Arranged ownership relations, quick obtaining permits, strengthening entrepreneurship. Look, this program let no one get angry with the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the team that comes into position must not afford such a document. This isn't a seminar work in the first year of any college that I don't speak now because it covers a lot of areas. Students are much, much better prepared for their seminar work and their work programmes and what they would like than the Government of the Republic of Croatia has now done. And here's what needs to be said openly. There's a lot of principle stuff everybody here would sign. On the other hand, what's changed over the past eight months? Someone said they were different actors today. We have exactly the same government. We have as well come to my heart here while Mr. Glavas talked about how polite it is that he will be forced to trust the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Look, I like politeness and it's a nice feature and I'm glad the Prime Minister is sitting and listening, that's great. But that can't be enough. Really, Mr. Glavas is asking for a little bit, but I still need something more. Or Mr. Kosor, who said Mr. Plenkovic raised the level of dialogue in Croatia and therefore supported it. Well, it won't make our people live any better, Mr. Kosor. Something needs to be classified, something needs to be shown, something needs to be accomplished. On that side, even though I say I appreciate certain characteristics shown by the future prime minister, I think that one last doesn't make spring, even if it comes down from the north to the south from Brussels, but it still needs a stronger team, a little more ownership to make something happen. And a lot hasn't changed in the last eight months, and I'm sure it won't change in the next four years. Especially since the situation in the coalition is very tight. We have now won in the HDZ and MOST coalition a party that privatises that they are the ones who protect national interests. Be careful, I did not show up until Mr. Bulj probably no one in Croatia did. So I guess he's the only one invited to this assembly meeting that takes care of national interests. The story of the INA, as if it were his personal right and he's Robin Hood of the INA. Look, Mr. Bulj, I don't know if you followed in 2010 I initiated an investigation committee about INA and Mr. Sanader in part and because of this investigation committee he was responsible for some of the things he did. And I say that mistrust, that exclusiveness for the protection of national interests, that only honesty in the Most will be a terrible burden for the coalition. So what do you think energy is wanted for this patriotism, for honesty? Well, it's all a matter of sphere of interest who's going to have a greater impact. Maybe Mr. Bully doesn't even know about these things. He may honestly feel it in his heart, but believe me, there are behind those who know well what energy means in the vault that controls MOST. That is why I do not believe that the government will be effective for the next 4 years, no matter how hard Mr Plenkovic has tried and how hard part of the people in the Government of the Republic of Croatia have tried because there will be problems. We have a quick local election coming up, coalition colleagues explaining that they are not basically HDZ because they are afraid HDZ will squeeze them. They think they will have to point out especially now for the next 6 months to their voters in the local environments as much as they actually hold on to the HDZ sigh. Such a prospect of work promises nothing good. And one more thing, when you change the government that de facto remains the same HDZ and MOST in general, it may be important for me at the show level whether it is this or that minister in there and whether Mr Plenkovic will set himself up one way or another towards those who unjustly expect them to put together who will be in the Croatian Government. But Mr. Plenkovic must be aware that he too has been compromiserically going into this whole story, regardless of Mr. Hasanbegovic's absence. We see today, here comes Mr. Maric, that on the halls de facto he is talking about what he will be responsible for, that Mr. Plenkovic from the pay phone, look out for me today we get the government, he tells Mr. Maric from the pay phone that he is expected to form what he will do and what he will call it. It is likely that a new ministry will be formed now that will deal with property or something to gain space for one I mean a quality man like Mr. Maric. But that's all I'd say wrong assumptions because you can see that walking is trying to smooth out some things that are wrong. So because of these three preconditions, I don't believe this program is the best thing that can be done, or that all people are on the team, and we haven't heard it today. I am sorry that there is no future prime minister here, to really answer us, it is very important to me personally whether or not the minister in the government will reach for income he has no right to, whether or not it was 150 kuna. It's a matter of principle, it's a matter of person and morals. If we all know how the officers in Croatia work and what they're entitled to, we've all done this job, if you don't have the right to the living room, you don't have the right to the living room, if you don't get caught 28 times, they'll do it the 29th time they catch you, you have to answer for it, whether 150 kuna, 1,500 or 50 thousand kuna. I demand that Mr. Prime Minister tell us, is it acceptable for him, first of all, to apologize, is it true that Mr. Barisic was in this situation? If it's not true, I apologize here, but it's full today all the media. I think it deserved a comment and an explanation here. If that were true, such a person, under that assumption, would not deserve, in my opinion, and I believe, in the opinion of the majority of the MPs in this House, to be minister in the Croatian Government. All these answers we want to hear here and we want to hear from the prime minister so that we can vote in the best way possible or in order to earn our trust. He realizes at the end of what Mr. Rainer said, you wouldn't accept anything like this, so we don't have to give a program or answers. I think it's underestimating Croatian voters and Croatian citizens who are watching us today. And on that side, here's my time, not to break ten minutes, I won't support the government, and in the House we'll be very harsh opposition, we'll try and believe the laws we'll be preparing will not be two sentences like those laws we've seen in the past few days.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1316	I'd like to thank Agent Maras. The first representative to report for the replica is representative Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1317	Dear Mr. Maras, I listened to your exposure carefully and I can say that I liked the thought you said at the beginning, which is that, in order for us to support this government too, we should primarily support her program, then as you said, believe that she would do it and eventually have people who could implement it. And I want to say that I fully agree with your finding that this government's programme has been missed, that it is not really aimed at improving the majority of our country's citizens, but it is about continuing to satisfy the interests of a narrow few at the top of the pyramid of power and that our citizens will continue to be just numbers as their Minister Shuker has turned us all into numbers through the OIB and in fact only one amorphous mass from which they intend to drain life and money for the next four years. And I'm just saying that like you, I can't support this government for that reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1318	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1319	Thank you very much, Mr. Pernar. My intensity was to show that today in Croatia everything comes down to the current perception. Whether MOST controls HDZ so whether it will win two or three percent more in the election, whether Mr Plenkovic is decent or not, is at this point even irrelevant to people here what it says in this programme. So it doesn't matter if Mr. Rainer writes something of quality or not because he says the opposition won't support it anyway, it doesn't matter what you write. So on that side we have to work to make people hear and understand, I'd like everyone to see in Croatia and I'll do it again and I'm not ashamed of it, this isn't at the level, so I'm going to bring it down, and here's my teacher and my colleague Grumoja from MOST, so this is high school, this is so written. And I wish it wasn't because this is my government's program, as of today, my government. I wish it was more systematic, so it could be shown that people can build presentations out of it. Why would that be forgotten today? Tomorrow, some college students might want to print this program and make a presentation. Well, isn't it a shame that we don't have a better program to teach young people something from it? This is holding water until the masters leave, only valid for today. No one will remember that tomorrow. No one's going to quote this program because there's nothing de facto about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1320	I'd like to thank Agent Maras. The next person to answer the line is representative Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1321	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Maras, you said that in this program everything is general and all principled nature, and in that part I agree with you and that's true. But some things can be said both in principle and in general. So now it would be possible to list all of this, you've highlighted a few examples, but let's say what I do, what I'm particularly interested in is, for example. Sports. I think it's a good thing that sport is separated from the Ministry of Science and Education and that an independent office is established, but let's say there's not one general sentence that I expected from Mr. Plenkovic in there, which is that there will be a depoliticisation of sports. And let's say this general sentence would show one direction in which this government would go and my opinion is that it's not there because the spirit of this government is the same as the HDZ as in recent years. Because we have burning problems in Croatian sports today, we have a situation that is on the escalating of the conflict when sports workers are attacked by catering facilities, when we have a Croatian Football Federation which is the establishment of HDZ because there are 11 members of the executive board who are members of that party and it is normal that HDZ and this government does not want to be accounted for, that it does not want to solve it. And these are the problems to be worked on, but there are also little things that point to which direction this government is going. I am sorry that there was no strength and courage to deal with this and we are looking at the last three days that before the presentation and announcements of the formation of this government, let's say the Croatian Football Federation has paid ads in newspapers in which it raises praise to this government and welcomes their solutions in sport. And I must say that here I fear it, that I am afraid of those solutions that this government will implement and that it will only continue to escalate and privatise Croatian football by one family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1322	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1323	Thank you very much, Mr. Djujic. I think that the problem of Croatian sport and football will solve some other countries, help us solve some other countries in view of the previous investigations that have been conducted now. And you believe me, these 11 people on the HDZ Executive Board, the HNS, I'm sorry, but as HDZ, I said, the same thing because most people there are HDZ, HNS=HDZ, not the Croatian Football Federation=HDZ and they won't solve it until they get rid of it themselves because of their lack of interest, no help, no tickets to the world championship, charters and everything that Mr. Mamic has been doing very well and closely with many officials around the county, cities, etc., who, in most cases, are members of HDZ. And there's a lot of general stuff, but here's what I'm looking at now is culture and I'm looking at representative Jasen Mesic who did one great thing in 2009 or '10. When he was Minister of HAVC, it means Croatian Audiovisual Centre. It is, but you have made a step, here I congratulate you on it, HAVC is the child of the then minister and everything that has come out of it can be partly praised and Mr Mesic. So on that side of the good thing, maybe some of these proposals should have been classified and now let's see what happens in culture in the future and not just the promotion of culture, so everybody wants it, the promotion of employment in the culture sector, come on, the development of cultural infrastructure and the restoration of cultural heritage. Well, that's what 25 years of people do, it's what every government has the same program in this logic. .../Intruder President: thank you. Thank you, Agent Maras. But congratulations, Mr. Mesic, great job with HAVC.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1324	Thank you. The next person to report for the replica is representative Darinko Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1325	Dear Representative Maras, I see that you are concerned about my discussion, that you are concerned that the future Prime Minister has said that he wants to be the Prime Minister of all citizens. You probably want to keep dividing me or them. I see you're worried that he said he'd adopt good proposals to the opposition and what he'd already done at one of the previous sessions and you still don't like it because you didn't do it. I see that you regret and that you are concerned and that in this highest House you will no longer discuss Ustashas and Partisans because that is where you received votes in the elections. It was your main, so yes, that's how, in that conflict, you got votes in that conflict because you didn't do anything else seriously. I see you're worried that the future government and the Prime Minister would have to implement economic reforms that you haven't implemented in four years. I see you are concerned that this government has announced a tax reduction that you have raised to the citizens and, above all, to the entrepreneurs of the Republic of Croatia. And I see you're seriously concerned that you and your colleagues are going to continue educational and curricula reform because that's where you thought you'd point but you won't because we're going to continue there. And we will continue with most of the working group who are willing to cooperate on the continuation of this reform. So here's when you're so worried you have at least the next eight years to be worried. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1326	Thank you. The answer to the replica, but I would really like to ask if you can wait and hear the answer as soon as the spokesman for the word appears. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1327	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't know what you thought I was worried about, is it, by face, a ton of voice, by sobbing? What makes you think that, by your hair? What made you think I was worried? You know what I am, I'm only worried about you, how little you need. You're very, very, very demanding, everyone would want such a coalition partner, you need very little. It's almost nothing. Don't ask for anything to lift your hand. So, I'm only concerned about you, I'm not a problem and I'm glad to say again, I'm glad when someone who performs a public duty is correct, when he wants to hear it, it's normal, from a cop on the road to a Prime Minister or a president of the state, unfortunately the president of the state quite often doesn't stick to that oscillator, she'd rather take a break from someone who comes out of her work, but it's so sad. It's hard to resist sometimes. On the other hand, I'm not worried about it, I'm worried that one authority doesn't do spring, I'm worried about what that decency and systematicity hasn't become into the program, it's my concern. And if you've heard about it, I've been talking about it. I hope that this kind of treatment will continue and in the future, but if there is no program, then we just have the courtesy to talk to each other, dear sir, and so on. But what's in it for our citizens? Our citizens are looking for results, our citizens are looking to live better. So the decency is good, one school when the other goes away, obviously especially in HDZ that's how it works, a rotation is done as on the hockey team, but what I'd like those players to play the job they're here for. That it's written in the program and that this program is being realized.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1328	Thank you. The next representative to report for the replica is MP Zeljko Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1329	My dear colleague, I would only ask one question, which cabal was in power when by 2013 it was 7 years apart on research... Exhausted from Croatia to $34 billion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What program was that, where was the money, how much was school and hospital? As far as HAVC is concerned, you have respected MPs now published on, these are open sources of information, and the Ministry of Culture has now announced you have 30 foreign thieving in HAVC and 30 more of our lumen theatres and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1330	I'd like to thank the representative. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1331	Mr. Glasnović, obviously Agitro did not do the job this time and gave you that information but during the privatisation of the 90s on the hair in Croatia was HDZ. Well, that was until 2013, in the 90's it means 1990 to 2010. 10 years of HDZ authorities, then 4 years of SDPs and then 8 years of HDZ again. It means of those 20 years that you mention 16 years of HDZ and 4 years of SDP. Now, since you're probably a good mathematician because I see you know how to add this especially in HAVC you showed, it's from 20 years, 16 is 20% of SDP's power, 80% of HDZ. So you're a smart man, then you'll figure out whose responsibility this is for everything you're saying. I don't know if you've been in HDZ until recently or what party you've been to? If you've been to HDZ, that's your responsibility, if you've been to HDZ? But I don't know if you've been to HDZ, you'll answer that later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1332	Thank you. The representative who also reported for the replica is MP Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1333	Thank you very much. Mr. Maras, your exclusive right isn't to say who should defend us from our national interests, or not, but it's constitutionally prescribed. So we're all bound to protect our national interests. Of course you have the right to disagree with the program, to agree on it, and I won't replicate it at all because of that, of course, you won't even agree, do you, by order? You have a click one when you're in opposition, then you attack the program, when you're in power, of course you're defending it. And it's your right and you're right, of course. However, in the protection of national interests, we can also discuss this, so do you remember the white nights? In 2012 white nights, oil fields had more profits than INA and MOL combined. They're free. If the white nights had stayed in Croatian hands today would not have been such a deficit, today there would be no such problem with the budget for sure. At the same time, it was necessary to protect national interests and, of course, I am not taking that right away from you and of course you cannot defend it for me to point out that protection of national interests is very important where MOST of course has shown itself in the protection of national interests. That's what you witnessed, you'll admit it in the hallway, but of course you won't here, here's the theater, it's your right. It's your right to remain silent if the Adriatic is drilling, in research. Do you know whose results are? Here's a question for you who owns the Adriatic survey results? That's when you were in power. And the risk of ecological disaster was in Croatian hands. And maybe you didn't even miss or make a mistake about HNS insults and the People's Newspaper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1334	Your Honor, Agent Time. Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1335	I'm not defending you, Mr. Bull, but you're setting yourself up so that your exclusive right to study HDZ is more honest and to defend national interests because until you entered the Parliament, no one was worried about it. That's how you set things up. That's what I'm telling you. That's the problem. Here and nod your head now, true. But it's not like that, but it's not like that. You can't nod, so it's absolutely allowed. And the white nights that I say again, I don't know who sold the white nights but I know that back then the HDZ was also in power. So on that side, Mr. Bull, I'm the most afraid of people who know everything. He knows all about HRT, knows all about the performances, knows all about HEP, what he doesn't know about. So give us some knowledge, teach us. Whoever said 150 kunas today are instructions, I will pay and 200 to teach me to be so smart. Here we go. Here we go. So on the other hand, here's a colleague of Vrdoljak telling me here that he owns the research of the Republic of Croatia. So don't mess with things like we saw around HRT the other day or today like you say they're Croatian citizens, or Croats are minorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Not a minority in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's a constitutive nation. So don't talk about things and don't do plays about something you're not home in. It takes a while for you guys to get all fucked up, but don't try to make the impression that you know everything. That's all I ask.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1336	Thank you, Agent Maras, for your reply to the replica. The next of the parliamentary deputies to report for individual participation in the debate is representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1337	Thank you very much, dear President, colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I would like to congratulate all future ministers, vice-presidents of the government at the head with our president. Well, there's been a lot of talk today about the government program, but I'm sorry that maybe the public will get the impression that some things aren't standing there, they're not written or they're written somehow, so I'd only point out certain segments. In fact, it has been said that there is not a word, that there is not at all the word "monetary policy" and then it can be read that we have a whole chapter of monetary policy and public finances. We've heard a lot about the fact that there isn't, that this government doesn't care and doesn't think about depoliticalizing public administration, and then exactly when it comes to the segment that's talking about modernising public administration's work, it's going to be depoliticalized, and it's going to be more efficient to manage human resources in the public sector, etc. What I'd like to talk about is basically the fundamental goals this government has. So, economic growth, job creation, demographic restoration and social security and justice. Special attention is given to the private sector as a carrier of economic development. Our entrepreneurs will surely be happy to hear that they consider them the backbone of the economy. When we link it to one full tax reform, we can really expect something. In recent years, tax reforms have been common. In fact, there was almost no quarter where there was no reference to new tax or discharges or to some new tax taxes, and this has already brought great uncertainty to potential investors. We know when it comes to investment that every serious investor will make a study of the justification of investment what it is to do, what it is to make when we don't know what is already waiting for us in the next period. I believe that simplifying the system and a new tax reform that will, of course, provide for certain tax redundancies that will contribute to this particular development. Tax administration as well as any public administration under this programme should become a partner and have a partnership with all our citizens and entrepreneurs either craftsmen or companies. Another important segment that sees potential, and now we have high costs certainly inactive state property. It should primarily serve the development of the economy and these activities in the area of agriculture and tourism. It is these two activities that the new government programme considers to be a generator of growth and economic development. One quality map of investments that would list all such, all such and land and buildings would certainly contribute to accurate knowledge of the facilities that can be activated in due time, which is necessary for them. Whether they have a corresponding and quality infrastructure, within which time limit it can be provided. Furthermore, what about spatial-planning documentation, how much time it takes and how much funding it takes. And all of this could contribute to one serious investor seeing whether or not to go that way at all. In the case of agriculture in this programme, specific measures are planned to protect domestic production. And indeed, it is unfortunate that our farmer's domestic agricultural product is not on the table of our caterer or our hoteler. Special measures should now link farmers to our tourism so that these two branches of the economy are as strong and quality as possible. The government's programme could show that it is planning to go with a reduction in VAT on goods used in agricultural production. When it comes to tourism, the government's programme also goes towards developing certain forms of selective tourism, which means that it would also encourage new innovative content, as well as those related to the development of cultural, sports, health or other forms of tourism. All catering and tourist staff will be especially happy, and today I have not heard from anyone that said the introduction of CRO card. Namely, this is the new Croatian tourist voucher. According to this, the RS entrepreneur who wants to reward his employee could provide him with a certain amount that is exempt from all tax duties and which he could benefit from in any catering, or tourist content in the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, when it comes to education, much has been said, however, the emphasis should be placed on the need for a new reform of education to be better connected to the economy and the labour market. In fact, so far, our young people have been educated either to go across the border or to wait for many years at the Employment Office. They will certainly be happy just about the educational workers, those who have devoted their lives to the education and education of our children, which in this programme stands as a measure and the promotion of excellence and motivation of teachers, teachers and teachers. Also, when it comes to education, it should be stressed that dual vocational education is planned in which employers will become partners of educational institutions. The most valuable Croatian potential has always been people and their values, which together with traditional and spatial features make up the special wealth of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, this government gives special attention to young people and families. I'd just like a few measures I haven't heard them say. In fact, young people would get special loans up to 350,000 kuna to start their own business. The introduction of a new parent’s status for families with 4 and more children is certainly a measure that will especially bring joy to those who are numerous families or perhaps at the border because they will really be able to provide themselves with much. Subsidized should be interest on loans to young families not only those receiving so-called. POS's apartments are already the ones that plan to build families' houses. This will contribute to building such facilities in rural areas. So far, no such measures have helped. And another extremely high quality and good measure is the organisation and establishment of so-called. alimony fund for families with one parent. Those children who do not have quality protection would thus be financed, co-financed and provided certain assistance through this fund. Finally, I am convinced that many of these measures would support our citizens and those who have given you support. And as it is said that this is the number of wonderful desires I believe that both quality program and these beautiful desires, and people who have knowledge and experience can do so, and that the opportunity to give them support and show them what they can and to make this program happen as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1338	Thank you, Your Honor. The replica was first reported by representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1339	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's the lady from HDZ who said she's got a chapter on monetary policy and mentioning it. I have to admit it's true. It's about two sentences that say really terrible things. One of them is that their programme comes down to making it possible to continue to use long-term loans to the currency clause that we are bound to, means for the euro. Although the maker of the euro or his chief architect, Otmar Issing, says it is a failed project and does not believe in it. When I asked Mr. Lovrinovic if you'd like to replicate to Mrs. Pernar, he told her what I was going to replicate, as far as their program is concerned, it's better not to write anything than what it says. It's your program, ma'am, and the only program that was good was from the IFO Institute that proposed to you to also remove the currency clause and weaken the kuna but you obviously forgot it quickly, removed and introduced a new old program that we have had opportunities to watch since 1994.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1340	Thank you, Agent Pernar. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1341	Thank you, colleague Pernar. I'm very glad that my debate encouraged you to read those two sentences, and wait until you see what the new government will do in the field of monetary policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1342	The next rep representative is Skibola.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1343	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Here in the HDZ programme, the main objectives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia are to achieve stable and sustainable economic growth, create new and quality jobs, stop emigration and demographic recovery, social justice and solidarity. Today we saw social justice and solidarity. Where were the MPs today when the family was kicked out of the only home? You've all been sitting here, laughing and waiting for the government to vote while our people are being pushed out of the street. from home to street. Here it writes the Government of the Republic of Croatia will develop a national wealth balance and a National Sustainable Development Strategy defining priorities for long-term survival, development, prosperity and security of the state for the medium and long-term development of Croatia. Whose long-term survival? Long-term survival of HDZ and SDP arrests? Over 50% of young people leave the country because they can't find a job. And the monetary policy programme is the same as that former monetary policy programme, which is a restrictive monetary policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1344	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1345	I still have 15 seconds. I would like to say another Mrs. Dalic I remember when you were Minister and you advocated fiscal consolidation and I know that you will continue to advocate fiscal consolidation but then do not use this economic terminology but simply tell people that it is an increase in taxes, cutting wages, pensions, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1346	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1347	.../later involved./... Parliamentarians were at their jobs for which we were paid. And we didn't even have notice that something like that was going on, you knew it. The question of which regulations are such intended or not? What is passed by law in this House is also implemented and parliamentary representatives must respect the amendments to the legal rules. Furthermore, you're talking about what's going on and you're comparing it with the government program now. We're at the beginning, this government hasn't even been voted yet, you're already honoring them for something that's come to them before. Wait until they and the ministers are appointed and then take certain steps and then you can rightly criticize them.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1348	Thank you. The next representative to report for the replica is MP Željjo Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1349	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lady, you mentioned addressing the issue of agriculture through tourism here, I would ask that the minister takes care that, unfortunately, hotels have been bought by strangers and that it is very difficult for farmers to place their resources through it. I'm telling you from the position of a farmer who works 30 acres of land and produces 250 tons of food. The peasants are scared, today for many years we haven't had a protest of peasants to show their public position. We have the division of peasants to associations, almost every agricultural producer will have their own association because there are fewer producers, more and more associations. There is this tourism connection between agricultural production and tourism seems only to be valid for large producers for major concerts so that I can say that I can place my food in hotels because unfortunately we small producers can't do that. And here mentions the irrigation that the former minister mentioned and thought to solve the issue of agriculture through irrigation. But I'll tell you as a agricultural producer, I don't have a problem with the irrigation system, but it's a problem of water supply that no one will solve so that we can solve our irrigation systems that are not expensive today and for smaller producers, they are very easily available and every almost from the manufacturer can. In this direction, we need to look at a little of the problems that are in agriculture. I would like for agriculture and tourism to really cooperate as we have been talking about connecting green and blue furrows for years, only unfortunately these two scars will not happen to finally have Croatian food on the hotel table to be consumed by strangers, and that what is earned for the Croatian kuna to end up in the Croatian wallet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1350	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1351	A respected colleague, precisely in this programme of government protection of domestic production, home product on our table and everything that can connect agriculture and tourism, protects her from external and large and special attention to family farms, and I believe through various subsidies or reduction of tax duties and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1352	Thanks for the reply to the replica. I'd just ask a little attention again at the moment when colleagues exhibit because a little though you admit you'll have a hard time talking at the moment when the whole assembly talks. The next representative to report for the replica is Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1353	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues, when you spoke about the chapter of education, I would be more pleased to have read in this program that the new government will introduce compulsory high school education, provide transportation to high school students because it is a prerequisite for availability and school attendance. Furthermore, the system complies with the needs of the labour market. Yeah, targeted personnel training. This has been done in the north since 2009, 2010. There are certain experiences. However, what I certainly believe is that I will be given a series of specific clarifications, what confuses me, and together they decide both the programme and the registration quotas. What does that mean? There are a number of things I could refer to, and I thought through an individual discussion. But what I certainly don't think is that I'm not sure how long this government will unfortunately work, based on the experiences of the same government, the same coalition, but I certainly want it to work a lot longer and that all these goals that are set out here to be fulfilled. I also didn't, and I would like to hear Mr. Maric's finance minister, if these goals were to be reduced to a four-year period of financial representation, how much would these goals cost to achieve? Should the budget increase two, three, or how many times? I have to be the plan is ambitious, is it catchable, how real is it? I would like to hear, I hope that we will see the first of some projections how realistic it will be that the objectives are achieved through the budget and through budget projections, and then we will be able to discuss and assess whether the budget will be yes or in any way and how. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1354	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1355	Dear colleague, I agree with everything that you have presented only when it comes to education, I have not mentioned, but exactly stands, the Government will ensure equal availability of kindergartens, school institutions to all etc. which means taking care of the costs of transport as well. As far as compulsory secondary education is concerned, it is certainly the minister, and will be supported by both the Deputy Prime Minister and the Prime Minister himself, because it is really necessary today that he has a minimum high school.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1356	Thank you. The next representative to report for the replica is representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1357	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, colleagues, Branka, you've described all well what the basic objectives and fundamental objectives of this program are, as well as what are the five basic pillars on which the government will especially work. But you did not say that in this composition of the motion proposed by the prime minister, there is not one who does not have a wonderful career behind him and who does not have the first job in the government as in some past. You forgot to say that for the first time, there are two commanders of the Guard troops who are in the government and one of them is the Deputy Prime Minister who will be in charge of defence and national security. These are the foundations of programme implementation and these are pillars that will surely, as they have achieved with their career to be before us today, they will be a guarantee for the development and implementation of this basic programme that is ahead of us. Of course, formulas and calculations cannot be in this document, but they will guarantee the realization of these fundamental objectives.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1358	Thank you, counsel. The next representative to report for the replica is Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1359	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Martinchev, you've been bringing out parts of this program here and basically everything you've pointed out I agree with all of you and I support all of this, but it's not a program that's a list of beautiful desires and it's something that we would like to see happen. Because in this program that we're being proposed, there's not a single concrete way or move that any of what you've pointed out will be done. And now what prompted me to come forward are measures to encourage the employment of young people you mentioned and you pointed out a very good measure and these are favourable loans to up to 350,000 kunas for young people to start their own business. But in a sentence to that same at the beginning, it begins with a redefined measure of professional training of young people. Now, you see, I don't know what that means, does that mean that the current fee that users of these 2400 kuna measures receive may be reduced to 1200 because it can also be redefining that measure or it will rise to 3000 or it may be raised to an average salary in the Republic of Croatia of 5,500 and that kind of thing. Now, if I knew that, maybe I would support this government, but these are strangers we don't know from this. Or it also states in this programme that voluntary stay on the labour market will be possible after 65 years. Now I'm interested in what conditions. Does that mean that I don't know if someone's professional and so much expert that we need him after 65 years, I'm in favour of him working but he should be paying more taxes. So if it's really worth it, and it brings us extra benefit, then let the employer give him bigger taxes. But otherwise, is this a measure to encourage youth employment? If people won't retire when jobs for young people will open? And so a series of examples that are inside. And another thing, it's a good thing to introduce a fast internet into all households by 220 years, but it also doesn't say how, does it mean that the government will allow all citizens in Croatia to have free Internet, which would be good. But we don't see it from this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1360	Thank you, counsel. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1361	Well, it's hard to explain all that through a 40-page text, but I'm glad I heard from you that these are good wishes, so I kind of expect all of you to be supportive.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1362	Thank you. The next representative to report for the replica is representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1363	Well, Mrs. Juričev-Martinchev, when you were talking about these rights, it's all very well written. I just want to know where the money comes from because I still remember some numbers, so let me tell you this. For example. Delegating maternity benefits for another 6 months is about a billion and 400 million kuna. The one-time fee you suggested last time seems to me to be some at 350 million kuna. The status of parenting is certainly another hundred, who knows how many hundreds of millions of kunas, it's hard to calculate now. An inclusive addition is something we've been doing for 4 years with alliances and associations, if you don't want to damage any disabled for existing rights and no one normal will do that to you and it needs something like 800 million kunas you don't have. You're talking about a national pension that requires additional funding from the budget. So on the one hand you have a minister who talks about fiscal consolidation, about reducing public debt, now the budget shoots all the stitches, you can't hire anyone in the social system because you don't have money. You can't increase some rights because you don't have money. This right over here, we've calculated just some of these rights are somewhere around 11 billion kunas heavy. My question is, where did it come from? All that sounds nice. And this educational reform also costs money. So the waist did curricula, but it's just a zero point. After that, where's the teacher and teacher education? Where are the other investments needed? It's an investment that pays off like all these measures here, but I'm just wondering where the money comes from. I wouldn't want all this to be part of the program again and everything to fall on the financials. That's the constitutional thing that's real, because the economic growth that went from 2% to 5% simply won't be enough for all these promises to be financed. On the other hand, you are talking about kindergartens that you will make available. As far as I know it's in local self-government units, it's in their jurisdiction. How can you promise to be available? Local self-government units have to build it, they don't have any money for it. So I'm afraid this is all an expensive list of good wishes. We will see through a certain period already this budget that will come for 2017, we will see how much will be realized.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1364	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1365	Dear colleagues, this program should be watched in a package. So we look at economic growth, putting into function untapped state property, increasing the number of employees, and all of this together can contribute to the fact that we can also have bigger state spending. When it comes to kindergartens just this short, you must know that all settlements of up to 5,000 inhabitants now have a great possibility of funding kindergartens from EU funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1366	Thank you for your reply to the replica. And the last representative to report for the replica is the representative of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1367	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I'm glad you're taking care of the demographic restoration of the country and that you think we're from the Living Wall of Demagogues. But is there more demagogy than to promise 1,000 euros for every newborn child so that no one can ever get paid such a fee? You are also in tax reform measures proposing one of the measures you are proposing is a reduction of tax relief for the first and second children. Is it in the function of demographic restoration? Is the post of demographic renewal delayed scholarships to students who start academic year 1.9 and 1.7 have to hold a strike and live in front of the Ministry of Science to finally receive these scholarships. Is it in the function of demographic restoration that two Dukic's grandchildren were kicked out of their only home today? You knew here yesterday Mr. Sincic warned that it would happen, did you come to their house or to their apartment? Will you offer her at least accommodation in your garage tonight if she's nowhere else? If you want to call them, here's my phone number, so I can give it to you. Well, if you call them, then we can talk about demagogy or some positive stuff about kids. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1368	I'd like to thank Mr. Bunjec. The next representative to report for individual participation in the debate is representative Bozo Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1369	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen candidates for ministers in the future government. Mandatar Plenkovic presented the programme to us, presented candidates for the future government, the programme and résumés of these candidates are a confidence to me that in the future we can expect a more successful and stronger Croatia. As a Croatian who has been elected as a representative, it is clear to me that only a strong Croatia is able to care for its strategic national interests as well as the interests of all Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia. I will therefore focus here in this debate only on those issues relating to the position of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia or on the expectations of Croats from the Republic of Croatia from the new government. The first refers to the exercise of the right of Croatians to vote from the Republic of Croatia. According to fairly relevant estimates around 4 million Croats and Croatian descendants live outside the Republic of Croatia. According to my free estimate, several thousand of us have the right to vote, but the fact that we are exercising this electoral right under impossible conditions is also a denial of that right. And even the Republic of Croatia's Constitution has its articles of contradiction. For example, Article 45. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia guarantees all Croatian citizens after 18 years of general and equal voting rights. However, in the second and third paragraphs of this article, we see a contradiction compared to the first paragraph when the Croats who live or reside outside the Republic of Croatia have the right to three mandates and can only exercise the right in diplomatic consular offices. In fact, it's kind of a negation of that right. I therefore appeal to the future government to go along with the Parliament to the necessary amendments to both the Constitution and the Electoral Law which will enable Croatian citizens outside the Republic of Croatia to have equal and general voting rights guaranteed by the Constitution in their first paragraph of Article 45 of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I know that the parliamentary majority does not have the necessary majority, the two-thirds majority for these changes, and that is why I intend to build together with you a climate in the Croatian public and in this House that will lead to the question of the right to vote on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, not as a party issue, but as a strategic national issue. Because integration of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia into the social and economic life of Croatia is actually a strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia. And that is why I expect that the least we need to do in this period that is ahead of us to change the law to allow for a letter or an electronic vote and thus to enable people who want to do so. Because ladies and gentlemen of the previous registration, traveling hundreds of kilometers in Bosnia and Herzegovina or thousands of kilometers in Australia, South and North America is actually a disabling of that right. The second issue I want to raise here is the issue of the position of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I regret to say that for the past 15 years, Croatia has treated this issue quite passively. Somehow silently, it went beyond eroding the rights of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina even guaranteed by Washington and Dayton peace agreements that Croatia is signatories. In this period, in fact, the result is that half of Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory, called Republika Srpska, did not have 5% of Croats living there before the war, and those living there do not enjoy any rights. And that's why I didn't want to replicate my fellow Pupovac today when he said he didn't want the Croats in Serbia to have rights that Croats in Croatia but I would be happy that the Croats in Republika Srpska have at least one representative in the National Assembly of Republika Srpska and they haven't had one in decades. Also in the second part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, called the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Croats are eroded rights guaranteed by Washington, Dayton, and we have witnessed that a member, not a representative of the Croatian people, was elected to the presidency in two terms. We are witnessing that in two mandates, the government of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina was formed without legitimate Croatian representatives from members of the Croatian people loyal to the Bosniak elites. Personally, I'd only ask agents if they weren't interested in keeping their mouths shut. I'd, I'd say one example. As chairman of the House of Representatives two years ago, I submitted a request for an assessment of constitutionality at the Bosnia and Herzegovina's Internal Court, questioning the constitutionality of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Electoral Law... the election of delegates at the House of the People's Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. A public debate was opened a few weeks ago at the Bosnia and Herzegovina Constitutional Court. The public hearing was attended by relevant experts from the country and abroad, constitutional judges. The media from Bosnia and Herzegovina, even the regional media Al Jazeera, N1 etc., were present. etc. There was no media from Croatia. This shows how much interest there is, so here some Croatian public on the Croatian issue in Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, I also want to highlight positive examples. I would like to point out a positive example of the Europarliamentaries of Croatian led by Mr Plenkovic, Mr Stier, Picul and others who, 30 years ago, have singled out the European Parliament resolution on Bosnia and Herzegovina which condemns centralism, I say Sarajevo and separatism, I say Banja Luka, and advocates federalism, decentralisation, subsidiarity and legitimate representation. I would also like to point out a positive example of the work of the Croatian President in recent months that actually advocates constitutional changes necessary to achieve the consistency of the people and stability of BiH. The next issue that is extremely important to us is the issue of protecting the integrity of the Homeland War. Valorisation of the proper contribution of the HVO both Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia, the protection of Croatian HVO defenders from political and nationally motivated persecutions for alleged war crimes. Also helping the Croatian six in The Hague to drop a monstrous and absolute indictment for the so-called a joint criminal enterprise. And finally to say about the Croatian diaspora. I look with great confidence at the future of the Croatian government and the inclusion of the Croatian diaspora and the social and economic life of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, certain changes need to be made. I have already talked about the Election Law and the amendments to the Constitution, the amendments to the Foreign Law. I believe that all Croats outside the Republic of Croatia should also be allowed to enter and move and work and stay in Croatia as if they were Croatian citizens, because that is actually part of immigration policy. And don't let anyone else in the Republic of Croatia think that immigration policy is based on sucking up Croats from BiH. On the contrary, Croatia should encourage all measures and political and economic policies to remain in BiH because it is actually a long-term strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia, the interest of sovereignty and even territorial integrity in the future. And in that context, I'm just going to mention one sequence from this program. It's a transport infrastructure. In this programme, I support all plans for the road connection of the Republic of Croatia including the Pelješki bridge and the rest. However, corridor 5C has not been mentioned. Corridor 5C is a strategically important project, highway to 5C corridor to connect the east and south of Croatia, but also to connect Croats both in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia in the Republic of Croatia. I'll also say one thing about the Adriatic-Ionian highway. I know that debates are being held here in Croatia that this highway should go along the coast. I don't share that view. I think it would be best for both Croatia and the Croats in BiH that it goes to Croatian areas in BiH. These are actually areas that were once inhabited. By abolishing the rail line, these areas experienced depopulation. Again, therefore, by means of traffic valorisation of this area I rely on the demographic revitalisation of these areas which may be extremely important for the Republic of Croatia in the future do not give God in the event of some war crisis as we witnessed here 20 years ago. And when we witness how much it is to say that the Croats were there to help defend the south of Croatia. Of course, national minorities of Croatia living in neighbouring countries and countries of Europe should be properly resolved and I would be happy to have their status resolved in the way that Croatia has resolved the position of its national minorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1370	Thank you, counsel. The first person to report for the replica is representative Maria Puh.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1371	With respect to today's proposed government here, it is not possible to take away the impression that a large part of Croatia is also bypassed and ignored. Namely, from the north of Croatia, from 5 counties of Krapina-Zagorska, Varazdinska, Međimurska, Bjelovar-Bilogorska and Koprivnica-Kryzeva County, no single person was proposed to be in the government of the Republic of Croatia. I think it is unimaginable because northern Croatia is one of the most competitive parts of the Republic, part of Croatia that has a positive external and trade balance, part of Croatia that has very much, very developed small and medium entrepreneurship and part of Croatia that really works and works. It is simply unimaginable for me that 15% of the population of the Republic of Croatia does not have a single representative in this today's government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1372	Thank you, counsel. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1373	Mr. President, I'll be very brief. So, I don't actually see what triggered this replica from my presentation. But in the programme of the Croatian Government, which was presented by Mr. Prime Minister, he is, in effect, saying that he advocates, therefore, a balanced development of all areas of the Republic of Croatia and of transport integration. So I think these things will be represented in the work of the future government.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1374	Thank you. The next representative to report for the replica is Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1375	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You are right, Croatians are in BiH as a constituent people who have been placed unfortunately by the minority, as they do not respect the Dayton Agreement as the other two people in BiH. The constitutional obligation of the Croatian state, of course, is to take care of the Croats in BiH. Unfortunately, all governments have not done so well so far. As a result, we also have the results that moved the entire area, that we have an increasing population population. The Croatian state must help, have an obligation through institutions, financial support to help your provinces in Bosnia and Herzegovina where Croats live. It is the only way to preserve the strategic national interest, i.e. the safety of the Republic of Croatia in that area where we have no backdrops in the depths. Of course, the great pain in the Homeland War was given by Croats from BiH through the Croatian Army and the Croatian Defence Council as well as vice versa. As one of the participants in operations of the legitimate Croatian Army in BiH, I was with General Krstic, having difficulty defending those areas and preserving myself. But today, convicted, is tried by people in The Hague who have been forgotten by the HVO, i.e. HV generals who have been forgotten except recently, Minister of Justice Sprlje went among those generals and saw what they needed to be helped through legal aid. Even their books did not want their manuals to assist the Croatian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1376	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1377	Thank you, Mr. Representative Buljo, for giving me the opportunity to mention a few more things that actually time at my disposal did not allow. Unfortunately, when we enjoyed the articles of original Washington and Dayton today, but I will stay at Dayton, the position of Croats in BiH was much better. In fact, the violent and forced revision of Dayton without national parliamentary legitimacy by High Representative Petric in 2001, and based on this electoral law, this is whose constitutionality I questioned led to the fact that Croatia's constitutionality is present today only on paper. As far as the other things you said are concerned, in fact the contributions of Croatian defenders from BiH to the defence of Croatia and BiH are generally known and I am convinced that through this joint Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders will also be valorised and resolved status and Croatian defenders from BiH. As far as I'm concerned, I'm still an optimist, actually maybe more than ever today because it's actually creating consciousness in both the EU and the world's power centers, in the first place I think of the United States, that the Croats are this... BiH element and that Croats are actually the most trusted ally of Western values in BiH. [[You don't understand.]] On the other hand, in BiH, a single vertical was acquired thanks to the Croatian National Assembly at the head of whose main council I am currently. We today have a coherent common Croatian policy in BiH. Fortunately, we have today a vertical power from the municipality via the county, entity and state of Croatia's legitimate representatives and is happy that today President Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic has at Pantovac and that we will have from today both the Prime Ministers Mr Plenkovic and Mr Stier who care about this issue, who know his strategic dimension. And I'm sure in the next period, we'll change things for the better.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1378	Thank you. The next representative to report for the replica is representative Darko Paric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1379	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament. Dear counterpart Ljubic is interesting that you are inviting us to the unity of Croats in Croatia and BiH and to neglect the Croats in BiH. When you look online, correct me if I'm wrong, but it was just one of the main factors or factors for the unification of the Croatian headquarters party in BiH that you were HDZ. You founded HDZ in 1990 if I am not mistaken and instead of one HDZ party and one Croat party in BiH, two parties went to the polls there. Then when this BiH presidency member was elected, then you from that HDZ in 1990 chose one, the HDZ original and original one chose the other, and when two of them were fighting the third strawberry beers. That's the way it is. And finally, as the Internet says in the end, you came out of that HDZ in 1990 because you had a fight with them there, now you're independent. I was just curious when you were talking about this unity, so I got a little Googled and I saw everything. So if I'm wrong about something, feel free to correct me. Here, I apologize in advance. And the other thing, when we talk about the vote and representation of the Croats from the BiH diaspora in the Croatian Parliament, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia speaks clearly about it. With a two-thirds majority, the Constitution has been passed on this matter so that I really don't see what the revision of all these things is now. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1380	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1381	Thank you, and here's an apology because you're wrong, of course. I founded the HDZ in BiH in 1990, but I also founded HDZ 1990-2006, but I also renewed the work of the Croatian National Assembly 5 years ago when strategic Croatian national interests came into question and I have already been here for six years at the head of the Croatian National Assembly General Council, which brings together 12 Croatian political parties and 95% of the elected Croatian officials. And thanks to this project, we have today reached this vertical of legitimate Croatian representatives in BiH. The only thing I've never been to the Party because I've never been to the SDP, I've always been a member of the HDZ. So, even today, here I am formally not a member of any party, but I say to myself that I am an independent HDZ male, and here I have been honored to run this list for the 11th constituency on behalf of the HDZ. Therefore, I am more HDZ than you may be Darko Paric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1382	Thank you. The next representative to report for the replica is representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1383	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to say that let us start by assuming that the problems of the Croats in BiH are economically faulted by Serbs and Bosniaks. However, the question arises who is then to blame for their problems if they are in the majority? You will quickly conclude that the economic problems in BiH are equally affecting all three nationalities, and that the main cause is not their other nationality but their own corrupt politicians and corrupt government that is silent and hides the fact that BiH is under monetary occupation as well as our own homeland. In 1997, New Zealander Peter Nicole was installed as the governor of the Central Bank of BiH, and as his colleague just said while two of them were arguing in the BiH case, the three people argued which of them would be the governor, so the New Zealander came. In the same way, for 20 years, you have been scolding both HDZs together in BiH, as well as the SDA's vultures of Bosniaks and Dodik's Marbles of Serbs. And why is that? You are only doing this to turn people against each other so that in their suffering and suffering they can actually retain their political authority which is basically a servant because BiH is under your authority nothing more than a protectorate and a high representative is yours. There is no democracy in BiH, and you are all silent about it. You haven't been able to hold an election in Mostar for eight years and it's one shame for which you can't blame others but yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1384	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1385	Dear colleague Pernar,... corruption and dishonesty has been fairly distributed to people more or less in the whole of at least this area that we are inhabiting. Therefore, you cannot accuse people or political representatives in BiH of corruption. On the other hand, BiH has been blocked by its constitution, by its arrangement, by its kind of ludicrous shirt, which it so called the BiH Constitution already mentioned here by the High Representative... Petric but only unfortunately when he left that post. In BiH live decent people, very talented people, members of all three constituent nations, people who want to live in peace and who want to live in a functionally prosperous BiH. However, this constitution does not allow that. I will tell you what I said at a meeting outside while I was the chairman of the House of Representatives, where he was also the Honorable President of this House, Mr Leko, in his previous term. I said this: Leko and I are almost the same generation, born in the same municipality in Široki Brijeg, attended the same high school, no less I feel European than Mr Leka, and Mr Leko is the president of the parliament of the state that has been in NATO for six or seven years, which has been in the EU for two years, and I am the president of the parliament of a state that is light years away from that. So it is that BiH needs a new constitution, it needs an arrangement that will allow both people and peoples to live together and develop together, and this constitution can only be the product of the agreement of three of its forming constituent peoples. I say creative because many do not understand what constitutionality means, so without one of the three constituent people, without its equality there is no BiH as such, at least it is not within these borders. And that's why the Republic of Croatia has a strategic interest, but also a constitutional obligation. to make sure that BiH finally becomes a functional... state. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1386	Thank you, counsel. The next representative to report for the replica is representative Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1387	Thank you, Mr. President. I am pleased to hear from you that you have tried and that you are trying to fight from the Croatian Parliament for the Croats from BiH, especially for the Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina. You've been in politics for 25 years, so you're asking a question right here in front of everyone, and what did you do for the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Of the 140,000 Croats, up to 6,000 Croats returned. If we help Croats like this as much as you have helped in 25 years of politics, unfortunately everyone will die in exile and never return home. If you've been walking around the Bosnian Posavina and the villages around Derventa and in all of Bosnia's Posavina, all you've seen is wood growing out of houses. No one has ever touched in Croatian and the truth in Bosnian politics to help people. The war ended 20 years ago, I believe that every man should return to his home, try to build his home and influence Dodik and Banja Luka to allow it. I Pupovac understand what he's fighting for Serbs, but he doesn't understand us that we don't fight for our interests, and we know that in 1463 no Orthodox church was in BiH, that BiH was the cradle of Croatia, of course there were no Turks until then. What do we have today? We have a displaced, evicted, devastated Bosnia where people pay and people are miserable. I don't know what to say more on that subject. Shame on you who led the BiH policy, and I hope that one day, even from here, Croatia will take one right turn to help these people and to return to their homes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1388	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1389	...so I did not come here to fight alone for the Croats in BiH, but with your help, with the help of the parliamentary majority, with the help of the opposition, only in such a way as to believe that the position of Croats in BiH is the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia. And what did I do for the Croats in Savina? The same thing for the Croats in Herzegovina. If I didn't tell you what I've done right now, I'll just, I've established a hospital for example. The general hospital in Orashje, me as the health minister at the time and which has never been there and today the Croats can be born or the citizens of the Bosnian Posavina in Posavina do not have to go to Zupanje. Of course, Mr. Misic, from your debate, I understand one thing, one replacement of the thesis that can often be heard in certain circles of Croatians both in BiH and outside Croatia as if for all the victims of Croats in areas where they were really injured, the area of Posavina, parts or the whole of Republika Srpska, I spoke of it earlier, as if it were all the blames of the Hercegovians. As a matter of fact, the Herzegians are to blame for being less hurt, and in fact, it's not. I was a month ago during a campaign at a big rally in Orash where there were over 500 people, the event was called "Hercegovina Posavini" and there could be heard in fact all of what I represent. That the Croatian politics in BiH, decorated in the HDZ, in the Croatian National Assembly, care for the interest of all Croats in BiH, believe that in none of our projects, we actually look nothing better at the position of Croats in Herzegovina than at the position of Croats in other parts of BiH. But the approach that all the evil that happened to the Croats in BiH is the fault of the Croats or the Herzegovians, the Republic of Croatia is amnesting the true culprit, it is the Serb aggressor. Therefore, I ask you to take good care of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1390	Thank you. And the last representative to report for the replica is MP Zeljko Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1391	Dear colleagues, I see that a lot of heads on my right aren't too interested. They... Cell phones up there, watching what happens for dinner, calling women, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Croats saved BiH three times. For the first time in the referendum, the second time they saved her there when the boundaries were drawn. And it's still... Today. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and hold 51% of the territory of the current BiH. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I was amazed that there are people still in Croatia who do not know that there are Croats in BiH. And for Mr. Pernar, this is for Mr. Pernar, too. Like this, where were some... when 7,000 wounded were transferred across Sava to the hospital there in Slavonic ship? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Where are your Croats today? Total demographic disaster. Half of them are gone. But if politics is about setting priorities what about... from BiH. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because Shakespeare... as we pay our heads as some, who lead some plays out there, which are forbidden in Poland,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and Austria. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who, does anyone here know exactly how many defenders... Take your own life? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Where were those heads? These people died to preserve the territorial integrity of the Croatian state and today they are subject to ridicule, black propaganda and some heads there have the right to talk about Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. How's that? It's a question of why there's no such information. '96. The year President Tudjman spoke of addressing the nation did not mention either HV or HVO. Only Croatian forces. And these people, some three times wounded, may have taken their own lives for a ride in this House and elsewhere. As far as Croats are concerned, 16 billion kunas are coming here, they are third-row citizens, the last... for citizenship, the Black Sea Police Administration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Croats... Three years to get citizenship born out there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a shame. And some heads who still, sitting here, are guilty of this, of the current situation, and some have been beaten by double taxation and will never return [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] [[/Subject president: Representative Glasnović thank you. Please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1392	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1393	Dear fellow Glasnovic, I agree completely with you. So what you just said, I just said in one of my discussions in the previous term, so true Croats have saved BiH three times. But the Croats are saving BiH today for the fourth time in a way that today's Croatian political representatives in BiH are leaders on BiH's Euro-Atlantic path, because it is in fact the only framework that can keep BiH fully and BiH intact and keep the country functional and prosperous in the interest of its three constituent peoples. I must tell you, therefore, that, with the great commitment of the Croatian political representatives in BiH headed by the presidency member Mr Ćovic, with the great help of our euro advocates Mr Plenkovic, Stier and others, we have managed to submit a credible application for BiH membership in the European Union and, in fact, the quick involvement of BiH in the European Union, and even without even some, so to say, requests that have been made towards Croatia, etc. and the interest of BiH and salvation for BiH. Therefore, the Croats are also saving BiH four times today, aware that our roots there are the deepest, that our seal on BiH culture and education and politics is the deepest and our commitment to BiH is the greatest and we are determined to stay in BiH. We do it, we need support from the Republic of Croatia, which I have no doubt.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1394	I'd like to thank the representative. The next representative to appear in an individual debate is Agent Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1395	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The program of this government is very, in fact, not a program, it is one pamphlet, but there is one part where they touch, according to Croatia and its foreign policy. He says this way, the Republic of Croatia will benefit more from the benefits of EU and NATO membership. Ladies and gentlemen, what use have we been getting from EU membership so far? By all accounts, none other than membership fees of hundreds of millions of euros and the miserable money that has been returned to us has been imposed on us by a whole series of directives limiting both monetary, tax and agricultural policy. The result of EU accession was not economic growth, i.e. employment growth. On the contrary, employees today are less than they were when we joined the EU. As far as agricultural production is concerned, by entering the EU, we did not get a new market, but we lost our own. The number of blocked citizens has also increased since EU entry and the same thing has happened with external debt. The VAT went up, too. I do not know if there is any positive economic indicator that we can boast about joining the EU. The only thing you think of as success is probably the escape of more than 100,000 people from our country who found probably jobs there but they weren't created here. And the basic idea was to create these jobs here. As far as NATO and its blessings are concerned, we have seen the gifts of the NATO Pact. We've seen Yemen bombing recently, we've seen the dead there, and that's what the D.C. team is doing. So Croatia is not a NATO member who decides, but America decides everything and we are only servants there who listen and do what they are told. Look what America did in Iraq, ladies and gentlemen. There was literally a river of blood due to American aggression. Gentlemen, don't turn your heads. As far as American crimes are concerned, in Libya, or NATO's intervention in Libya. In what way was Croatia involved, what are the results there? Islamics have been brought to power, even an American ambassador, a sea of refugees, colonies of refugees are now coming from Libya to Europe. These refugees were gone before, and the Libyan people today live far worse than they ever lived. NATO has launched this false humanitarian intervention to prevent or protect civilians, however civilians were killed in the NATO intervention and what followed much more than died in the decades of the rule of Muammar al-Gadddafi. As for NATO intervention in Syria, we see ladies and gentlemen that NATO is the one who arms these rebels with one Islamic omen, who take down heads, who kill hostages, and ultimately the US officials themselves admitted that they created ISIL, that they funded and armed them. And civilians who die in Syria are killed on a daily basis with Croatian weapons because Croatia donated to the US government weapons that actually ended up in Syria at the request of the United States. No one's ever answered for that. As for the policies in Afghanistan that America has applied there, and why is our army even there? I don't know if you know this, but in 1980, a convention led by Democrats decided to bring the Taliban to power. He gave them money and weapons, and then Bin Laden was a friend of America. And what did America do? For eight years, she brought the Taliban to power, and then, under the pretext that the Taliban were terrorists, only a few years later, she went down, and she's been killing people there for 15 years. With what result? Why is Croatia there and why is Croatia serving the interests of the NATO Pact? As for the refugee crisis, gentlemen, were there any refugees from Afghanistan in the columns until America attacked Afghanistan? It's not. Were they from Syria until America got involved there and made a bloody beer? Ladies and gentlemen, it's not like neither Iraq nor Libya. The US government, or NATO pact, is the largest generator of the refugee crisis and is also receiving the smallest refugees.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1396	I'd just ask Agent Pernar if he could stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1397	You got it. As for the activities of Croatian representatives in the EU or NATO, and you say here that you will be more actively involved, how has Croatia been more actively involved? What has Croatia decided so far, and what has Croatia done to stop genocide and crimes against Middle Eastern countries? Absolutely nothing like she didn't do anything for the rights of Palestinians who were trampled and humiliated on a daily basis. Here it writes the government's policy will focus on meeting the following specific objectives, foreign policy in the role of achieving national interests. Ladies and gentlemen, what national interests and which of these interests do we fulfill with our foreign policy? Is the arrival of millions of refugees on our borders our interest? Is our interest in killing people in Syria or the rise of the Islamic state in Iraq? What use do ladies and gentlemen have for me? It says here that our country will defend our country, that it will seek to protect territorial integrity and state sovereignty. Ladies and gentlemen of the state borders of our country are a hole in the hole, columns of people passing without any documents. What a security threat it is to talk about too much. It also says it will support the BiH on its way to EU membership in NATO. Gentlemen, what will the BiH get from the EU and NATO? It's as if there's no high representative there already, as if the BiH was not managed outside anyway, as if NATO troops were not already stationed there. As far as your last point is concerned, the following concerns about Croats in the BIH and the care of Croatian minorities in other countries will be the strategic task of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Ladies and gentlemen, ask yourselves, if HDZ does not care about Croatians within Croatia, if Croatians are moving buses on a daily basis from Croatia, I know that some people find it funny, but families who, young people leaving our country, that's not a funny topic at all, so if it doesn't help Croatians in Croatia how will HDZ help Croats in BIH? How? The answer is clear, i.e. by itself. Not ladies and gentlemen. And it's the biggest shame that the party that by its nature was supposed to be state-owned did everything to make our country's sovereignty fall apart, to come to us with directives like that. GMO Directives. Because what happens, and pro by your sovereignty and your patriotism, ladies and gentlemen and your co-determination in the EU. The EU adopts a directive to allow the sale of GMOs for human use, i.e. specifically two types of GMOs. And what can Croatia do about it? Nothing because the EU directives are binding. On the other hand, within the EU, the voice of Croatia is worth less than the voice of the four of us from the Living Wall here in the Parliament. So that's where you are. Croatian representatives to the EU Parliament may be 1% ladies and gentlemen. And please, Mr. Petrov, don't try to keep me quiet because I have the right to be exposed to this subject, please. I would like to say that the European future, which means the HDZ European future for us here in Croatia? Does this mean our departure from Croatia? Is it a European future for young people to go to Ireland and Germany? Is that their European future, ladies and gentlemen? No, it's not a European dream. It's a nightmare. And not to mention what kind of monetary policy the EU imposes on us. You have barely managed to get the revision to enter the CNB, but the key issue is monetary policy, and the issue is running away from it like the devil from the incense. And until that question is resolved, nothing will be resolved, ladies and gentlemen. Someone will tell you what your foreign policy has to do with our monetary policy. It's all part of the same story, it's all the story of the IMF, it's all the story of Washington, the World Bank and Brussels. The only thing we get from them are solid directives: there must be privatisation and we've seen it. It started on the phone. How to proceed I'm God knows [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Thank you. [[The President's intrusion: Excuse me.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1398	Well, I, uh, really had no intention of including myself except to warn you. I know the subject carries on, so that's why you thought about it. She doesn't even have a replica. We are continuing to have the next individual participation in the debate. Representative Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1399	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. My individual debate will also be a final debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. My colleagues and colleagues have been during this day, so I would not say too long a session, because this is an extremely important topic, the topic of forming the new fourteenth Government of the Republic of Croatia has pointed to a whole series of shortcomings in the programme that Prime Minister Plenkovic presented to us. The basic problem of this programme should also be reiterated. This is not a list of measures, this is not a list of what the government will be doing in the next period, but this is just a list of what the government would do, and probably all of us would like to see it happen in Croatia. Because health care for all, better education, economic growth I do not believe there is anyone in Croatia who would have a grudge against it. But I believe that there are many people in Croatia who would like to hear how it will happen. And today they didn't get a chance to hear it. When we look at that program in it, we see a whole series of problems. The first one I would single out is, for example, when we look at a chapter relating to the long-term sustainability of public finances. We also heard in Mr Plenkovic's speech a clear message that taxes will be reduced in this term. And what are taxes? The country's arrival. So Mr. Plenkovic announced a reduction in the state's income. He then announced a reduction in public debt and a reduction in deficits. And after all that, he announced the introduction of a whole series of new rights, so an increase in expenditure. Gentlemen, I'm not an economist, but the elemental logic is that in the account where you cut your income, you stop borrowing, and at the same time you're planning bigger expenses, something's wrong. There's a number missing here. And please don't tell me that these revenues will be compensated from EU funds. These are strictly dedicated revenues that can only be used for projects that are intended. They cannot be used to increase, for example, social rights or to spread the circles of other rights you have announced. The other problem that I've seen in this program that they've been talking about, and my colleagues, is that simply some of the things that you said there are not true. For example, point 2.4 of sport. You say, "The government will strengthen the financial responsibility of sports clubs and alliances by amending the legislation and better regulate the supervision of them." Gentlemen dears of HDZ and MOST, it is not necessary to adopt a new regulation in order to do this. That regulation already exists. It's called the Sports Act, and it's you, because you've now refused to apply that law. And now tell me why I should trust you after having experience from the past few months where you have persistently refused to apply the Sport Act and what it stands for why I would trust you today when you claim to do so. You had your chance, you missed it. Don't get out like this now. So much for the program. However, this government has another problem, and this problem is of human nature. The truth of will should be completely sincere and congratulate Mr Plenkovic for some of the things he has done. The fact that Mr Kovac and Hasanbegovic will no longer sit in the government is commendable. The damage they have done to the reputation of the Republic of Croatia is immeasurable. And that is why we should certainly welcome the arrival of their deputies, and I will honestly say since at least Mr. Stier I personally know that after Mr. Kovac, Croatian foreign policy will indeed rise to a higher level, although let us be realistic as to who his predecessor was and it will not be so difficult. I don't know Mrs. Obuljen personally, but as someone who's been active in Pula's film festival for many years, I can only speak commendably of her. And I'm very sorry that she's had all the low criticism in the last few days. She didn't deserve it with her work so far. These are two solutions for which the Minister, pardon Mr Plenkovic, should be congratulated. But when I look at those two solutions, then I really need to ask myself what Mr. Barisic needed. I read his biography, we read all of us, we read some of the things that were written about him. Look, it's about a person who's looking after her irony who's had to fly out of the ministry who's going to be headed today for the raving. But not at any time, he had to fly away in the time of Eve Sanader. Let me say it's still a success. Because in Eve Sanader's day, not everyone can fly away because of the raving. However, this is a minor problem compared to his behaviour in the well that he should now handle. It's about a gentleman who was holding 19 colleges at 4 universities at the same time. Extraordinary reach! The extraordinary reach his colleagues made when it became publicly condemned. So he's a respected professor, Dr. Mario Plenkovic, said: "I am absolutely against bagging." Yes, that is what he called Mr. Barisic's behaviour. So, Mr. Plenkovic says: “I am absolutely against bagging, the problem is with graduate studies when everyone is running after a lousy fee. Anything more than the prescribed standard should be sanctioned." Several years ago, respected professors wanted to sanction Mr. Barisic's behaviour, today we are installing him in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, one of the most important segments of the future government has already been corrupt at the outset and everything that should be achieved in the field of education has been questioned. I'm going to finish, all this stuff we heard today doesn't give us the right to believe that this government will be more successful than the last one. As citizens of the Republic of Croatia, we want a stable government, we want a successful government. On the first day of your work, you didn't prove that you could do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1400	I'd like to thank the representative. The first representative to report for the replica is Andro Krstulović Oprah.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1401	Dear Mr. President, I rephrase to Mr. and Honorable colleague Grbino, who re-insinuates and deceives the public and claims that Plenkovic's Government will not implement the Sport Act. I resolutely refuse that. It stresses, the Sport Act will be implemented in the Republic of Croatia as well as all the laws. I will be one of the strongest advocates to improve the Sport Act in that element that I quote: "Dry the swamp". Something you promised and didn't do. The shame that you have implicated the future government that is being translated from previous shame will never be as great as the shame your government made when it brought a shameful lex Perkovic. Which made us look black in front of the European public. So do not have selective moral optics, look at your doorstep and do not insinuate and speak and imply that the Law on Sports and Laws of the Republic of Croatia will not be implemented in the coming period. We, Parliamentarians, are the guarantee that all laws will be implemented. Unless something suits you in that law, please choose to change it. If it will improve the situation, ensure the transparency of the business of sports clubs, above all the Croatian Football Federation, and if you come out with quality suggestions, be sure I will be the first to support you in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1402	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1403	Dear colleague in February 2016, who was in power? Bridge and HDZ. What quota did the Minister in charge of sports come from then? From the HDZ quota. From your party, as far as I know. Did he implement the Sports Act? No, he refused to do that. Did anyone in HDZ question that? It's not. Did you say what you're saying then? You're not. So let me say very responsibly that the party you are a member is responsible for not implementing a law that has been passed since February of last year. And as for what the future government has promised for sport, it is very simple that the government will change the legislation by not implementing the law but by amending the legislation to strengthen the financial responsibility of sports clubs. This financial responsibility is embedded in a whole series of regulations that are in force in the Republic of Croatia. You don't need to change it, you just have to spend it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1404	Thank you, counsel. The next representative to report for the replica is MP Tomislav Klaric. You're giving up? And the next representative to report for the replica is Christmas Macar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1405	At the beginning of your presentation, you said that this programme was not a list of measures but a desire to achieve something. I listened to the prime minister in my presentation, and I was overjoyed when he singled out among all these important things as the most important education and demography. However, by reading it, I saw that somewhere taxing was listed at the beginning, however, it was still little and explained not in the way I expected. Thus, part of education says that the government will implement a reform of education in line with best European practice. Well done! Furthermore, it writes equal opportunities for education and education. That's where you went for a little explanation. The government will ensure equal availability of kindergartens and school institutions for all by building and equipping adequate educational institutions. Okay, but it's a little bit and complemented here by harmonising the cost of education and education with the financial opportunities of the family. I report here for reasons because I come from a rural area where we have very big problems and we have also pointed out in the adoption of the last budget, we have proposed amendments, we have spent the whole time agreeing to do so in some way because in our view secondary education should be compulsory education. And that high school education requires then free transportation or subsidized transportation. Free transport for social categories, but subsidized transport for all others. And here I do not think that it should stand with the financial opportunities of the family or as we have equal access to higher education where the transportation of students according to the property censorship writes. So maybe those in cities think it's unnecessary, but for us in rural areas it's very, very important.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1406	The next representative who applied for individual participation in the debate, representative Marko Sladolov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1407	Thank you, Mr. President. Here I am going to talk a little bit about this new Sports Office. MOST Independent Lists also welcomes the establishment of the office and the separation from the Ministry of Education. There are big problems in Croatian sport, the situation is very serious, and if things start to work out quickly, we think it'll be almost hopeless. The violence that we have witnessed today and that no one can approve for every conviction. However, it is the result of the violence that has been carried out for many years on sports and specifically on Croatian football. This violence is also evident in the non-implementation of the Sport Act. Most of the fans I belong to because I've been part of this subculture for 30 years wants to solve problems through the institutions of this country. A minority doesn't want that. The majority protested on the Split Riviera, organized by the Association “Our Hajduk”. With the same goal, the Association "Together for Dinamo" also organised an initiative such as the petition "One member, one vote" and that is the path to go. The Croatian Football Federation must not be a state in the country, the Croatian Olympic Committee too. Croatian athletes must be integrated and work active after completing their career through the Ministry of Police and Defence. The national strategy on sports must begin to work. Croatian law should also be addressed by amateur and school sports. Here I was a classmate for 20 years just before I joined the Assembly. I was a eighth grader. In my class, I had two top athletes, world champions from tae kwon dou, and if their school hadn't gone on a date and I hadn't gone to class to meet them, those kids would have gotten a bunch of unwarranted hours because there's no excuse for top athletes in basic education, and that should change too. Here's hoping this office will go that way and welcome its establishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1408	Thank you. The representative who volunteered for the replica is Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1409	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague, in this assembly already on several occasions talk about sports, the problems in sports will not be solved by calling sports during one government, during another sport, or because we have established an office. The problems will be solved when we are aware of the problems and the laws we make and implement. I recall that my colleague Srdjan Gjurkovic on his initiative was in the higher and earlier assembly of changes made and additions to the Sport Act, and this law was not implemented. If the law had been implemented that during the government that is here, there were still numbers of seconds, if it had been implemented, it would probably have been much less. However, what we need to know is that amateur sports should be distinguished from top sports. It is equally necessary to distinguish the sport from which it is earned from the top sport from which it can be earned and from which it is not. I give myself the right to talk a little bit more about it, I was the president of the Croatian Sailing Union and the sailors won three medals at this Olympics, two gold and one silver. In that one medal, I won't say how much money was fabricated, and it's 15 to 17 years of work to get to the medal. The road to the medal is long. We really use this time to talk about sports but we need to pass the law and implement them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1410	Replication response. Excuse me, Mr. Grmoy. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1411	Thank you, Mr. President. Here you know that I've spent many times with your colleague on shows and we've warned about that fact together. I, as a representative, personally and referred the parliamentary question to Minister Shuster, and I have repeatedly warned against not implementing the Law on Sports, and with this statement of yours, I agree. For me, it is a radical law in which a Croatian sportsman wins the medal at 35 years of age is retired, instead of being integrated into the Ministry of Defence and the police. Such laws have Italy, Hungary and this is not a great cost for the Croatian budget, it is about 200, 300 people who are top athletes and who do not end their 30-year career but continue to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1412	Representative Sasa Djujic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1413	He wasn't a colleague of GRmoya's, yeah, he's single, all right. Thank you very much. My dear colleague, the speaker has been disfellowshipped... by what I did in that last session of the 7th convocations of the Parliament all the time, violence should be condemned by everyone, but it was you who said very well. The violence currently taking place in Croatia is the result of years of violence against Croatian football by individual officials and that the HNS cannot be a state in the country and that is also true. But this situation was created by your coalition partner HDZ because the HNS is a HDZ subsidiary. Because there are 11 HDZ members sitting there from 17 executive board members. And I hope that just you as a MOST, that it will be one step that you will apply, that you will force them to depolite sport. Also, I, in this House, talked about 50,000 citizens protesting the situation in Croatian football on the Split coast but I doubt that things will change while that main generator of problems in Croatian football is one of the published HDZ donors in all elections, while sponsoring campaigns by President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic. Then she calls those fans from Split "mongers" and so on. Probably not knowing what that means. And these are the problems that I hope you guys from MOST will point out and make sure we change them together. And there you will always have the support of the SDP because the SDP and initiated along with colleagues from the HNS changes to the Sport Act and we know who stopped them. The Croatian Olympic Committee is also a special story. 2, 3 weeks ago, we had elections in the Croatian Olympic Committee which again chose the same leadership and spent millions on sports television but we will probably have opportunities to talk about this soon because a report on the work of the Croatian Olympic Committee is expected soon in this House which has not received a positive opinion from the Croatian Parliament for the past two years. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1414	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1415	Thank you, Mr. President. So here you SDP gentlemen had four years to solve this famous football swamp, nothing happened, MOST was part of the government for seven, eight months, and he didn't have the Ministry of Education under him, and now you're objecting to us for those six months, and for four years you've done nothing, you brought this sport law under the pressure of fans when you saw so many people protesting, it's a familiar fact, that law was not passed by the Parliament, but the fans brought it out, they were their suggestions. And don't speak for the fans because I've belonged to that subculture for 30 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1416	Thank you. The replica was reported by a representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1417	Dear President, thank you. I would agree with Representative Sladolev, who belongs to the cheerleading groups, or Bad Blue Boys, for 30 years and knows this problem well. It is true that MOST has insisted during these 7 months of government participation on the implementation of the Sport Act. That the representative of Sladolev also sent questions, means to the former minister why the law is not being implemented. And the fact is, besides the fact that here are the colleagues from the SDP and the HNS that most members of the HNS Executive Board are members of the HDZ. It is also a fact of what I said today that there are certain links between the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Football Federation, because Mr Ćović, who was appointed by HNS, is 9 million kuna means from the Croatian Football Federation which is now not sold and there is obviously some connection between Mr Vrdoljak who approved it and there is a transcript of the talks, meaning between the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Football Federation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1418	Thank you. The next representative who reported for individual participation in the debate, representative Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1419	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today, the Croatian government is represented by which, in accordance with the pre-election promises, we expected at least some minimum progress compared to the last government. However, from the review of the number of ministries, the names of ministers and the programme ahead of us, it is certain that no significant changes will be made. A message is enough that Mrs. Dalic is in the government as vice president, directly representing the bloodthirsty from the banking sector. A person without any electoral legitimacy as well as a technical prime minister, Canadian-Croatian citizen Tim Oreshkovic, a great patriot who has not been able to learn even Croatian. He was the prime minister who would enter Croatian history as a eater of caviar and lobster at the expense of Croatian taxpayers. We can be because it doesn't match the Croatian voters anyway, but to those who put it and supported it, and it was the bankers from Kitzbühel. In a similar way, Mrs. Dalic will take care of her own interests that will move in the direction that after the end of the term, she will get an even better paid syncure in one of the banks' administrations. There is also Minister of Finance Zdravsko Maric, a representative of the corporation that symbolizes a privatisation robbery in which it was possible to buy a company without a single kuna in its pocket. And the minister who carries the watch on his hand worth a minimum of 50 thousand kuna, which in itself already clearly shows that he is not here to protect the interests of Croatian citizens but only to enable himself and his employers to make material breakthroughs and personal pleasures possible. Such a profile of economists must by no means be given the opportunity to properly represent a people who live in difficult existential conditions and a deep social crisis, robbed to the naked skin, non-refundable loans, performances and blockades. In doing so, the failure of Plenkovic's own mandate is crucial. But what we can expect from the Brussels personnel who are asking the EU's representatives to allow us to protect citizens from illegal loans in Swiss francs. Didn't such behaviour already tell us enough about who should be the proud prime minister of independent and sovereign Croatia. As far as the candidate of the bridge is concerned, I don't want to waste my words on them, because even before the government formed itself, they gave up all pre-election promises. They only cared about the chairs. This is not an independent government, but a government on a remote control that continues to implement the economic policy of wild capitalism. This government is in the service of foreign structures of the power of a narrowly wealthy click, which accounts for less than 1% of the population, and which has a wealth of thousands of lives while at the same time exploiting the integrity of people who work bloodyly and hard for wages that are not enough even for the most basic life. No, this government won't open jobs, will not boost exports, won't stop demographic disaster, won't unblock anyone, won't stop actions, won't implement monetary reform, won't introduce free textbooks and the transportation of students or will pay off scholarships in time and will at least solve the country's social problems such as digging through containers and homelessness problems. She won't do it because she's not independent and she doesn't care at all how the citizens of this country live. Gentlemen, it is time for us to abandon capitalism in the service of creating modern slavery and turn to protect our own interests. Croatia has every prerequisite to be a small paradise on earth, has resources, land, water, infrastructure and people. There is not a single strong economy that has previously failed to implement strong protectionism and independent monetary policy measures. Let us be as brave as Argentina, Ecuador, or Great Britain, to be like Iceland. Let's arrest the bankers who committed the crime, throw out the IMF World Bank and the credit rating agency from the country. Let us have the courage to protect the better life of all of us, not just a few of the chosen deeply corrupt layers. When we see such courage with our ministers and mandaters, then I can expect my vote. Not until then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1420	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague. The following debate came from a distinguished colleague, Ivan Vilibor Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1421	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here he would address the prime minister, unfortunately he's not here right now, it would be nice if he came, soon he'll take his duty. I would like to make a comparison with my speech that I gave to Mr. Tihomir Oreshkovic on his way up from there. That's when I compared Croatia to one tree, and I said I've been following a small-footed policy since I was 10, 15 years old, watching governments come, governments go, ministers come, ministers leave. However, the way this system works has not changed. I'll bring up Mrs. Dalic again. It was precisely your appointment as Minister of Finance when you replaced Mr. Shuker in 2011 that fueled the revolution, so-called. The facebook revolution that our party came from. That's when we realized that change in ministers doesn't mean change in policy. And by changing ministers in this government, the HDZ government and the Most, I also don't see any policy change. So I compared Croatia with the tree that was there in some past, at least in economic terms much stronger, more mature, richer, and how they come these set of rose branches, tore the fruits, tore the roots, etc. The similarity between Mr Plenkovic and Mr Oreshkovic is that they came from far away, somewhere far away. Mr. Oreshkovic has been withdrawn from Canada, Mr. Plenkovic has been withdrawn from Brussels here to take the helm of this ship. I think that like Mr. Oreshkovic, Mr. Plenkovic has no awareness of how living Croatian citizens are, he doesn't know exactly what country he took over, he took over a country where at least every ten citizens live in debt slavery, in a blockade we know it, 328, 30 thousand blocked as long as already, which many other people are one pay away from the blockade, one pay away from the commission, and the lice often ends with what happened today and that's a dissuasion. He inherited a land where many without labour, effort gained rights, power, wealth. Here, perhaps a day or a week ago, a war profit indictment was confirmed against George Gavrilovic, a man who got half of Petrinja out of nothing, to say half of Banovina, ruined that end and for twenty-two years was never going to end. Who knows how long his trial will take, who knows what will be at the end, the Constitutional Court will bring it down, whether it escapes justice or not, whether it may be as it says, it may not be exactly as Sanader gets sick and dies, we will see. And how many such war profiteers our justice system hasn't touched, which it didn't trace, where no investigation was even launched, a confirmed indictment, let alone that they come to some kind of judicial one, so... where the verdict is a power of power and then take something else from them. Far away, far away, but I believe most citizens dream of such an event. Why? Because citizens aren't stupid. If you're looking at a graph of industrial production in Croatia after the 90s, it just goes down like this. Well, our parents, our grandfathers worked in those production plants. They witnessed the whole robbery conducted by Gavrilovic and the furniture. So they know who is in a village where they lived, in a city where they lived they have done what work to this day has not been processed. Therefore, these are one of the most important items, Mr Plenkovic, which you are not present here, which you must know. And I urge you to reform institutions to make this a real rule of law. I said today we're not a legal state. We don't have a closed legal structure. I call on you what I said to Mr. Oreshkovic that the institutions that are paralyzed, poor and corrupt in Croatia should finally be put to rest. We were talking about HRT yesterday about how it needs to be restructured. I don't think there's a side that didn't agree to be restructured here. Here is your task – restructure it, reduce costs, increase quality. The CNB is so mentioned. Here you are even admitting that he worked very badly. You even admit and go at least in principle some kind of law change. DUEDY how many unpaid concessions, ask your ministers. Ask Mr. Maric who spoke of it in the last term. Solve that problem, at least partially. How many outstanding tax debts are in the IRS? How many unsolved items are in the DORH, etc. etc. I don't think it makes sense to list the problems of this country. In this country, there are interesting lobbies that hold these institutions that don't allow them to function, that we become really the right states where justice is achieved within a real time, two, five years. How long did the trial take for Perkovic and Mustac in Germany? I think for one two years, it doesn't matter that it's Perkovic and Mustac, but you can see a click going on a process and it's a difficult process. We must strive for efficiency. Justice after 20 years, 30 years is not justice, but injustice and citizens know it very well. In addition to the mentioned Gavrilovic George, there is, of course, Ivica Todorovic, who is not foreign to business. I don't know. Sell him some paprika, work for him, and he has to pay you a million kunas. Don't pay you and then come like this and look at you now you can get 800,000 kuna or we'll go to court and after five years you'll get that million of yours. It is simply blackmail, it is a shame, it is one of the burdens of Croatian agriculture. Here's the time. I'm getting away. I call on you, therefore, that at least with some of these institutions and these social phenomena you are counting on what Mr. Oreshkovic did not, because if you don't count you won't do anything. Here's at least two choices and take care of it, I'm asking you to at least two find the courage and get rid of them, show the will. Let's not waste as much time as we've wasted so far. The representatives of the Living Wall, the representatives of our coalition, are only at the heart of the welfare of our citizens. We've already said in principle yesterday that this HRT Act that has a good intensity that we're going to support it. Maybe he'll fall in the Constitutional Court. Maybe he really keeps the money in citizens' pockets. I hope so. We're not gonna go out of spite and meanness against everything and say nothing's wrong. No, we will support that intensity by hoping that the law will work even though it is not, of course, the best legal solution to make our citizens feel better as soon as possible. And if there's any other smart suggestion that we'll also support, but looking at your program here as far as the form is concerned I must commend you this is a little better than that of Tim's picture book where at the end of one whole A4 page were written three or four Ministers' names to get a little bit thick, is that it doesn't fit all on one, two sides than on six to eight. So, the form is a little bit better, there are no icons. I also agree that it's not some high standard and I hope that here because you haven't answered questions today as well as Mr. Oreshkovic, that's another similarity, that at least in your address you'll say something concrete, something broader because this is really one squeamish list of some literal desires. I do the same thing when I read it, if I really needed a job, I really should be reformed. However, will there be courage to do so by watching the program, by looking at the people I've already seen here at the beginning of this year and looking at the way you treat us here with MPs, I have no hope and I don't trust your government and that's why I won't support her, nor will she support her colleagues. And in the end, I didn't really expect that, since we started this late, I call on the Prime Minister to look at my speech on youtube or somewhere else because he's not here yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1422	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ivan Willibor Sincic, for the debate. The next individual debate was attended by Mrs Ana-Marie Petin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1423	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So right at the beginning, since there will be a vote on the Croatian government in about 15 minutes, I am taking the opportunity to congratulate all future ministers on their new functions. And here I wish you a lot of success and a lot of happiness in further work as well as our future Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic. Listening to Mr Plenkovic's presentation as well as reading the Croatian Government's programme for that period, I am pleased that in the part of agriculture and rural development Thank you, Vice President. [[/Intrudica Brkic: I would like to ask you distinguished colleagues and colleagues for a moment's attention. Let's let our colleague continue the debate. Thank you.]] Here I am glad that in the Croatian Government's work programme in the part of agriculture and rural development, the first sentence is that the developed village is a key factor in the overall economic development of Croatia, because the Croatian Peasant Party also pointed out a key fact in its programme, which is that without a strong village there is neither a strong city nor a strong state. Accordingly, it is perfectly normal for you to implement a agricultural policy that will ensure adequate income for agricultural producers and, of course, Croatia's food independence, which I find extremely important for our country. But what is further highlighted in your programme, which is that you will also achieve a strong trend in exporting agricultural and food products with added value. Of course I agree with this. But what I would like to mention here is that today Croatia imports agricultural products for 2 billion and 300 million euros, that we are not self-sufficient in food production or that we do not produce as much food as our needs. Today's situation is that Croatian agricultural markets are ruled by merchants, by buyers, by imports and our agricultural producers have no one to sell their quality agricultural products to. That is why I call on you to first approach the solution to these problems, to approach the over-indication of agricultural products because we know that today on the shelves of the trade chains there are goods that are marketed at much lower prices than are marketed in other countries, that most often these goods do not have to go through such strict production processes as our producers here in Croatia and that our farmers do not, in the most cases, get paid in time for their goods. I therefore propose that the law on the prohibition of unfair commercial practices be adopted as soon as possible to protect domestic products, to protect domestic production and therefore domestic jobs. And that's the first thing you should be working on. Of course, parallel to ensuring an effective financial system for agriculture, reducing VAT to a retro-material used in agricultural production to make our producers as competitive as possible and implementing existing duties reprogrammes. If you set priorities this way, you will help our farmers to stand on their feet, have a regulated market and an environment in which they will no longer be deceived and encouraged to deal with agriculture. And as for the exports you mention the biggest export you will achieve if you succeed in binding hotel and catering chains to place exactly domestic products. In this way, you will provide domestic producers with the market, and you will certainly promote our country's tourists better. Agricultural policy when we talk about agricultural land policy, I must say that putting into operation unused agricultural areas is very good. But the first thing you have to do is pass a new law on the availability of state-owned agricultural land. You must give priority to family farms in the assignment of state agricultural land and order should be put in place precisely in the possession of agricultural land. It is necessary to conduct tenders under new laws, and when you revitalise agriculture, then the unprocessed hectares will be much less. Because today there is no great interest in unprocessed agricultural land since the overpriced land is in operation. Furthermore, when we talk about the development of the village, about the development of rural areas, about the development of Slavonia and Baranja in which we all swear it is necessary to take care not only about the development of agricultural production as food production but also about the development of rural areas in a way that builds municipal infrastructure in a way that builds transport infrastructure in rural areas, in a way that builds schools, kindergartens and all that life means in a small place. Standards need to be introduced to small places just as large-town residents do. And that is why I also welcome the introduction of demographics as a new part of the ministry. And here I appeal that, especially in that part, you look right at undeveloped areas because there is a big difference in the problems of young families and young people, those who live in cities compared to those who live in rural and small environments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1424	I thank the MPs. The first representative to report for the replica is MP Mladen Majer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1425	Your Honor, I didn't want to report for an individual debate because it would take a long time, so I'll be shorter. I'd just like to relate to an amendment to the Agricultural Land Act, which is essential that you spend as soon as possible so that they don't get more tycoons of agricultural land. To really get the agricultural land back to the family farms. To remember 7 to 10 years ago, when we went to large farms, the large agricultural holdings that led 80% of such large estates fell apart. Which are practically on the burden of both state and local self-government and themselves on the burden. Because the process needs to be put into the process of amending the Law on Agricultural Land and I hope that the future minister who made the sudden turnover from the Ministry of Economy to the Ministry of Agriculture will do so very quickly. And in fact, we just need to step up the work of the Agriculture Agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1426	Thank you. The next representative to report is Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1427	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Dear fellow Petin, you said in your presentation that it is necessary to allow equal development of rural areas and that every municipality, every village deserves equal treatment as the city and other environments. Of course, it is necessary in this context to preserve life in Slavonia and Baranja and to have a veterinary clinic and schools and kindergartens and DVD homes in each of our municipalities, as well as family medicine. I am therefore pleased that the health program defines the resolution of the roles and places of health homes as the bearer of the development of family medicine on the ground. But they also need to define the role of the director of health homes so that they can develop a quality system, that they reward quality because at this point they can't. It is also necessary to prevent the adoption of regulations that define certain areas of health in a way that please certain groups, and on the other hand allow for leaving public health which is certainly not good and that we do not want and will not contribute to the development of family medicine or emergency medicine because we will miss the doctor. And a national hospital development programme has been mentioned, it is said about how the debts created in the functioning of the hospital system will be recovered, I would like to hear something about it, but it is certainly a wish for all residents of Novi Gradiška and Pakrac to resolve the status of hospitals in Novi Gradiška and Pakrac. And here, through investment in science, is our wish in Slavonski Brod to get rid of the question of the university. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1428	Thank you. And the last representative to report for the replica is Marko Vedligaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1429	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's a brief review, you've begun your exposure with the mention of rural space. And I come from a rural space that, by some definitions, may belong to a more developed rural space, let's call it that, but I would refer here to the development index that was listed in the government's programme to go, the prime minister himself mentioned it would go into its kind of change. I'll say he's not unfair... after all, he's unfair and he's developed. Analyze the original income per capital per capita compared to the national average in northern parts of Croatia that create a strong labour intensive industry, export-oriented which is unfortunately due to its competitiveness has low wages. Of course, these original per capital revenues per capita are much lower than those in the southern parts of Croatia. What it does, of course, is that unfortunately we have less resources to invest in schools, kindergartens, communal infrastructure, and we have big problems out there with that. In fact, let's not do tax reform and break it over the back of local self-government. The first to start this in 2007 with a profit tax reform when those successful local units were punished, when they were taken from 20% of the profit tax was precisely the HDZ government. I hope this won't be a case anymore and that successful local units will also get what they deserve. Here's some kind of my message, so it's not just that we need to develop regionally those areas that may be slightly less developed than that successful ones also get less through this development index model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1430	Thank you. Final word on behalf of the Representatives' Club Lives the wall of the Alphabet democracy representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1431	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow MPs and MPs, distinguished citizens. A new government will be inaugurated in a few minutes. Unfortunately, we in the Living Wall have one, so I would even call the justifiable fear that this government will do nothing more for the citizens than it has done for her and that previous government. First of all, I would like to mention the fate of the Kornati firefighters who killed a NATO bomb nine years ago, they have not been compensated to this day. And the only survivors who sued the state of Frana Lucic lost the dispute and must pay huge compensation. I think our country should deprive these people of the practice of ignoring problems or hiding them under the carpet. My colleague Sincic once again warned of the issue of the executive law. The only solution to all the tasks is in such a way as to limit the cost of the application by the maximum amount of the debt. It means the cost of the execution can't be higher than just the claim. In this way, the imposition of debts for all small activities would become invaluable because the cost of that push would be greater than the amount of money that would be forced and we would currently solve or disburse both courts and people from a large number of executions. I also once again appeal to the Prime Minister's government to suspend secret evictions and to lift visas for Russian tourists, they were always good guests, and unfortunately the previous government has introduced visas for them and therefore less is coming for them now. I think it was the wrong decision as well as the decision that the prime ministers came to us from Brussels from Canada or the presidents from Washington and from where, especially ministers. Because ministers and prime ministers who come outside and go outside, unfortunately most often represent foreign interests, not our own. I would also like to point out the problem of violent actions by citizens who cannot repay their loans. We appeal once again to the government to amend the executive law and protect the only real estate from the commission. This promise Mr Plenkovic made before the elections, we appeal to him to make that promise so as not to repeat the situation as with today's violently expelled family of Croatian defender Mirko Dukic under the orders of the illegal RBA cooperative. I'm afraid dear colleagues and colleagues that my words don't fall on fertile soil here and that you colleagues and colleagues from my right-hand side, meaning from HDZ that this is all funny to you and to people who dig in the trash, people who are waiting in line in front of the soup kitchen and people who collect bottles, this isn't funny and you are. And you will laugh at it and it is you who brought these people to the container. I hope you'll come to your senses and realize that this isn't a game, that it's about real lives and real people. And that you will begin to respect other people's opinions and that you will deal with corruption in your own ranks because we all know that not, is not Ivo Sanader the only one who stole, you all know that. That's what you all know, ladies and gentlemen. You put it all on him and he was like Pedro, he was guilty of everything and whoever they caught with their fingers in the jam he just told me so Ivo Sanader and everyone saved themselves ladies and gentlemen. And now he's very sick, and he's sick and you're all fine. You're fine and he's sick. And you see, when we speak now, Mr. Plenkovic is a European way to do this, but when you look at Mr. Sanader, ladies and gentlemen, the media presented him as Plenkovic today, keep your eyes wide open and be wise. Every good thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1432	Thank you. I'd like to ask you before the hearing is concluded, the term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1433	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. I thank everyone for today's debate that I'm experiencing with content, interesting. And first of all, I once again establish a deep respect for all the MPs who delivered their views in the debate today on the government programme that I proposed this morning around 11 o'clock. Our programme has a clear link of course to the HDZ election programme and partners, with the MOST election programme, with our political agreement that we have reached with representatives of national minorities. It is common, I would say, an executive document that is intended to be a framework, a political platform for the work of the future government of the Republic of Croatia. There were several methodological remarks and expectations that we should have been more precise, specify the measures, maybe attach the tables, specify the deadlines, we could have done all this because these documents were ready. However, experience, seriousness, responsibility, understanding the role of profession, understanding the role of ministries, all those people who will go through all the measures in detail, all the laws that this government will propose to the Croatian Parliament have led us to conclude that we are in a methodological approach gradually. And that's why this document is a frame. I think the suggestions we've heard are very useful and very constructive. We will consider them, all the ministers you see here and the ministers will respect those aspects of ideas that we consider useful for future legislative proposals. And that's what's good and that's what's useful. Several colleagues mentioned the topic of even regional development. Several colleagues said and listed representatives in the government may not reflect all Croatian counties. I can say that as a former representative in the European Parliament who twice received the mandate of all Croatian voters, I have a very good feeling for all Croatian counties. Far beyond the 1st constituency I've been elected to, far beyond the 10th, where I come from. I know dear colleagues and colleagues what road infrastructure is, I know very well how to get to every centre of Croatia's county, which is faster along which way is slower. And we know where the problems are, we know where the bottlenecks are, we know where we have to continue in order for Croatia to be more connected in the broadest sense in terms of infrastructure. And when it comes to access not only to solidarity, it is not just to call on justice that is a clear commitment to even regional development as a whole will lead to the work of my government. We didn't say in vain in the pre-election campaign project Slavonia, but that doesn't mean that he doesn't start here for us in my logic, for example. in Sisak-Moslavina County, which should be my priority for all future Croatian governments, because it may be the county where the prices of transition and the prices of those policies may not have contributed equally to the development of the very part of Croatia. It is similar with other parts of Croatia, with a mountain-mounted area, with the Gorski kotar, for example, with all those areas which were unfortunately part of the war of devastationed areas in the Republic of Croatia, with better integration of Croatian islands, not only with the mainland but with each other. These are all tasks that this government and future Croatian governments will do. We are all part of one great process and our efforts to contribute to the better of the country. Therefore, the approach I made clear on Friday, I repeat it here, it is inflammatory, it is open, it understands that we all went to parliamentary elections to articulate certain ideas, political views, policy approaches, and that there is certainly something positive in each of these ideas that can eventually end up in part of a strategy or legal and later in their implementation through the institutions of the Croatian state at all levels. And so we'll be careful and we'll try to take into account everything we think is useful and good. It's normal that as my colleague Hajdash Doncic said, who I see is generationally close to me, and belongs to a generation who listened to Ladni Franc. I'm not going to read everything Predin says in those lyrics, but it's okay to breathe for our collar. I won't say what he said after that, because I don't think that would be appropriate. And it's your role and it's good and we expect it and it's democracy and it's parliamentaryism. And we will, of course, act not on the basis of great consensus, but on the basis of normal functioning of government and opposition, but all that is good will have space for me to find its place in quality policies that will improve the lives of Croatian people. The subject of education has been mentioned many times. It is a key topic for the Croatian future, for our children, for our young people, for our willingness to be a competitive country on both European and global terms. And in this respect, I think that when passion calms down, when methodologically approaches this subject, soberly, when everyone who can contribute to this process is involved, then I think that a process that has been practically for more than 11 years, which refers to the reform of the education system, we can end up trying to be one stable, responsible EU member who will have quality people who compete for jobs on the market of 500 or here after Brexit a little less millions. And that freedom of movement and opportunity and going out and going back will be a normal reflex as it is in other countries. I mentioned in the opening part the importance of protecting minorities, I'm going to underline it one more time. I think the dialogue we have achieved with the elected representatives over the past month has been exemplified. We will continue it regularly and try to send a message to an inclusive society. The theme that's mentioned in the program but I may not have highlighted it in the speech, we can't say everything we put into the program orally here. And he cares about people with disabilities. Our fellow citizens like that have nearly 500 grand. At EU level, 80 million. I'm glad they're going to succeed me here from tomorrow, my colleague Ljubica Lukacic. Through its work, and through the work of the Government, we will take care of the inclusion and right to give dignity and the rights of persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia. When it comes to our third-year citizens, if we succeed, it would be good to increase pensions by more than 5%. It's our ambition for this indexation over the years and economic growth to be at least the first signal and I think that's what all of us are expecting right now. When it comes to critical considerations regarding the government's composition, of course it is natural to now take the first or second day after the known names are looking for possible weak spots. And I asked the candidates if you had weak points, mostly everything I heard in the talks, which I could objectively know about the people I propose as prime ministers, and with certain nuances, convinced me that they were all primarily professional, that they were politically willing to be engaged in both the government and those files that were within the work of their ministries and that they would stick to this job with enthusiasm, passion, responsibility, the desire to take advantage of this moment, which nevertheless objectively looking at our society is only rare. And that's why I think this team of people who are here with me will give everything they can in their best faith and intentions. And that is what led me to make these very people part of the government that I intend to implement the programme we presented today, which will do its job responsibly with the desire to leave a positive and constructive mark as members of the Croatian government. All that is not well, of course, first of all with responsibility, will be taken over by me as the president of that future government. I expect today the support of those who have given us the signatures, the support of those who may have concluded this over the past month. I also expect criticism from those who consider that another option, some other government would be suitable for Croatia at the moment. And I will try to promise what I said three months ago, that I will try to give Croatia political stability, legal certainty, a quality economic framework for growth and development and social solidarity. These four points sublime everything that I think each of us could sign and today it is the honor to take on such responsibility that belongs to me as I hope the future president of the Croatian government and these people who believe tonight will gain confidence. We'll try not to let him down. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1434	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The constitution of the Republic of Croatia has been established that the government is on duty when it is trusted by the majority of all MPs in the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure have been established to vote in favour of the Government's proposal as a whole. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines that most of all MPs show confidence in the government. Please determine the quorum. Thank you. 139 MPs present. So we have a quorum. I am voting to propose that the Croatian Parliament exercise confidence in the president and members of the government of the Republic of Croatia as proposed by the mandate. Please engage. Let's vote. The vote is over. I find that with 91 votes for, 3 abstentions and 45 votes against the voice of confidence expressed to the Prime Minister, Mr Andrej Plenkovic, members of the government, vice-presidents and ministers. Let me congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, the Prime Minister, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, the Deputy Prime Ministers and I wish for successful and effective work. - Give it up. - Give it up. And now, ladies and gentlemen, by showing confidence to the President and the members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the conditions for the Prime Minister and the members of the Government to swear a solemn oath. Article 120 The Rules of Procedure have been established in the manner in which the oath is made. According to that article, the President pronounces the text of the oath, after which he named the members of the Government who are standing up and saying "I swear". The text of the oath reads: I swear that I will knowingly and honorably act as a member of the Government, respect the Constitution, the laws and the legal order, and advocate all progress made by the Republic of Croatia. Master of Science Andrej Plenkovic, President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1436	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1437	Doctor of Science Martina Dalic, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and Minister of Economy, Small and Medium Entrepreneurship and crafts.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1438	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1439	Davor Ivo Stier, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and Minister of Foreign and European Affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1440	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1441	Retired General Damir Krsticevic, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and Defence Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1442	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1443	Doctor of Science Ivan Kovacic, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and Minister of Administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1444	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1445	Doctor of Science Goran Maric, Minister in the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1446	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1447	Vlaho Orepic, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1448	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1449	Ante Sprlje, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1450	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1451	Doctor of Science Zdravko Maric, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1452	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1453	Tomislav Tolusic, Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1454	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1455	Gabriela Žalac, Minister of Regional Development and EU funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1456	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1457	Lovro Kuščević, minister of construction and spatial planning.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1458	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1459	Doctor of Science Slaven Dobrović, Minister of Environmental and Energy Protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1460	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1461	Oleg Butkovic, Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1462	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1463	Doctor of Science Tomislav Coric, Minister of Labour and Pension System.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1464	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1465	Professor of Science Milan Kujundzic, Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1466	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1467	Nada Murganic, Minister of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1468	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1469	Retired General Tomo Medved, Croatian Defence Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1470	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1471	Professor of Science Paul Barisic, Minister of Science and Education.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1472	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1473	Doctor of Science Nina Obuljen Koržinek, Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1474	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1475	Gary Cappelli, Minister of Tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1476	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-19-0.u1477	Once again to the president and members of the new government, I want a lot of success in the work. I am now setting a 30-minute recess to hold a session of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. The sitting will be held immediately in the hall of Stjepan Radić, hall number 133. In addition, I would like to invite the representatives of the clubs to a shorter meeting at the Office of Presidents of Parliament. Thank you. It's 20.50 hours. In addition to the beginning of the agenda, it will be announced that the photo of the representatives for the production of parliamentary cards will be held on October 20th and 21st, Thursday and Friday starting at 11 p.m. in the Chamber of Ivan Kukuljevic. This is what we're going to do on the agenda. On the agenda goes the point - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament, first reading, P.Z. No. 11, Proposer: The club of the representatives of the Most Independent Lists is proposed by the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists on the basis of Articles 172 and 184. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You took the material to the benches. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System and the Committee on Justice. You received the report at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Representative Miro Šimić, please.
