ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6445	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. The Croatian Parliament adopted on 30 November 2012 the Law on the Restitution of Public Institutions, which entered into force on 1 January 2013. This law covers their significant part and institutions in the health system, so that recovery is approved for 31 healthcare institutions of which 29 hospitals and 2 are home to health. The purpose of the recovery was to bring the continuous accumulation of losses created in the health system, to bring them into order and to tackle these losses set out in order to continue to operate positively and to enable the financial stability of the health system and thus to provide quality health care. Debt, i.e. outstanding liabilities, were made on 31 December 2013, and the deadline for the completion of the recovery proceedings was April 2015 when the government was due to decide on the termination of the recovery. However, the decision has never been made and the State Office for Audit has expressed its opinion in its 2015 work report that the objectives of the recovery of health care relating to the implementation of deadlines and the fulfilment of the monetary obligations set out in the law have not been reached, although significant funds have been spent on the rehabilitation of healthcare, since the obligations of the sanitary health institutions and the Croatian Health Insurance Institute have been made and further significant. Since 2013, 3 and a half billion kuna has been paid out of the state budget for the rehabilitation of health institutions. The institutions that were in recovery at the moment, so on 31.12.2013, they had outstanding debts in relation to more than 2 billion and 100 million kuna. A three-and-a-half billion kuna recovery two years later, so in 31.12.2015, the state of these institutions is such that they have once again outstanding debts of over a billion, over a billion and 830 million kuna, with the fact that these institutions continued to accumulate losses. All the institutions that had been resuscitated in 2013 have registered a deficit in their operations of one billion and a half kuna, and in 2014 these losses, i.e. outstanding liabilities, continued to accumulate and amounted to an additional little over 300 million kuna. It is evident from all of this that the process of recovery of health institutions has not fully achieved the objectives set and that new measures and rationalisation and reorganisation of systems and operations must be made available through the implementation of reform measures which primarily relate to the real needs for the rationalisation of the health system, starting with emergency medicine, primary health care, secondary health care and hospital health care systems, palitative care and patronage services. Since the recovery process has not achieved its objectives and it has proved to be a failure to carry out it is unsustainable and unwarranted. In fact, here is the question of whether the objectives of the recovery have been achieved? Namely, for the first time since the independence of Croatia, competitions have not been held for these institutions, but people have been appointed without plans and work programmes and without résumés of persons appointed to the head of such institutions. Which is a principle that we can't really continue to support in this way. So, not entering the individual role of each of the people at the head of these institutions we actually created a system that does not allow control, does not allow local self-government to have insight into the operations of the institutions that are owned by it. Namely, the Rehabilitation Act provided that all those institutions that launched the recovery should be returned to the institutions, the founders and that is, the counties of 2017. So, the law itself stands out of force in 2017. The question arises in what state would these institutions be returned to the founders? By amending this law, it will allow the Ministry of Health to commit itself together with the institutions and their founders of a special agreement in a way that restores the new dues incurred during this period when it was a time of recovery so as not to cause further damage to the institutions and the founders of these institutions because it is clear to everyone that the counties do not have enough resources to actually repay the debts incurred in the meantime. Therefore, this draft bill on the completion of the Law on the Rehabilitation of Public Institutions will enable the implementation of the procedure for suspending the rehabilitation of public institutions and restoring the founding rights of the Founder but without returning new debts to the founders, which is actually the county or the City of Zagreb if this is the City of Zagreb. Here, I'd like so much for the opening part.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6446	Thank you very much. We have two replicas on your exhibit. First of all, he's the esteemed representative of Mira Bulja, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6447	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, you mentioned among the institutions and health homes that were in rehab, you said two homes of health. I'd like to get a little bit on these health homes, and before that, I'd say that what's not good, of course, needs to be changed, and especially if it comes to health care and that it needs to be rationalized for health services to be available to everyone. However, health homes are the county's owners. Half of the county has more health homes within the county, and some are centralized. So for example, we have in the Split-Dalmatia County, the largest county, just 1 home of health and these decentralised resources that go from the country are selectively naturally distributed towards the health homes. So we have examples of catastrophic health services in the area of Sinj and the Cetin region where we have 50,000 inhabitants. That since 2002 we have no meaning at all, let's say, there have been a number of specializations none of them from that home of health, from the health facility of Sinj. Let's say for a checkup of women on ultrasounds for breast cancer, it takes a year and a half, two to get in line. The ranks are thousands of women. So we don't have the same health care. That's why I support you in reforms, mainly on these edges, rural areas and other parts. What am I saying that for? Because the county's selectively sharing money. In 2002, Mr. Vlahusic was not his Dubrovnik-Neretva County... nor after that, Milinovic in Lica, and let's say in Split-Dalmatia County it was done and these two gentlemen were enforcing the law. [[You don't understand.]] So I want it to be more transparent, accessible to all citizens in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6448	Thank you very much. The Honorable Minister Dr. Dario Nakic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6449	So even though this is about amendments to the Sanitation Act and not all homes of health, so it's all about two homes of health covered by recovery, it's the House of Health of Petrinja and the House of Health Gospić, but I actually have to answer this question of yours and this remark and the problem that lies with us in areas that are less developed, areas of special state concern where we ourselves know how important health care is that people don't leave these areas. We have a major depopulation from these areas. In the proposal itself, I have actually said and announced that instead of the current resolutions because we have no intention of continuing to implement the resolutions, we intend to carry out the rationalisation, we intend to implement the reform. One of the reforms will be an emergency reform where it will actually be seen that teams 1 that have doctors will increase the number primarily in these areas that are of particular national concern that people living there will really have the opportunity to provide timely healthcare in these areas, so we will increase the number of teams. And as for the specialisation of areas, we are fortunately open to opportunities through EU funds, and this is exactly how we will be able to further and stimulate people to report to specialisations in these areas of special state concern that in or underdeveloped areas or areas that threaten the depopulation are precisely why they remain people in these areas to somehow encourage that life takes place there as normal as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6450	Thank you. Another replica is the distinguished MPs Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6451	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, here's the best you know, I think you have a checkup now of hospitals in all of Croatia and especially of the situation in Zadar. And let's not fool ourselves here, the whole point of amending this law is to get rid of the people in the Sanitation Council and the Sanitation Managers. It's true, and some hospitals have taken advantage of this possibility of a new business and started doing well. Some are not, these may need to be replaced by people who have done well. Here's an example, the Zadar hospital had a debt of 140 million kuna at the end of 2013. In 2014, the rehabilitation began and the Ministry of Health injected one financial injection of 120 million kuna from the budget and the hospital ended the year with a debt of 40 million kuna. And that's what those who have taken advantage of good opportunities like that so far, you're well-known, recognizable manager in Zadar, Mrs. Adriana Bedalov, who is not a member of any party, comes all the way from the financial sector, for the first time she understood these things. So even though the hospital had an increased range of jobs, it reduced debts. And now we need to get rid of these people with a bill like this. Why didn't you remove the chicken from the grain? After all, you promised it, especially the MOST, and here I appeal to the people of MOST that people who did their job well to keep them in such or such a staff combination. Because they are such people, they are not many, they are needed not only by hospitals, they are needed by Croatia. And give hope to the people and the message in such a way.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6452	Thank you. The Honorable Minister, sir, will respond. Nakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6453	Here I believe that the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović will certainly agree that it is much better to hold a public tender than to appoint people directly. When you appoint people directly you don't really have a chance to complain about anything but people at the head of such important institutions as hospitals can be any occupation, question and qualification or anything. So that's exactly what we don't want to do. We want to make it possible for the administrative councils to call the competition and keep those people, to choose those people who are going to be the best. Whether any of the existing renaissance managers will remain in the position of the hospital director will not be decided by the health minister but rather by the Minister of Health but rather by the Administrative Council and the Minister of Health will only have the opportunity to accept it, or possibly to veto on such a source. Therefore, here I am specifically saying, all hospital institutions, all hospital institutions in Croatia, despite the recovery, continued to produce losses. And I repeat again, that's not why I accused her, except that she's only in one institution that started last year, so to repay the debts that were made in 2014. And that institution, that's KBC Rijeka, so the only institution that was in the recovery has reduced debts since 2014 in 2015. I'm not saying that it's guilt on the people who run these institutions but I think it's in line with the democratic procedure, with some normal development that we have no appointments but to carry out competitions for such important and responsible functions with people who will offer their plan and programme of work, which will offer their CV to guarantee us that these institutions are best guided as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6454	Thank you. Now we're going to discuss committees. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Here you are, the Honorable Ines Strenja-Linić, chairman of the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6455	Your Honor, your Honor, your honors. Here, on behalf of the Committee, is the same obvious little to say. The Committee held its own session to discuss this proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Restitution of Public Institutions with the Final Bill of Law. The Committee also discussed the matter as a home working body in accordance with Article 85. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the opening statement, the proposer's representative explained that the basis for the adoption of this Act is by an emergency procedure that stems from the need to ensure that, in the context of the economic and financial crisis and its impact on the fiscal sustainability of the budget and the reduction of the excessive budget deficit, the rapid financial stabilisation of the health system is ensured. As stated by the State Office for Audit in its 2015 work report, it expressed its opinion that the objectives and resolutions of health care relating to the implementation of the deadlines laid down by law and the reorganisation and rationalisation of business in order to ensure business stability have not been achieved even though significant resources have been spent on the recovery of health care because the obligations of the rehabilitated health institutions and the HZZ have been met and continued large. The resolution procedures after the entry into force of the Law on the Restitution of Public Institutions were launched on 1 January 2013. So 9 clinical hospitals that are the founder of the Republic of Croatia, and 22 health institutions that are the founders of a local and regional self-government unit, which means 18 general hospitals, two special and 2 home health. The total amount of funds intended for the recovery of health institutions amounted to €3.5 billion. And now the total balance of liabilities for the hospital institutions in the recovery on 31.12.2015 as concluded by the state audit is a billion 828,612,047 kuna. Therefore, this law complements the provisions of the applicable Law on the Restitution of Public Institutions by introducing the possibility of suspending the recovery procedure for public institutions in health where the recovery procedure has not achieved the expected results, or where further implementation of the recovery procedure is no longer applicable. The decision to suspend the recovery procedure for public health institutions by which the founding rights are returned to the founder shall be adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Ministry. In our discussion on the Committee, a member of the Committee drew attention to the resources planned in the budget of the County for Health Institutions, which are the founders of the local and regional (regional) self-government units and relate to outstanding obligations. The problem is seen in insufficient means because the county did not predict them for this year. In his reply, the Minister agreed with the statement that the problem would be resolved by a special agreement between the Ministry and each institution and agreement between the Ministry of Health, the founder of a public health institution and a public institution will be determined in a way that settles the resulting and outstanding obligations between 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2015. And finally, on the board, we have decided, most of the votes, that we are proposing that this House adopt amendments to the law supplementing the Law on the recovery of public institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6456	Thank you very much. Now I'd like to open up the debate, and first of all, it'll be clubs. On behalf of the HNS club, the first word will be taken by distinguished representative Nada Turina-Đuric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6457	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. This law, the bill, namely the amendment of the law proposed by the Government, is in fact a measure of ad hoc which essentially will not change anything, and only gives the current minister and the current government the opportunity to fire, according to his or her intention, of course, the rehabilitation directors of the health care institution all under cover that public tenders will be carried out afterwards, that the best and most professional people will be chosen, forgetting the fact that, in the appointment of the re-election managers, those who elected had an obligation to submit a programme for the rehabilitation of those institutions at whose head they had run for. Then the minister named them as the rescheduling directors. I'd like to remind you why this law has changed in its own time. So the poor condition and the poor financial situation in health institutions are primarily in county hospitals because they are under county authority, and the counties are of course financially very poor in most parts. And the other part that refers to naturally the clinical hospital centers of which is the founder of the state. The situation was such that it had to be accessed and that it was necessary to secure from the state budget the funds for these institutions to function. Of course, when such an enormous amount of money, and it was then three-and-a-half billion kunas given to the institutions, then here from these opposition circles were the cries of the Sanitation, the old principals remain. What's the guarantee that the rescue will work? We have to do something to make sure that in those places, that is, with these new money, that is, with that recovery, one new cycle will make sure that no losses are made as in the previous period. And that's when that law was passed with that very intention. And I think it was a good tool. And today it's a good tool. You were able to assess after these two and a half years you were able to evaluate the work of these renaissance managers and, of course, those who failed to fulfil their obligations, or their recovery plans, change, resolve, name new ones because it is safe that we in healthcare have structural problems, that with this law, as we have not completely solved the problems with this past, that these structural problems of our health will not be solved in particular financially. So the essence of this law will not change. The structural problems of our health care, i.e. the lack of money in the HZZO and in the budget, that is to say, it is never according to the law as it is determined it will always create dubiosis. So the first reason why this law was passed, the previous law was, were these great losses and separations for their resolution. Then in one part and inadequacy and incompetence, I would say the ineffectiveness of the then directors to accept the conditions under which they must, after so much money has entered the health care system, take advantage of the situation to reverse the situation in their institutions and behave more rationally and efficiently. And the same reason was because they were insufficient budget capacities of the county. Now, if we're talking about county hospitals making a quality plan to resuscitate financial dues in their hospitals. Now a few words about the results of that previous law, that is, the law that we are changing today. The Croatian Association of Employers in Health has also said something in general about the situation in health care, but also about this decision, which is the law that introduced the resolution managers. The plan was, namely, that by 2015, it means in some two years trying to minimise losses, i.e. to bring health institutions into a situation that at least at the annual level of their business does not create new losses. The old losses were, of course, one part recovered previously, and the assumption was that they would have to be further rescheduled because the total amount of resources that we allocate to health care and through contributions, and from the budget, clearly through the system that we have is not enough to be what is said to zero. And that's something we tried to solve, because until you get into a situation to at least bring something into some stable story, it means that no new losses are produced is very difficult to get into structural reforms. There were then big calls right out of the county, from the regional self-government, taking away their rights, their legal and obligations. But one part of the county was inclined to actually make a commitment to the county hospitals because they were aware of the situation that these county hospitals were producing such losses that they would not be able to cover with their budgets, and they had little or almost no impact on how the restrictions were negotiated in these county hospitals. Now, I say the Association of Employers and the president of that association, who was a state secretary in the ministry at the time while Mr. Milinovic was a minister, found somewhere at the end of last year that the health system in the country is one of the best systems at all and that it should be preserved at least at the level that is now and preferably improved. It was then said that according to data provided by the Employers' Association, hospitals in the first 6 months of 2015 were operating with 553 million kunas positive compared to the same period in 2014. Also, it was said at that time that there was a significant increase in treatment in primary health care, which was also the strategic objective of the last government as regards health care, which reduced the pressure on specialist consular protection and at the same time reduced health costs as a whole, given that this level of health care is of course the most expensive. Primary health care according to the Society of Employers also records positive results. It was then concluded by the Employers' Association that the health care system is sustainable and that it is only necessary to insist that the state respects its obligations. We all know that, unfortunately, for many years, the state cannot legally comply with all its commitments from the budget according to the law on care for protected groups of citizens. Now in this situation that we have with this law, this bill of amendments to the law and the return of hospitals to regional self-government, what will happen? It will only happen that a public tender will be opened, that a new director or a new board of directors will be elected, that agreement must be given to those directors by the minister. So, if the minister disagrees with the selection of the county or the Administrative Council at the county level, the director will not be elected. Therefore, it is quite clear what is coming, what is the intensity of this law. And these results that everyone wants to be better at, means that health care is doing better but not just doing better than health care, that our patients have a better service. This law definitely does not result because we need structural reforms in health care. The intensity of the past government I think we should congratulate both ministers, and in particular I would tell Minister Varga because he had the courage to single out the Croatian Health Insurance Institute from the budget system, or from the Treasury, and all indicators say it was right. And this plan that was, so the rehabilitation of health care institutions has shown that it has results. There isn't one within the time limit we were expecting but there are results. And we think that you as the new government, you ministers, had as I said a great tool to continue, to evaluate and assess whether these recovery directors did their job, to possibly replace them. Those who were good enough to leave them and to propose to us after we arrived, and it was planned that somewhere in 2017 we will come to a more significant one, or that most of these debts will be remedied and that hospitals will be able to function on their own, to give a structural reform, a proposal for a structural reform in which healthcare will work in the future. What you suggested doesn't change anything, so we can tell our patients and our citizens that it doesn't change anything, except that it probably changes almost everything or, in fact, all the recovery directors and brings new directors who will be elected according to the will of the ruling position. I wouldn't say anything here on behalf of the CNS, and I wouldn't say anything, even if we were in favor of a proposal like this. Of course, the government has always the right to manage and have the right to set things up in a way that has in its hands what it has taken responsibility, but I think it was completely unnecessary to pass this law, that the minister and this government had in their hands a tool that could improve the existing law or the existing system and force those present who were partially successful in the recovery to be more successful, those who were unable to replace them and those who were successful and those who were also have to leave them in those places and to keep them under control. Because it's a huge asset. To control that system until it stabilizes. And there were expectations that he would be stabilised sometime by 2017. So I would not say that we neither support nor support this bill because simply with the proposal of this law, nothing or good will do us any good, and I would say maybe not even bad, but certainly worse than it has been in relation to the quality of health in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6458	Thank you very much. Your exposure has caused more replicas. She's the first one to represent Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6459	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues, you say there will be competitions and there will only be changes in that part of governance that means the first man. Whether the sanity managers were in competition and on whose criteria I was, I heard from the minister that they were without a competition or perhaps the only criterion was that they were appointed by the Holy Spirit. Well, they're purely politically appointed and admit it. I'm about expertise, quality, whether they're health professionals, whether they're economists I don't know in what way they're appointed. As far as health services are concerned, the Constitution guarantees that every citizen has the same right to health care, wherever, absolutely centralized healthcare is, at large centres. And, of course, they need reforms, of course, that you spent more resources during the required period than it was in the budget. Of course we have problems and it means mostly patients themselves, people who need medical services, just before I mentioned in the area where women for ultrasound breasts are waiting for six months if they're lucky to sign in, then six more months have to wait to enroll. So many of them die and the sick are waiting in line, thousands of them. This is a problem for Croatian health care and therefore I recommend this social component, Ministers, don't be liberal health care. Only anyone with money can be treated as is now an example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6460	Thank you. The distinguished representative Nada Turina-Đuric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6461	Look, fellow Bull, with this decision, I don't know how much you know about the entire health care system, but with this proposal, we're actually just going back to the way it was three years ago. Big problems in health care, directors who, with their insistence, here I was at several meetings that my colleague Milinovic held where the directors were given restrictions, where they were spoken to, the minister said how much you needed, I will agree to that, so if you meet it will be all right. But it didn't work out like that, it didn't work out. So they created losses in all these periods were about 5 billion to me, the state had to intervene because it was unsustainable, it was given 3.5 billion. But then said one who assumes responsibility, or the state gives money, one who assumes responsibility at the level of the institution is appointed by the state, the minister and asks for results from it. And it gave some of the minister's results, you can't say it didn't give the results because it gave the results. If one of the biggest KBCs in the country has produced results, why haven't some others? That's the question, why aren't some other recovery directors? So the question is people, we can absolutely agree on that. And I already said, so you had, you still have, even though this law will change the tools with which you could evaluate these same directors, look for new ones, you could look for them through a public call, a contest, it's not a problem. However, the fundamental problem of health with this, this change of law is not being solved, you will not be solved. Why was that done? Well it was probably done at the request of most counties and we know that most counties run HDZ where they obviously want to place their local people for directors. There's no other answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6462	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6463	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So when you talked about this law, or proposal, you said this law was passed specifically because the county as employers couldn't deal with the problems of their health institutions. Well, now, it's not like that. That you read the document more closely when this law was passed in 2012, so the document was signed by the Prime Minister of the Republic, Zoran Milanovic, who said that clinical hospitals, the total obligations of clinical hospitals, are 2.9 billion kuna. That in the first 6 months of 2012, debts increased by 760 million kuna and at the end of the year by a billion and 620 million kuna. And all the county hospitals and hospitals in the city of Zagreb, all had not as much obligations as they had in debt as only the clinical hospital centres had. Now the question is raised by the founder of clinical hospital centres is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and in my opinion, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is responsible for the rise of debts in particular in 2012 and '13. when some 3 billion kuna were missing at the annual level of health care. Remember at the end of 2012, the overall obligation of the health system was almost enormous, incredible between 9.5 and 10 billion kuna. When you speak of the minister's consent, so clearly the minister's intention, the minister will not refuse consent to one county if he appoints an administrative council or director, but he stands there as the one who will guarantee that the legal procedure has been implemented in accordance with the law. As for the Association of Employers in Health Dr. Jurkovic said this is one of the best health systems not financially but socially sensitive, that it is one of the best if not the best socially sensitive health system.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6464	The answer of the distinguished representative Turina Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6465	It's true fellow Milinovic that the signs in most of the debt in the clinical hospital centres and states are, of course, responsible as the founder. However, you must know the state your budget, the budget size, its fiscal capacity which is somewhere around 120 billion kuna is one, and the county that the founders of the hospitals unfortunately the size of their budgets and the debts of these county hospitals that have reached hundreds of millions of kunas that you know are in such a disproportionate manner that the counties could accept and repay themselves in a way that these losses cover. So we have structural problems and you know very well which ones we have to solve. Number of hospitals, most of the services they provide, etc. But we're not talking about it today, we're just talking about changing all the principals. That's all we're talking about and the way we're going to replace them, and then we're calling in this part to respect some kind of legal procedure. But when the state gives, it detachs, I personally think as I think, and otherwise that's how it works when you give and you sanitize, then you have the right to control it. And that tool I repeat again that you have now cut just because in most counties HDZ is in power and your local officials want to appoint their directors. That's the only answer to the question why this law is changing.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6466	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative and vice president of this House of Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6467	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. Dear fellow Members, I would absolutely disagree with you that the objective of this law is simply to replace the bankruptcy directors, or the resolutional administrators, which comes to the same. Because it's exactly the opposite. You're the head of the local administration, and I think it's tragic that we're pushing for something to be centralized. By doing so, we underestimate the entire people of the local, regional, or regional administration. It's not normal for us to try to centralize something. In your programmes, you too have advocated decentralisation of Croatia. That's why I'm surprised who you're discussing and that you can say that this is the purpose of resuscitating the rescheduling directors. If that were the goal, the minister could have changed it the same way without any trouble from the rescheduling directors as this one was yesterday. But here's exactly the opposite goal. The goal is to decentralisation Croatia. Here's the best example of the minister. The minister yesterday as director is not, he can't run a hospital with someone, and as a minister, he knows everything. Well, I'm fighting the opposite right now. We need to decentralisation Croatia. You're saying the county couldn't handle it. Well, they couldn't because they don't have the funds, because we're not going to decentralize the funds, because the state retains all the funds and then gives the crumbs to the county and then the county's incompetent people, or these directors or mayors are incompetent. I claim exactly the opposite. Croatia needs to be absolutely decentralised and I welcome this law and this opinion, this proposal that we have received today on the benches that should be adopted as quickly as possible. It has nothing to do with HDZ or HDZ mayors. It would be easier for the minister to name new bankruptcy managers, but it went exactly the opposite. He wants to decentralisation Croatia, wants to return to the counties the ability to manage because who can manage it better than... with your facilities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So let's support this law and support it as soon as possible. All we have to do is settle that matter of agreement. I'm more concerned about it, I'm going to discuss this agreement later, that the state will settle these debts that we now have, and we're going to give the county larger budgets, so they're going to manage their hospitals easily, that is, people who will manage on behalf of the county.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6468	The replica will be answered by the distinguished representative Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6469	Comrade Sanader, you as a longtime mayor know what the situation is even though Split has what is called a clinical hospital, so there's a state hospital and Rijeka has this situation where it's a little more comfortable with our hospitals being cared for in the most part by the state. Well, that's what I'm interested in, too, what you're interested in. What's going to happen to those losses now? Since the state in the budget as far as I could see did not plan anywhere funds to deal with losses when the county,... There's a loss. [[You can't hear it.]] Comrade Shuker, don't get in my word. There are losses and there will be losses. And I want to know where your money is. In the budgets, the county certainly didn't because they brought in the budgets that are who they are and they didn't plan on what we're changing today. So that's where we should go some rebalancing. However, this is the amount of funding that certainly no county in Croatia has at this time. These are losses that are so great that there are no counties in Croatia. Now, what Mr. Shucker says, of course, is that there are losses. Of course there are, that there are, but they're smaller than they were. They're smaller than they were and they're significantly smaller with the trend to shut them down in two years in a way that these institutions function without loss. Then you can only go into some deep reforms or what you said was decentralisation. What are you going to decentralize? Debts? Freeing the state of obligations, the obligation to transfer to the county. Well, we've seen that story from HDZ a thousand times at the county and local self-government level, so now it looks like we're looking at it again.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6470	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6471	I would like to thank Mr. President, dear colleagues of Turina-Djuric. When the former government proposed the law, it then cited a fundamental objective of resuscitating public institutions, which should be completed by April 2015. The minister claims that this goal has not been achieved. But on the other hand, you see it in the very reasoning of the law that the State Audit Office claims the same thing. Therefore, the fundamental objectives of this law have not been achieved. Therefore, I think the least I expect is that the minister then implements his project how and in what way to resuscitate public institutions. And he proposes, therefore, what is perfectly normal, to return a public institution to the founder and through the rationalisation measures then to reduce debts in these same institutions. And the other thing you're saying is, you're having a problem with the public tender. I would ask you to finally agree once whether or not you are in favour of a public tender. When you took responsibility in 2011 you then changed all the laws that imposed the need to call public tenders at the level of state administration. And you argued that you are working for the reasons why ministers must have persons responsible for the system and do not need pro-forms to conduct public tenders. So at the end of the term last year, at the end of the 10th month, you would make a salto of the dead and return public tenders, arguing that public tenders are the only guarantee to achieve the quality of work in the state administration. You, here you are again again, the same public procurements that your government has found necessary for the implementation of the policies in the state administration to be troublesome again. And what Mr. Sanader just said was that he really wanted to change and he could only make a change without having any problem changing the sanitizers and the sanity councils, and what would happen? Therefore, this way gives the founder the right to appoint his manager, so clearly through the rationalisation measures set out in the law will be remedied by these law-containing institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6472	Thank you. The distinguished representative Turina-Djuric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6473	My colleague Bačić that this intention is your meaning by amending this law is real and I would say fair then in this budget we would see some money which the county hospitals and county institutions in health care, one part at least, not all but one part of the least loss will be covered. And okay, we get the county to run the hospital, give them money or at least some money. But we don't have it in the budget. And now I'm interested in when we do this agreement between hospitals and counties and the state and the ministry I'm just curious about what it's going to look like and what hospitals are going to get more, which are going to get a little bit less because we already don't know how many times we've seen at the hospital limit how we've treated some hospitals that were, or counties that were, politically similar, and some that weren't. Now that part I'm most interested in who we're going to see, I think very, very soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6474	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished MPs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6475	Respected colleagues are not only the intensities of this bill to abolish the Sanitation Council, or the Sanitary Managers, but it is the only and main objective because the other is neither present nor visible. In 2015, as you yourself mention HZZO exits from the State Treasury and it has just made it possible, which you mention and I think is most important, it has enabled a new model of hospital management and, most of all, to collect their work because what has been done to make it valid and invoiced and later charged. By then, hospitals had limitations, and you mention it yourself. And that was the maximum part they could get since they had losses. A new model created a new and better autonomy. It's a real autonomy where that management that's been allowed to do business on the economic model and the bill and get hospitals out of debt. That's exactly what Mrs. Bedalov did in Zadar. Here's to cardiology, for example, to show exactly from one kuna invested she created two. And so this woman, so I'm saying change those who aren't because it was a model that allowed everyone in that calculation to do business. A lot of people didn't do it, Mr. Minister. Why don't you change them? You know exactly what the debts were when you were in the hospital. And it was hard to get out of it. And now you're the minister, the woman who remedied the debts for the good part, she'll get rid of them on the street. So what kind of message do we send to people who even think about engagement, to put knowledge in the service of general good?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6476	My colleagues, Marinović, have been in this House too long to know that in the case of a replica of which, of course, a colleague will not respond at all, does not replicate the minister or exhibitor. It's not right, is it? But good. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6477	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Đuric came forward with a replica of your statement that getting out of the Treasury got rid of everything. I think it's simply some kind of project that we've been doing together on the left and right is not good to politicize, especially if it's very bad. So do you really think that the money found in the Treasury is the reason for the problem in Croatian health care? So look, if you had looked at the financial plan of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute and compared it to that plan at the Ministry of Health 5 years ago, you would have seen that the plan in the ministry was far more analyticalally elaborated. So the Treasury doesn't spend money, the Treasury just collects money. If I'm not mistaken, the coalition government is in 2002 since 1.07. Croatian Pension Insurance and Health Office put into the budget. Until then, the budget of the Republic of Croatia was 49 billion and it grew to 70. So these are facts of truth and say about it, I know that every minister of health and every minister would like to have his budget. However, it is illogical for the state to be in charge of payouts or something and at the same time to have several hundred million kunas on some gyro accounts at the same time. That's illogical. And the treasure has nothing to do with the cost. However, if the plan to resuscitate hospitals served political shifts at one point, why is it now suddenly said that this is a plan for political shifts? After the 2012 recovery program, have the shifts taken place in all hospitals? Are those hospitals in a better recovery today? And as for the debt, I'm sorry, in no document left by the last government, I didn't see that HZZO at this point is more than 3 billion kuna in debt and that the Ministry of Health has 31.12. billion kunas earned and not subordinated liabilities. And that's over 4 billion kuna. And then when you add that to the nine billion then there's no way that last year's budget ended with a deficit of nine billion kuna. That's true, and that's why I'm pushing for us to introduce a register of unpaid liabilities every year to know exactly who's hiding and who's doing what's doing in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6478	The distinguished representative Turina-Djuric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6479	Comrade Shuker, look since HZO works outside the treasury and what was the intensity to do with this exit is that this system is still more transparent. This system is more transparent, so it's about health care. I remember the situation in which we were in trouble in my county because I was dealing with health care and when it was a question to the Ministry of Health that there should possibly be some money for resolutions or for losses to be released, then there was always an answer that neither the health minister nor his deputy, or then the secretary of state, but call Minister Schuker because he manages the treasure. So that part, that was it, that was fellow Shuker. And you're very convincingly always talking about these billions, you've been Minister of Finance, so I'm sure you and one part of the people believe that authority of yours, when you're throwing yourself away with those debts and billions of dollars in health debt. However, this information that you have just said simply does not stand. Because these data are at the end of last year, the Croatian Association of Employers in Health commented on them and commented on them absolutely the opposite and quite other numerical indicators. Now, either we have to agree with each other how we're going to monitor these finances in health, so we can all finally start talking about the same losses, the same billions, or the same money.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6480	Thank you very much. He picked up a plate, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Shuker. He gave up, okay. He's giving up. And the last replica is the esteemed representative Maro Kristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6481	The Đuric, Đuric, the Đurić, is the fact that the Law on the Resuscitation of Health Institutions has not received its effects and the fact is that health losses continue to accumulate and that at this point they amount to 1.8 billion kuna and continue to grow. I agree with you absolutely that the solution is that the institutions will return to their founders is not a solution that will lead to the healing of Croatian health care. The solution to structural reforms is also important for the implementation of these reforms. I certainly agree with you in this section when you were talking about humanizing. This is now a thorough opportunity to analyse the recovery effects, to really in a thorough way examine what are the recovery managers who have really received good results. And I certainly agree that such managers remain at the head of the hospital because if they were good at the recovery procedures, and I certainly agree that they should also be those who should carry structural reforms in health care, because it will certainly continue to be the state that will certainly take the burden of these major health losses through agreements with the counties. There are those health institutions that, at least partially, have reduced their debts. There are also health institutions that have affected their debt in the future through different investments. So I really agree with you that this is one moment for positive staffing in Croatian health care. So all those who haven't been successful must leave. However, this is the moment to send a message that in Croatia those who are of quality and who are expert in leaving them room and supporting them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6482	Thank you. The distinguished representative Turina-Djuric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6483	My colleague, I'm extremely glad that you actually agree with most of the things I said. And that we too are for positive personneling and for positive management above all of these systems that are primarily very expensive, but easy to be expensive than extremely important to all of our citizens. And we must always keep that in mind when we make any decision, that is, when we amend any law concerning the health and health of our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6484	Thank you. We will now move on to the next Club of Representatives and this is the SDP and will speak for him the distinguished representative Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6485	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues, esteemed fellow ministers. Today, we have before us an amendment to the law that basically means nothing but a right to the governing structure of health care. I believe this may be a simpler way to shift people who have done a good job and who in the past two years have reduced their debt in health than to agree in the Patriot coalition who will sit in which hospital seats. So this law today, which is before the Parliament, is nothing more than allowing it to go back to the way it was, which is that influence has politics, not results. But before we comment on the law itself, which has its drawbacks and which will not lead to health care being better than likely to reverse the process that is being initiated. I must make it clear to everyone here that the growth of health spending in the long run is not possible to stop, but the financing of health care can be more effective and this process of recovery has shown that funding can be more efficient, can be more transparent. On the other hand, Croatian citizens live longer than 960 this year until today, the life span of citizens of the Republic of Croatia has been extended for 11 years. It is now close to 80 years, which will affect health costs and what is important is that in the future we have to control the costs and improve the efficiency of the system. From 2000 to 2010 there is a trend in health consumption growth between 9 and 12 percent of gross domestic products in highly developed countries. In Croatia we see in the last 10 years that he is somewhere at 7.8%. However, unlike highly developed countries where the share of the state in financing the system itself is somewhere between 72% and 73% in Croatia, the share of state budget financing is at an average of 85%. And we talk a lot about resolutions. It must be said that so far in Croatia we have had 12 health recoverys. We have had 6 and 7 health reforms since the 1990s. In 1990, '93, 2002, 2006, 2008 and now 2012. From 1994 to 2007 alone, we spent around 9.7 billion kuna on recoverys, and despite the measures implemented by the health institutions, they continued to accumulate losses. And that's what we all need to know when we're talking about health costs. Between 2012 and 2013, we spent six and a half billion on rehabilitation. And today you're talking about the fact that the sanitizers have failed and that they haven't shown the results they're expected to do. So look, 20 years ago, there was no reform, no resolution that ultimately led to the system functioning in a way that does not create losses. And why is that? Because what is important is that apart from this financial consolidation, because it is a prerequisite for further need and the system is rationalized, the system needs to be set much more transparent and the system needs to be improved in a way that primary health care will be the primary dam that will solve up to 70% of cases in Croatia at this point is about 50% being solved in primary health care. And to say that the reason for today's law is that the sanity managers weren't effective and that they didn't do their job is felt. See what some hospitals have done, which is what some clinical hospitals have achieved in these past two years. There has been a more transparent business, there has been a reduction in material costs and there has been a better functioning of the health system. And so what is proposed today is nothing more than a political shift for those who have done their job fairly and for their job they have not received laurels but have received pucks for their work. Therefore, it may be easier for MOST and the Patriot coalition to replace these directors in such a way as to change the simple administrative councils and set up resolution managers than to do so with this law. But we obviously want to put on a cloak of some kind of democracy that is not in principle but is simply bringing in new obedient people. And here we're also talking about in the discussion that we want to decentralize the funds, that we want to do a decentralisation that's also flossula. Why do we want what's working so well at this point to bring back, except that we have an impact on staffing and political staffing at the hospital level. Because if the law that clearly showed efficiency is put out of effect and we get the general hospitals back to the county again, the state budget will resuscitate that hospital. And on the other hand, we have a paradox. For example, if we decentralise the funding, if we don't decentralize it and leave it at the level of what it is, but as far as I can see and there's no such intention as the Carlovak County, its entire 2012 budget, I apologize for taking this example, but I can take another one, it was 136.7 million kuna, which is enough to cover only 68.4% of the total expenditure of the General Hospital. How do you think the county with its resources will be able to finance hospitals? On the other hand, since 2008, we have tried to improve the work of general hospitals with decentralised resources, but these decentralised funds are used to cover losses in county hospitals and depreciation costs but not for investment and development, not for rationalisation, not for achieving system transparency. Therefore, the former government has also set out in this law to make the system more transparent, to be more efficient, to be turned to citizens and to give citizens adequate service for their money. In April 2013, the government decided to re-enter 9 clinical hospitals and 25 county hospitals. But none of the property of the City of Zagreb is in a state-run state-run state-run state-run state-run state-run situation. The city of Zagreb, since it has obviously great financial power, is self-recovering its hospitals, so it participates in co-financing of capital investment costs and hospital material costs in its possession. It will be interesting to compare the success of the recovery of hospitals owned by the City of Zagreb and the rehabilitation of hospitals owned by state-owned according to the model of the Ministry of Health. I'm sorry the minister didn't say a word about the results of the recovery to see who successfully executed the rescue, who failed to carry out the resolution. What is and what is seen from the media but we have no data that probably has the Ministry of Health that individual clinical hospital centres for the first time began to operate positively. So they spend as much as they earn. And that's what should be pointed out and shown that it's not all the same and that it's all about doing differentiation and not one move to throw it all in the basket and say nothing is right, let's start over. Resuscitation in itself if it does not follow it and the rationalisation of the system will not bring results. What's been done so far, which I'm also sorry the minister didn't talk about and he was the director of a good hospital in Zadar, is that we've introduced a more transparent business, the DTS is applied, we're introducing additional insurance, we've connected some hospitals, we're doing more transparent business. But clearly, all these reform changes are not enough to stop the financial losses of hospitals. I note that long-term health consumption growth cannot be stopped. But we can make health funding more efficient and make the system work better with the resources we have. We have entered the EU, therefore, the need to understand the classification and payment of hospital services in Member States, but on the other hand, we need to define the structures and rules used to monitor and pay hospital services in our own territory in the context of the understanding and acceptance of Directive 24/2011 on the application of patients' rights in cross-border healthcare. So if we don't get ourselves forced by the EU to do more transparent business, to have a single supply. One of the good things about this program is the unique supply that has saved more than 250 million kunas. Also, here I would like to talk about the obligation of the Ministry of Health to adapt the cumulative working relationship of healthcare staff in Croatia, which should follow the 9781 regulation directive, which limits cumulative work to 120%. In this way, Croatia's EU membership imposes some institutional restrictions and forces Croatia to accept its own delayed structural reforms. I'd be happier if today we had a report on what the recovery was made and that in such a way we decide whether it's worth raising your hand for this law or not. The SDP won't raise a hand for this law. Croatia does not have a legally regulated type of university hospital which also deviates from the usual European practice. The type of university hospital should be incorporated into the concept of smart specialisation and regional development strategy, as this will make access to European Structural Funds easier. We do not have the opportunity to access European funds in the way we are organised. The idea that we're going to use European funds to resuscitate the health system is something that's a soap balloon. Therefore, gentlemen of the Patriot coalition and MOST get serious, the health system is a system which is the backbone of the social state of the Republic of Croatia and needs to work very carefully in it, and on the other hand admit that some things have started, that the separation of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute has had an effect that all the changes made for the transparency of the system itself have made things look better. Some hospitals are doing a positive job. But don't expect us to bring the system to zero, or in any Western country, the health system will never be zero, but the losses themselves will be rational and the reason why they happen will be known. Also for the end, the law is clearly written in haste, therefore paragraph 1 speaks of the obligation of the founder to appoint the administration of a health institution according to a special regulation. If this special regulation is the Health Protection Act, then paragraph 2 is contradictory because it speaks to the Director and V.D. The Director shall appoint the Founder with the consent of the Minister. The Health Protection Act defines that the principal of the basic competition and selects and appoints an administrative council. If this Article 9 remains, if this Article 9b remains, we will have it in the health care system. Here's a second, two different ways to appoint a director of health care institutions. [[Intruder: Time.]] In one way, the directors of health institutions who were not in recovery from those who were illogical if their founder was the same. That's how it's gonna work, for example. Director of the Holy Spirit to appoint an administrative council and Zadar Hospital County with the blessing of the Minister. It's the same with clinical hospital facilities that some were in rehab and some weren't. It is dualism that is not acceptable because the Restitution Act does not say how long such a choice of director would be applied. And lastly, I am sorry that the minister has not looked back on the results of the recovery that are visible and that have shown that in Croatian healthcare can be done both transparently and not corruptly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6486	Thank you. Your debate, we have five replicas. The first is Honorable representative of Ante County.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6487	Thank you very much. Here I am going to start with that dear colleague Mrsic used the word decant. And what exactly happened before the right? It happened that the titler was deposed, and the new administration was now set up by a decree rather than a public competition. And it happened that the financial consolidation was missed. Now we have an attempt by this proposal to do something, and I hope that we can all succeed in that direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6488	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6489	Well, I'm sorry, then, that probably or didn't listen to the minister and I listened to him very carefully, except for the principled statement that the state's audit found that the health losses didn't have any detailed analysis of how much, in which hospital, as much as in which general hospital, a clinical hospital, because no recovery was missed. The recovery has shown an effect, it has shown that it can function transparently, it has shown that procedures in hospitals can be respected, it has shown that algorithms can be made, it has shown that waiting lists can be reduced, so these are all the things that this recovery has shown. And when we talk about this law, I repeat again, I would be happier if these were the results of hospitals in Croatia that were in recovery compared to those hospitals that were not in recovery. And the destination is because one law will replace everything, all administrative councils and everything, so all the recovery councils and all the directors, so it would be simpler if you changed the recovery council and appointed the recovery directors, but then we would have to explain why you were in Zadar hospital replacing the director who got a good success.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6490	Thank you. The second replica of the esteemed representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6491	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Miranda, you've talked about everything with the praises of a former plan or master plan and you haven't even mentioned it. Where did this famous master plan to resuscitate hospital institutions end? Where's the million-and-a-half kuna that was thrown into the wind? A billion and a half kuna that was thrown into the wind for the master's plan. [[Intruder: Billionaire.]] The Master Plan has caused 2 billion new debts. And I'm only going to say one example of that famous recovery. At the hospital in Virovitica, the Sanitation Council, headed by the renaissance manager, for one time and our colleague, Mrs. Zivko, was rescheduled by 27 million kunas of debt and made 32 million kunas of a new debt. So tell me now who's smart? What's this about? What kind of actions were made to create such a big new debt with two closed wards? The master's recovery plan was a real shot into the blank that didn't get any effects and that was understood by Minister Varga who put it in and threw it in the basket. On the proposal of then-President Josipovic, he convened the council, the council of all directors and all experts who also made debts. And it's gone. He replaced four sanity managers, four clinics, as soon as he got here. He replaced them because they caused huge debts and did non-transparent business. That's the truth. This is all farce, you've done party staffing at all levels of a decision on recovery, fraud and patients and citizens caused enormous damage and debt, you've kidnapped the owners of the management of what they've done well. If there were no limits that were also allocated in an inappropriate way, as well as points, different points, and then losses were caused. That's the truth you can't deny.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6492	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6493	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Djakic, HDZ ruled except for two periods in health care for 20 years and a few years. 9.4 billion were recoverys by 2012, 2008 5 billion health system recoverys. So you can't say that someone stole someone or led someone wrong. On the other hand, it's clear that they're rehabilitating, which is why the system is good, and that means that that recovery director who doesn't meet his conditions and his own, so what he has to do has to go and come someone new who knows it. If you had a little interest, you would have seen that out of the four recovery directors at the clinical hospital centers when the new directors came all four clinical hospital centres are doing a positive business. Therefore, accusing someone of political shifts is something that must be guided by seeing what the results are. With this law that you are proposing now, it will lead to political change in those who have done well. On the other hand, I see the government's policy continues. Here on the bench came the amendment of the government to this small law of two articles, which clearly speaks of the government's unpreparedness for the legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6494	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6495	My colleague Mrssic, I can agree with what you said. However, in order for this to be credible, given that we had a debate on the state budget and on the financial plan of the HZZO that no one but me was talking about, it would be logical for me to have you back this up with numbers. So, I repeat, the Ministry of Health has at this point earned rather than charged claims somewhere around a billion and a hundred. The Croatian Health Insurance Service has arrived and not charged three billion claims and tell me here I'm telling you publicly. Here, several times on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club in the last term, I proposed that we finally get a state of health. Tell me here what's going to happen to 700 million kuna how much it's cost to make an increased engagement, this, what, do like this, do it like that. So the doctors worked, they spent their hours, the material was spent. So that total amount is 700 million kuna. Now, tell me, if that job was approved by those sanity managers, if the minister said that's how it's done, then the logical thing is that whoever's holding the register has to pay for it. Or you'll publicly say that that 700 million isn't true, then the minister knows he doesn't have to take care of that 700 million. Because look, we didn't even get the information in the draft budget. To say so by heart that they've recovered their obligations. So do you know how much debt you have at this point for the medications that we passed here in the High House had to be paid? You don't know. But I repeat, here I am publicly saying that HZZO has over 3 billion obligations and the Ministry of Health is worth billions of dollars, not charged. I'm not talking about long-term obligations. And I'm asking you what about these 700 million that the Croatian doctors in the hospitals did fairly, spent what they needed on their work, and now someone's not gonna pay them because they say listen, there was an election campaign, I was just kidding.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6496	Replica response, distinguished representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6497	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Shuker, you ran the system for 20 years, you were 20 years old. I don't mean you, the HDZ. You had a 20-year chance for the system to be better, to make the system work better. Every system generated losses. I note again, every system generates losses for the reasons that we as a country age, which is the needs of health care getting bigger and bigger. 10% of the year your drug needs are increasing, and what I also have to say is that these people who worked have treated people. Croatian citizens have received health care they would not get within the time limit they have received now. Therefore, these are the funds that our citizens have made, so I and you, out of contributions, out of taxes, and all in order to treat someone else who is sick. It's solidarity. Therefore, it was neither time nor what the doctors were doing that was not thrown away, they were healing people. Are you against people being treated or not? If you're against it, say, no more tests in hospitals, hospitals will work on cold drive, there'll be a system at zero, but people will die. If that's what you're up to, make your point.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6498	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Your Honor, Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6499	A colleague, Miranda Mrsic, deliberately injured Article 238 for political reasons. So I made it clear to my colleague Mrsic that Croatian citizens received a health care service, that Croatian doctors did their job fairly, that you would not pay them, that you would not pay them, that you would not pay them, and that is the only fact. And no one's against citizens getting...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6500	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Damir Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6501	Mr. Chairman Mr. Mrsic, my replica is heading towards the fact that you said that this law is primarily intended to be replaced in a political way by managers, i.e. hospital managers. [[Please don't throw away. Allow the MP to make a replica.]] That's what you're talking about you were supposed to talk about three years ago when you just did it. The law that you've passed that you've kidnapped the founders' hospitals has gone precisely in the direction of excavating political personnel exclusively to the head of the hospital for the resuscitators and rehabilitation councils and the resuscitators. I can tell you this as an example of the Koprivnica County Hospital where everyone is headed by the SDP's resolution manager who, by the way, is neither a doctor nor an economist but is also an economist and by this and by some family criteria has come to this place. Today the hospital in Koprivnica has 50 million kuna, so the recovery failed. It went out of the hospital just for human beings at the hospital, the hospital left only six anesthesiologists, not to mention other personnel who left the hospital. So only emergency operations are performed due to lack of adequate medical staff. That's the consequence of this law that you passed in 2013. We're trying to fix things with this law. Of course it will continue to resuscitate hospitals and the whole system because otherwise it can't be, but I think it will be much better done in a way that decentralizes things and the hospitals return to the founders. Of course these founders can't cover their debts without cooperation with the Ministry of Health, but that certainly isn't the intention of this law. So don't talk about political shifts because it's exactly what you did three years ago, and we're now returning to the county hospital, so it's not in all HDZ counties in power or coalition partners, there's a county where others are in power. So this time, it's not just political personnel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6502	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6503	Your honorary representative, you're in contradiction, you say he'll return to the founder and then the founder will ask the Ministry or HZO to give him the money to settle your debts. So isn't it logical that he who is the founder is relieving his debts like the City of Zagreb? And no one forced Koprivnica-Crying County to say that we're entering this law, no we're not going to go into rehab, we're going to resuscitate the losses ourselves in the county. You can't, so that's clear to you, and I told you here's an example of the carlova County, I'm sorry I didn't look at the koprivnica-crossing, your budget can't handle the costs of that hospital. So that's why it went into this recovery. It is therefore the founders who are concerned that the hospital is functioning and that people are being treated and that debts are therefore being recovered. If you can't do that then you have to... As far as the doctor is concerned, there's no reason why people left, there's more. [[You don't understand.]] Since it has always been that Zagreb has bought part of the people, people in Zagreb have been hired especially anesthesiologists because anesthesiologists are very wanted on the market because there are not many. Therefore, this is not the reason for this recovery but is therefore the process that has been going on in Croatia for a long time, and I hope that the efforts of all and this House will make it possible for doctors to stay in Croatia and that we have more specialization from the branches that we miss.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6504	Thank you. The last replica is the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6505	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mrsic, you say that from the creation of the Republic of Croatia to the present day, there have been 6 or 7 reforms, i.e. the rehabilitation of health care, and that none of them have been successful until the end and that new health duebiosis has been re-emerged. And that this is how it was completed and completed and this recovery that was made since 2012. But you claim that there were those who did business rationally, transparently and who moved in those facilities where they managed. So, since the minister may have been able to, these are your words, between the sanity managers, to see which is how business and perhaps keep it, and to change where it's not good to change. Perhaps I could agree with that myself, but then in the same way I should say in your logic why in 2012, when the law was passed in all the districts in which HDZ managed, we changed the directors of hospitals? Well, I guess there were some among them, as you claim, who did business transparently, rationally, and perhaps he didn't deserve a shift at the time, but he was still cleaning up all those directors in hospitals in the districts where HDZ operated. And secondly, you're saying that you'd be happier if Mr. Minister had provided with this bill an analysis of the recovery, that we had financial effects, that we knew exactly how much debt was reduced by certain hospitals and that it was the basis for law-making. And I would remind you that this argument states that it is the State Office for Auditing in its 2015 Work Report that the objectives of the recovery of health care relating to the implementation of deadlines, the fulfilment of monetary obligations in the deadlines laid down by law and the reorganisation and rationalisation of business in order to ensure business stability have not been achieved. That's all I'm done with. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Although significant funds have been spent to resuscitate the health care institutions and the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance have been spent because they have reached the obligations of the rehabilitated health institutions and the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance and continue to be significant. Therefore, we had as parliamentary representatives a basis for discussing what you were talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6506	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6507	So esteemed counterpart Bačić that you read the 2008 review report when Honored counterpart Milinovic also worked on reform and put five billion into the system then, then the audit report was the same. So, that the recovery that was made in previous years has not been successful because the financial recovery without change, both in transparency and in algorithms, in ways of handling, in raising the effectiveness of primary health care, that primary health care solves 70% of the cases and not 50% of our losses again. So if the state audit find lacks the most important part and let's see which hospitals, how long, since, when did those losses happen? Or not, which is why they happened. You can't generalize in a way that all are equal, one hospital has one problem, the other has other problems. So, these are all the sanity managers and they did so so that I hope the minister will at least give us some sort of review from where it was done and how it was done. I note that the resolution managers who failed to carry out their duties, who continued to accumulate losses, were replaced, came new resolution managers who received the result. You have clinical hospital centers, all four, which are operating at this point rationally and do not accumulate losses. But on the other hand, we have a hospital that still piles up losses, and that's not only a problem for people who run those hospitals, but it's a problem and structures, employees, salaries, and what those hospitals are doing, but it's the second part of the resolution that we need to agree on how we're finally going to do it because this system has to be maintained, it's the backbone of the social state in Croatia. If we do this, if we go into the Americanization that whoever has more money, more money to get better healthcare, that they will have something above the standard that has nothing, they will not get the same thing, we will destroy the social state and that is the most valuable that this Croatia has. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6508	Here's a word from Dario Nakic, Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6509	So here's the respect when we're actually talking here I'm glad that this law is actually about recovery, or more importantly, it's a health system that's caused a lot of attention because it's really important to us, it's of great importance. And so let us make it possible for the social category that all our citizens can actually get a health care service. If we continue the way it is now, so we're talking about the financial way, when the system that was in losses and in it is 3.5 billion kunas are being recovered. And within two years, so after a 3.5 billion kuna recovery came back into new debt and at this point it is 2.5 billion kuna. In this way, in five years, a logical question would be asked to whom we can provide and provide a health care service. So what would happen to our citizens, what kind of situation would we be in? It's clear to me that it's not enough to amend the Sanitation Act itself. For the system to be stabilised, it will be necessary to implement system reorganisation. In order to implement system reorganisation, you must have people and reform measures that will be ready to respond to this request. Why are we talking about recovery? So the recovery at the time of the 2013 recovery was 2 billion and 100 million kuna. 3.5 billion kuna is invested in the recovery today, not today, but 31.12. Again, these debts are billions and 830 and today are 2 billion, over 2 billion and 100 million kunas again. Here's what I'm going to say to the clinical hospital, so it's not good that we're talking about data that are actually unverified and incorrect and may actually seem very malicious. KBC Zagreb, 2013 outstanding debts 223 million kuna. The rescue invested 671 million kuna. Today, therefore 671 million kuna is invested. Today, debts in KBC Zagreb amount to 456 million kuna. So, I can't understand the math that's much more than clear that, despite that, we've had less debt that we've recovered, solved with a lot more money, now we have even more debt. Well, it's not a logic that tells us that it's leading us to ruin, that it's not good. Let's move on. Here's not only KBC Zagreb, let's go KBC Sisters of Mercy. 103 million... We will also go to Rijeka, 103 million kunas which amounted to debts, 104 million kunas in 2013 invested in the 264 million kuna system, today's debt amounts to 135 million kuna. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Again more than when they were rescheduled, in the meantime, she made a recovery. Where's the end of it? KBC Split. So KBC Split amounted to 118 million kunas, rehabilitated, therefore invested in the recovery of 315 million kunas, debts amounting to 184 million kunas... The General Hospital of Zadar, which is here on several occasions mentioned. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 74 million kunas of debt, 31.12.2013, recovered 144 million kunas, now amounts to a new 35 million kunas. So no health care facility, none of them had a positive business behind it. Some institutions have only succeeded compared to 2014 and that was the only one that was in the recovery and that was KBC Rijeka. The one and only. So in 2014, she created a big new debt. Only those new debts managed to be reduced in 2015. Neither in 2015 nor in 2015 was able to reduce debts. Well, I think it's more than clear here what's really about. So this kind of financial system isn't sustainable. I didn't call directly all the renaissance managers who participated in this that each of them contributed individually, part of it is the system, part of it is the way of payment. We all here know well that the way to pay and finance health care institutions doesn't go out of the county. They never paid for their health care facilities. This goes from the state budget, i.e. from HZZO, partly from the state budget, partly from decentralised funds, partly from their own revenues. But I think it's clear to all of us that this system is unsustainable. Why did the law have to do this and need to go by emergency procedure, among other things, because of reform measures? So I'm going to say, the current hospital administrations are the moment I asked to be given a report on new employment, referring only to the period from 8.11. to 22.1.2016, so only at a time when we have a technical government. 800 new employees have been employed indefinitely in the health care system. Of these 300 was transferred from certain to undefined and 500 completely new employees. One large part and the most significant part was that it was an unhealthy staff. If this is a responsible business, if we can come and guarantee that we will not budget, so we do not have in the budget, and we will have two and a half billion kunas planned to resuscitate the system. We won't. Because Croatia is at the limit of the excessive deficit and Croatia actually has to learn within the health system to pay back the money we have. So, we intend to pay back the money, we intend to pay back two and a half billion kuna by the end of 2018 by streamlining the system and by achieving savings within the system, not by new borrowings because it's just a pile of government debt. All of this is clear that we will need reform measures, so not only this amendment to the Rehabilitation Act, or recovery. But in order to do that, so to do that, you have to make all the preconditions to get to that goal. The Sanitation Act, or recovery of hospitals, clearly failed to achieve its goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6510	Thank you, Minister. We have a few replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Davor Penic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6511	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, a colleague of the Minister. You have generally estimated that the reform failed because no health care institution in your opinion has done well and that it is seen from the audit report. But that same review report shows that 10 hospitals, and I'm going to read them now that they've been doing the performance level, let's say in 2013, they dropped the deficit to 54%, 2014 and 2015, not 2014. 54%, 2015. 57% and that's it. And in 2015 they picked up, I mean that math is not good, and then I'll explain why this math in health isn't good. In 2015 KBC Rijeka, General Hospitals Čakovec, Karlovac, Koprivnica, Pula, Sibenik, Varazdin, Zabok and both health homes Petrinja and Gospić performed positively in this year, well in 2015. You're talking about generating losses. The health system has generated a loss of 17.4 billion over the last 20 years, and this loss is generated by more causes. One of the reasons a colleague also told Dr. Miranda that our population is getting older, that the drug use is increasing by 10% per year. By applying new therapeutic procedures, the education of doctors who will conduct and purchase instruments that will raise the level of health care, the health system to a higher level is spent on money. It is another thing that our economy cannot monitor the development of the health system, is the problem. But you've passed an emergency law, you've passed a law by emergency procedure, you've bypassed a normal, regular procedure in which you might also hear the voice of the public, which will tell if he's satisfied with the system. But given the funds invested, it is essential of some colleagues to talk about the work of a doctor. Croatian health care is top-notch in terms of investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6512	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6513	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you said that the debt in health care is two and a half billion kuna. Well, I'm saying it's a lot bigger, and that's why I'm suggesting that you ask your associates to make a list of all the ones they've earned, not the commitments they've made, and that they sign it. For anything that comes in after that, let them punish and finish the story. And I guarantee you that in these two and a half billion kunas no one has given you an account from Croatian hospitals where Croatian doctors have treated Croatian citizens and now someone will not pay them. So it is nowhere to be seduced, and Croatian doctors have done their job fairly. Why wouldn't that 700 million be paid if someone had told them before that they could do it? Therefore, these 2 and a half billion I am responsible for telling you here, add freely at this time 700 and add a billion kuna and you will come at this time that the Ministry of Health in that part of the budget and the Croatian Health Insurance Office have earned over 4 billion kuna commitments. We are not talking about long-term obligations that have a completely different status. And that's a fact, and that's why I repeat it. Ask your associates whether they're new or old, have them make you a list and sign it. Because I think what we're fighting here for political reasons is that there's no point anymore, that we finally need to know what kind of situation Croatian health is in, and that we also bring in that we can finance it with so much and so much, otherwise we're going to keep fighting, and the health care is going to be the way it is. And the logical thing is, and that's where we agree, I don't think it's disputed that human health and treatment is something that you can't limit. It's something that's more expensive from year to year. Is that the problem of the pharmaceutical industry, of this, of that, but we simply have to be prepared, and we won't be able to solve it until we know what our situation is in the house today.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6514	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6515	Thank you very much. The Honorable Mr. Minister has only provided partial information that fits him. I'd be happier if we had all the data, especially if we had data for 2015 where the results of the recovery started to be visible. It is logical that immediately at the start of the recovery, so when the measures that go with that recovery, so transparency, DTS, increase the efficiency of primary health care, public procurement, united public procurement, these are measures that give their effects somewhere behind. Therefore, it is necessary to wait and see the effects, and the effect in 2015 is seen. And I'm sorry we don't have that information. On the other hand, the minister announces there will be no recovery, that 2.5 billion will be found within the budget. And what does that mean? This means that we will not treat people, that we will not have new methods, that we will not have new medicines and that the level of health care in Croatia will fall. The health system generates a billion and 200 million kunas each year, 100 million a month. And that's since health care, that's how it is. What we need to discuss and think about how to reduce these 100 million to a bearable level that the state budget can endure. Therefore, we are saying that with budget savings, we are going to resuscitate the losses that will be because it simply has to be known 100 million a month is unprotected in health care. Does this mean less treatment, less medication, less chance of getting to a doctor. It should not be because it will lead to a decrease in the level of health care in Croatia and I do not think it is in anyone's interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6516	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Dario Hrebak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6517	Dear Minister, I'm glad you decided to make changes like this. We will personally support such a proposal to amend the law. However, I must also point out and I am glad that you, too, are aware of your distinguished colleagues and colleagues, we will not only do this amendment to the law by practically changing the bed and healing the patients. Our health system is in major problems, our health system will not be resolved by changing left policy or by changing right policy, our health system can only be improved in a way that makes real reform of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. We need a stronger economy that will fill the health budget much better. But what is also more important is that the reform of primary health care really 70 to 80% of patients process in general practice, not that doctors of general family practice are stimulated to send each patient to the hospital for specialist examinations. And most of all, we need to invest in prevention. Waiting lists can be easily solved in a way that patients never come to the hospital at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6518	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Darko Paric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6519	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, a brief replica, Mr. Secretary is not listening. I'd ask you to stop time if we're going to replicate to Mr. Secretary Order would be willing to listen to us. Thank you. No, not only do you continue, I'm communicating with the minister. No, it's really not right to replicate to Mr. Secretary and if he talks, you understand. ... Everything's fine. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Very briefly, Mr. Minister, you said you were planning to repay more than 2 billion kunas of dues. You said you were planning to go into reform. Unfortunately, listening to everything you've exposed many numbers speak for what you're saying, they're saying that you really need to do something. But frankly speaking to me as an agent only leaves me to take your word for it. I would be as a representative really much happier that before this bill we will not say we get on the table but see and hint or that somewhere you have publicly communicated the reforms in which you are going to do such a thing because essentially this law, or the bill that lies before us, is nothing but the future shift of the people you agree with, does not lead to the reforms that you want to go through but only leads to changes of people. So I'd like to ask you to hear a little bit more about the reforms on how you think all of this is going to work out so that the draft of this law makes a little more sense. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6520	The Honorable Minister will answer, but he listened very closely to you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6521	So here's why I'm sorry about this little dissonance at the very beginning about explaining some data, but here's what I'm going to say, so I'm going to explain. What's happening right now, actually happened all the time, as far as the recovery was concerned, was the extension of the payment deadlines. Well, you actually have certain institutions to pay at 1,000 days certain bills with a delay. This, of course, causes instability within the system and I believe that we are all aware and that not only will the amendment of the Restitution Act lead to us saying that the system will improve. It is actually the beginning of the story of the reform measures that we have announced. I think that so far I have publicly announced the reform of the Emergency Medical Service that will go very quickly, so within now less than 2 months of speaking, the reform of the health care system, the reform of the hospital healthcare system, the reform of primary health care, the reform of non-medical services. Only I believe that you are deeply aware that it is not possible to implement this in five days, that you must actually prepare the whole field or get the most accurate information first so that you can take the right measures to have any effect. So, really reform, but here I am, and I realize that today is not a Parliament time or a topic where we talk about reform measures, but about amending the Restitution Act, so I didn't even put them here specifically.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6522	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Ana Komaračić Devčić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6523	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, Mr. Minister, you just mentioned in your statement that the Rijeka Clinical Hospital Center is not generating new losses. Did I get that right? Therefore, at the place of Director or Sanacia Director at the Clinical Hospital Centre since 2015 there is Prof. A squishy. I'm going to make his name very clear and it's a non-party professional, so it doesn't belong to any of the parties and it's clearly proved to be a good manager. The model of KBC Rijeka should simply be applied to all other hospitals. So you just need to see what Professor Stimac did not make new losses and apply it to other hospitals. And I deeply hope that these changes, Mr. Professor. The gear won't be removed from the director's post. And one more thing I'd like to warn you, you said the county doesn't finance hospitals. And so you said, you must be careful what you say. I just want to warn you that, for example, the Primorje-Gorski County, which is not the founder of KBC Rijeka, is very much investing in KBC Rijeka, which is the founder of the state. I have to mention, and the city of Rijeka has been investing a lot in a clinical hospital center all these years. So where aren't the founders. And we are now in this law, so general hospitals are returning to the counties with all the debts they have and to the counties we transfer these same debts... Because there are founders, they become judges. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Whether you make a deal tomorrow and split the debts between the county and the state in which, how, we'll just see. But at this point, according to this model that's being put before us, we're transferring debts to the founder. Because the founder is simply a judge. Whether this will lead to a reduction in health care in these areas, to a decrease in quality, whether it will lead to a halting of some projects in these counties, we will only see that. First, we need to see what your agreement will look like and what the criteria will be.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6524	I'm asking you all to stick to the weather. The Honorable Minister will respond, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6525	Here I am pleased that you have noticed that the administrative council will actually decide on this, conduct the competition, select those people at the head of these institutions that will guarantee the best results for the functioning of these institutions. So I didn't show myself here individually about any case, even more than ever, the only one I singled out that they had a positive business was that. So from the position of one place and one center, we don't want to affect that we determine from one place which people will be at the head of these institutions because it's not a good principle. Because from here on out in Zagreb or from here on out, we don't know what the best situation is in every single institution in the entire country. So here's your proposal. And this law is just going that way for it to really be that way. Otherwise hospitals are actually financed in a way that sets the limit for them in agreement with the Ministry of Health, are financed through HZZO, are financed partly from both participations and supplementary health insurance, are financed from other own funds. It is desirable that the counties and cities are more involved in donating and equipping these institutions because they thus raise the quality of health at their level, if I am not just talking about returning to founders who should be interested in their institution being as good as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6526	Thank you very much. The next debate is on behalf of the club of representatives of the Most and will be addressed by the distinguished representative IES STRENJA-LINIĆ. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6527	Thank you, well-respected chairman, Your Honor. Before I started this presentation, I would refer to this and it is those who have been following my performances for the last 6.7 years in the County Assembly of Primorje-goranska I can remember the SDP appeal and their coalition to invest more in KBC Rijeka and especially when I realized that the local community only in Zadar hospital had collected 55 million kuna and invested in this Zadar hospital and we had to pray, and in the end, after endless investment only in its county institutions had invested in the KBC after the rebel applications, which the doctors in KBC and which we doctors, the patients in KBC actually treated if they were not ours from the Primorje-Gorski County. And I'm very unhappy with how much the County of Primorsko-Gorski invested in KBC. Last year, she invested 3.5 million kunas for the reconstruction of only facades, an oncological clinic that was in catastrophic condition and we know what patients are like there so that the local community can do more, especially those that are as well-capitated as the Primorje-Gorski County. KBC Rijeka absolutely and all support efforts because obviously management is the one that can do something good. And now I'm going to start with my exposure, this was just my remark. Therefore, the system of health care financing is a central place in the functioning of the health system. There is no state in the world that can fully provide all its inhabitants with all the benefits they can and enable the most modern medicine but we must try. And that's our message, now this ruling size that health care will be at this level, that that's the last thing we agree on and what we're going to fight for because that's what we have to provide for our citizens. So the general lack of financial resources in health care... Health consumption is considered a difficult problem in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The health care system in Croatia has passed over the past period since the independence of the Croatian state has been a number of reforms that have been fundamentally aimed at optimising the level of health care provision with the real financial opportunities of the Croatian economy but you know how difficult this is. The objectives of each reform procedure were partially achieved but the solutions offered so far or all the resolutions carried out over the last 10 years were necessary, however, did not result in improved operating conditions. We remember all the big news signs from 2003, the biggest recovery in history. To remind 2013 it is therefore decided to start the process of recovery and to be implemented for the inability to cover the resulting losses and to meet the monetary obligations in the legally established deadlines in order to achieve financial stability and to strengthen responsibility in the management and to increase the quality and efficiency of the activities of the health institution. That's what it said. And I will once again mention one of the problems he made and my noun. So he reduced his health contribution from 15 to 13%, leading to an additional deficit in our cash register from as much as 4 and a half to 5 billion kuna. We can't forget that. So, the ministry was convulsing in debt, debts piled up for years, and so one of the main problems of indifference was actually a completely irrational number of hospitals that we just didn't capacitate that we could serve in this country. And that's what's actually the same big problem. Master's plan didn't revive him, so Minister Varga tried to modify him, so he didn't revive him. We need to clearly tell us we need the number of hospitals that are optimal for this population, but some hospitals at 10, 15 km away just don't make sense. Because in this area, we can't give citizens what they really need. Is it better that he rides 15 minutes longer or has an inadequate hospital that cramps and generates debts to himself for 10 km or a mile from his house? We need to make it perfectly clear which hospitals are needed to remain functionally connected, which means you will not have an inadequate urological unit in three adjacent hospitals, but in one hospital you will have a good urological department with quality experts. In these two others that are very close to having a urological clinic. When we present this to our citizens and they will be for it, because in this urological department they will also be able to get better diagnostics and better quality experts and specialists who will be able to further subspecies education in the direction in which they need more adequate assistance. So when we explain it in a clear way to our citizens, they will certainly support it. That way, I can only get quality health care. So, they were all down, and we said that it was promised within a few months we'd have a payment deadline of up to 60 days and it's been proposed to resuscitate 9 clinical hospitals and that should have been pursued, to be difficult about 1.9 billion kuna. Then 25 other health institutions in the county hospitals and 1.13 billion. The rest of the debt was 2 billion for HZZO debt to institutions and suppliers. And what happened then, which is now imploding that this law will happen, then the Restitution Act is the first time since the democratic Croatian state has not conducted the election and competition for the selection of directors of institutions but are the same appointed decree from the Government and the Ministry, without the plan and programme of work even the resume of those persons who led those institutions. It was a political shift. So, what's the status today? The three-and-a-half billion kuna recovery has proved unsuccessful since hospitals have made new debts of 1.8 and, as we heard from the minister and more, it means 2.1 billion kuna. Despite the proceedings carried out by the hospital institution, they continue to record commitments of more than 180 days of kuna 418 million and 21% of total commitments made on 31.12.2015 and even 114 million kunas of commitments exceeding 365 days. Rehabilitation of hospital institutions, therefore implemented on the basis of fundamental law, the Law on Restitution for the Change of Governance Structure means he wanted these institutions to be rehabilitated, completely restructured and to continue to operate more balancedly. With this law, management rights of health care institutions have moved to all local self-government except for the Holy Spirit Clinical Hospital, Gospić General Hospital and Ogulin General Hospital. What the indicators are, means the State Audit find showed none of the basic objectives of the Rehabilitation Act are met. Therefore, the total commitments on 31.12. 2012 compared to 31.12.2015 were 15.32% higher than at the start of the recovery. So, debts are 15% higher for clinical hospitals in Croatia. The total liabilities of general hospitals are less than 34%, and when all of the hospitals in Croatia are all together, so other than special hospitals when it's said how long it was compared to now it's 7 and a half percent less, and we've beaten three and a half billion kunas. It should therefore be noted that hospitals were not fully restructured during this period and were not placed in a position to operate. True, getting out of HZZO from the Treasury, the situation is still starting to improve, and we are still for it absolutely that HZZO must be outside the State Treasury. Most hospitals began to improve their results, slowed down the generation of new commitments but not enough to say that the goal of balancing income and expenditure at the annual level was achieved. Thus, these figures point to the conclusion that the Restitution Act failed to meet its basic objective, and that it is therefore necessary to put it beyond the power and hospital to return it to the founder. The upcoming ruling structure of Croatian health care has put a major challenge at the moment. How to solve decades of accumulated problems of Croatian health care which today represent a hole of 2.1 billion kuna. A maintains the basic principles of the Health Protection Act, i.e. Ensure availability, continuity, comprehensiveness and solidarity of health care and keeping in mind that a law on the implementation of the state budget and the Law on fiscal responsibility has been introduced. It's final. I can say that the complexity of health policy of Croatia is extremely large, the system has been and remained subject to an uninterrupted series of reform procedures and, as already stated, the cost pressures in health are long-term and very dangerous. They are linked to increasing opportunities and expectations of healthcare with unfavourable demographic processes. We know that our population is getting old and we know that there are fewer who are paying contributions from which we have to pay for a complete health system. An effective health system means maximum quality at minimum costs. But can the Croatian health system find a solution to how the same means gain more value or how the same benefit for less money by changing the process. Finally, it is clear that debt cannot be recovered from this budget. It's clear that we can't do it with that dynamic as we'd like. I hope we can set up the system, but I also say once again that healthcare debts can only start to return if GDP growth starts, or when the obligations arising from the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, according to which every year the state pays for those who cannot pay for themselves 2.1 billion kuna, and in fact the real amount would be 4.24 billion kuna. That's what the state doesn't actually pay HZZO. That's where we have all those groups of our population, the populations for which the state should be paid under the laws for which it freed them. So, just a brief review of the doctors. Of course, doctors are the bearers of our health system. And once again, I would like to mention the past health administration has done nothing to prevent this from happening in the past four years. You must know that over the past four years, 15% has dropped the number of specialists in our hospitals. In 4 years, the administration has not withdrawn any measures to reduce the departure of our doctors, and doctors do not leave because of low wages, leave for other reasons and have not wanted to hear them for the past 4 years. I hope that with this health administration we can have a slightly different way of talking, not just denying that doctors have the right to negotiate their rights on their own. So there are currently 2.5 thousand doctors missing, hospital specialists, and we are far from what thousands of people need, as the EU average is. Doctors are looking for better working conditions, looking for the possibility to work towards some European standards of diagnostic therapy, to treat our patients according to what is a European standard and to fight for some rights more humanely, fairer progress, the possibility of privileges that will somehow leave them to remain in this system again. If we are not treated by Croatian doctors, I wonder who will? And they're ready to go. As I say, no more kunas need to be singled out for their wages, but some other things need to be changed differently. So far, the administration has not taken care of it, and I hope it will be a little better in this next period, I hope. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6528	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused several replicas. The first one is the distinguished MPs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6529	Yes, my colleague, you're right, and I am proud to point out that during the former government, Zadar Hospital received 120 million kunas. I hope that you, as a representative who comes from Rijeka, will provide it if necessary for the Rijeka. And whenever the SDP coalition was in the power of Zadar, it was given the most in spite of what was different. But Zadar never got to the harm of others but got what belonged to him. And thanks to the good management and the manager of the rescue, it's very well-returned in order to reduce debts. And everyone else, I'm going to repeat, who could, and they're allowed to use economic postulates of sustainability and growth, they're starting to get hospitals out of debt. And that's how she did it, I believe it's you because MOST strongly supports non-partisan and professional, so we have to have it in Zadar. Will you protect her? Because these are relevant objective data. Unfortunately, however, this law has not been seen, here is the minister himself speaking, and has not yet presented his plan and programme for health care, but we have a law that has not passed what needs to be passed through the Rules of Procedure consulting with the interested public, but here we are discussing how to replace everything and it is not good. Every time, leave those, then two three who were good. Change these others, change them. However, in Zadar's Kaleragi already, it says there will be a contest, it is already said who will be or Dr. Dukic or Dr. Chulina. They were alive and seen.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6530	The distinguished representative Strenja-Linić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6531	I'm glad, I had information that Zadar got 55 million, and it's a good thing he got 110 from the local community. That's what you actually need. ... Yeah, then it's 55 million kuna, then it's my local community data. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Look, you're saying the Zadar Hospital was always getting more when the SDP was in power. I will fight to get all the hospitals, and I will support all those that all hospitals get as much as on the basis of results and based on what needs are in terms of reconstruction, improvement in diagnostics and all that is needed in every hospital. So, at some point, it's going to be said that a hospital is privileged. No, there's gonna be a good plan of what's needed to invest, and those hospitals are gonna get it. Maybe you're thinking political shifts because that's when it happened at the start of the rescue. I am convinced that the minister will think very much about who worked well and will have support there. It means that one who has worked well and who shows that he can positively run a certain hospital that such directors have the opportunity to present their program and then, based on all those who give their programs, he chooses himself as someone who has suggested and has clear indications that he can lead the hospital further. So there will be a public tender and after that we hope that they will choose, we stand for it, those who will be the best of quality. Whether there will be former directors among them if someone has shown that they have a tendency to lead well and in some way to capture what was lost in the first year of the recovery I hope that such people will be able to present a good programme and remain directors, but now as real directors rather than reassurance.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6532	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative Ana Komaračić Devčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6533	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues Strenja, you have now compared Zadar, as much as Zadar, or Zadar County, the local community invests in the Zadar hospital compared to the County and the city of Rijeka compared to the KBCs. What's important is to point out that KBC is the founder of the state, it's a state hospital. We have Osijek, Rijeka, Split, Zagreb. These are the hospitals the state invests in. And I have to invest in the state because they're the founders. And they must be the same investment, not the most in Zagreb. What happened in Rijeka and what our hospital looks like, you know better than I do is systematic neglect of KBC Rijeka. The county is the founder of its hospitals, the valotherapy of Opatija, Crikvenica, Lovran and the home of health. I haven't seen any of these institutions in a recovery. It means that the County of Primorje-goranska is very good at taking care of its health institutions and should remain that way. If there is an surplus of funds after the county has settled all its obligations, then let it invest in KBC Rijeka as well. But primarily the one who should invest in KBCs is a state, evenly that no matter where health care is available in Croatia, not that we have the best health care in Zagreb and then we who are in other parts of Croatia have what we have. Here's what I stand for. And I'm asking you to support me in that way to be equal to all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6534	Thank you. The distinguished representative Strenja-Linić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6535	I love these questions very much, and in these matters I have come forward many times because I leave that KBC for example. This one in Rijeka is someone who needs to be financed only by the state we've come into a situation where KBC is now, currently in the building. Rijeka medicine is a top medicine, and it's been happening in the last year since she's been the hospital's director, and that's obvious to everyone. But it's also incomprehensible to me, and I've talked about it several times that it's investing in a county facility where only 39% of the citizens of the Primorje-Gorski County, 50 million kuna in 10 years, 39% of the patients in the Primorje-Gorski County are being treated in the Rab psychiatric hospital. The county invests 50 million and 5 other counties whose patients are in that hospital do not invest a zero kuna. And then you have a state-of-the-art facility, but you have a KBC with down buildings, with inadequate sanitary facilities, etc. I cannot accept that the counties that are more financially powerful will invest in their institutions that will be top-level county and general hospitals and KBC in that part will be very poor. Look at the state Osijek is in. Osijek needs a new hospital. Osijek is in a situation where it is urgent to invest, now there is a big investment, I am familiar with projects of small, united reception. So we have to think differently. Local environments as much as they may need, but they don't only need to favour their own institutions, but KBCs are somebody's. Absolutely. We expect yours, too, because you're in power in the Primorje-Gorski County to start thinking a little differently about KBC because he's nobody, he's out of all of us, and he's treating patients from 3.4 surrounding county and not just the Primorje-Gorski.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6536	Thank you very much. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6537	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Strenja-Linić, here's the future, I hold you now, shortly before you said you would personally take up equipment and raise the level of quality in all hospitals. Here I call upon you to talk immediately after this debate with Minister Nakic to return the project financed by EU funds from the competitiveness of the cohesion for the equipment of the operational block, central sterilisation and day-to-day surgery, the daily hospitals at Virovitica General Hospital. The contest was already in the final stage. And I'm asking him, too, and I'm asking you to talk to him about continuing this project because it's very important for Virovitica General Hospital. What I would like to warn you, you said, you mentioned here political decrees, when we talk about this hospital system, in general, the health system cannot be avoided except for this functional, rational sphere, we cannot avoid the political sphere. You see when they are, the county councils have decided that hospitals go to rehab. So to them, they didn't have to do it if they didn't want to. They did it. Even the County Assembly of Virovitica-Podravska County has made it very difficult, in the end it has made that decision because for the county, too many debts have been created in that hospital and this job that certain people have accepted, in this case it is science, doctor, my colleague Marijana Zivko, who is her career, everything she knows in life to deal with the problems of the hospital. And after that, you know what happened to her? The stone was thrown at her on the street because Mayor Tolusic was the current minister of hoarding people, speaking, when we talk about functional mergers, saying that she was with me that we were gravers of Virovitic hospitals. And every process, believe me, when we talk about functional mergers, when we talk about rationalizing costs, when we talk about eliminating certain departments in people, it's fear. And then especially if politicians make their irresponsible statements even more pronounced then these things happen. And yet another situation, the new hospital building built with funds from the business bank and Mayor Tolusic at the time did not want to pay the amount from decentralised funds to hospitals because the recovery was conducted by the state. Here, thank you. I'm sorry I overstepped.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6538	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Tulio Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6539	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues of Strenja-Linić, in your speech and said that counties, i.e. The units of local and regional (regional) self-government can do more. I'm going to ask you a question based on what you're saying. And I'll only tell you that 10 years ago in Istria County for the rehabilitation of the General Hospital in Pula County raised a 10m-euro loan that still comes back today. We also have an agreement with the units of local self-government and the county how to build a new municipality, the hospital, and we also co-finance it. But you say we can do more as powerful counties. We could when those resources we make more end up in the Republic of Croatia's budget and they come back to us on crumbs. We know that the Istrian County is creating a surplus income in the fund in the joint budget of the Republic of Croatia with over 800 million and now the question is, where do we have the 5% left to separate us from the local self-government. Even the minister said we have to invest to raise our own services to our citizens, but isn't it a lot when we're taking care of the emergency medical care, for hospitals, for schools, for the halls, for everything that's in the state's jurisdiction, and now you're saying we need to get back the founding rights. It's a form of decentralisation and I'll accept it. However, where there are financial resources that are also returning, obligations are returning to us and finances remain in the state. I think it's simply what you said that we can more think that we've already come to the limit of separation for what's in charge of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6540	Thank you. The distinguished representative Strenja Linic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6541	A colleague... I agree with you and actually my county along with yours is another one that actually gives more to the central register than what comes back. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I know about your steps, and I agree with you that fiscal decentralisation is also something that is absolutely waiting for us, but I can also tell you that the Pula Hospital must go further and the pulse hospital is something after all these years and waiting which will simply reduce that pressure that at the Clinical Hospital in Rijeka and has its place and we need to get and there a modern hospital just needs an even better staffing which is also a big problem. I'm familiar with that situation over there. But I also have to tell you that local environments have succeeded, some part of the county, but large powerful companies in the area have been able and have done very much in some parts of Croatia in terms of assistance and financial coverage of certain debts, i.e. the equipment of certain institutions, and can only be an example. Such examples were also in the Primorje-Gorski County but this was headed towards Talasotherapy in Opatija, and then bought a top-notch, magnetic resonance. Local units also signed the contract, organised and bought a top-notch mangency resonance for the Talasotherapy of Opatija. It can be if these units of local self-government are still capacitated so that one part of their resources can be donated and that's good. Better than paying for a single trip, a kitchen or a small ward in some hospitals. You can if you want to. So, the units of local self-government by signing a particular joint agreement collects one larger amount of money and then completely do something in the larger amount of one health institution. That's what I'm appealing to. I know that the county where they're in a situation, I know that you're paying more into the state budget, that it still takes a part of it and to come back. You have all my support and that the pulse hospital ends as soon as possible because it will be good for all citizens and Pula and the surrounding areas, as well as for the whole of Istria, which now mostly engraving KBC Rijeka.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6542	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Davor Penic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6543	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Linić Strenja, you said that you would call them some kind of administrative measures to prevent the doctor from leaving Croatia without giving them any material rights. It's some science fiction. In your explanation that wasn't the subject of today's debate but you scored a little populistly, you wanted to say as if you were going to give us doctors some kind of privilege. Whether these privileges apply to salaries or privileges in office. We know that we are not privileged in Croatian society, but to work for a naked dinar. Did you think you'd give us the privilege of making a new professional contract for doctors that the unions have already opposed? My advice is to encourage a debate on the working rights of doctors, on duty, on work by invitation, on how to reward them fairly. But you haven't had a discussion, an analysis that the structure of the doctor is leaving, which are doctors. Are they just finished doctors or finished experts? If they are experts then they go for material rights, because two, three years abroad will earn everything they have earned in Croatia. So the starting point in the analysis should be what is the structure of the doctor, which is the age structure, whether they have completed the specialization or before. But it's utopia to say you won't reward someone, and he hasn't solved up to some of the more significant years of adulthood he hasn't solved his rights in life. The existence hasn't been solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6544	Thank you very much. Let me remind you. In Croatia, it is not currency, it is kuna. But here you are, fellow Strenja-Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6545	It was my observation in response to what started to be said and it's not today's subject, but I have to answer you. Only in our country is the right of doctors to negotiate non-health, so the union most of which is members of those employees who are not health professionals. So, maids, technical staff and all those who aren't actually health personnel. Our rights are being negotiated by such a union and that's what's absolutely unacceptable and therefore doctors are looking for any way to do their rights, means the way they will work, the way they will progress, the way shifts will be organised, the way they will be able to work out of full-time. That's what the doctors want to talk to the minister about. And not to be negotiated by those who are not health professionals at all. If they were outsourcing they wouldn't have their own union at all because they wouldn't be in the hospital. And we as doctors said no, they should stay in the hospital, the maids should be ours, those are the ones they know well and know how to work in a health care facility. But there's more of them now. You must know that out of, what, 80 thousand health employees you have 7.5 thousand doctors. We're not representative. We're supposed to be 20%. So doctors don't ask for salary increases, but they're looking for time frames to know how much we're doing. There's no doctor who doesn't work overtime at the hospital because there's no one to do the job. They're looking for a normal way of progress, they're looking for an opportunity to work out of full-time. If I can go to the bar at night and do four hours and get paid, I can't do two hours in the afternoon and let me improve my status that way. So doctors don't ask for higher wages, they're looking for a normal way of progress in our system, a normal way of working, a normal captainate, all of it. Young doctors go away, doctors go with their families and children, with their wives and children means they go to continue their life in a foreign country and to continue to give what they have gained in this country to others. But they don't go easy, believe me, I know these colleagues. Last year it left in the first quarter of 60 young colleagues 30 years old. That's terrible! They're leaving, and they're not coming back. They're going as pensioners. And we can stop it with certain measures and hope that we can succeed.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6546	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Mayor.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6547	My colleague Linić, you pointed out an interesting thesis to which a colleague also referred, which is that it is not the primary motive of a doctor's salary as much as any other circumstances that encourage him to leave our country. The World Health Organization project, which has been under consideration in Yugoslavia since then, was on the trail, and the district was then represented by the city of Zadar, or the Zadar Municipality, with its approximately framework under consideration. And it has been found that our health care was then consumed by a doctor per capita 4 to 5 times more than in other countries, not necessarily with better health care. What does that really mean? More than us, he only consumed the Soviet Union, twice as much as we did, and most of all, Cuba because they had in every street doctor. What does that mean? If the doctor had been, and this may have partly been followed by an inert wolf, the doctor was a foothold of ideology. He could be spent as much as you want... and divided the people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And why, how and where? Most of the time, we know well how many administrative jobs basic school could do. We know that we've been doing nurses' jobs, so almost as much of the jobs as our experts have been trained to do. I agree with you if you properly distill the work of a doctor in the most professional sense properly deployed to find a large reserve where doctors with more satisfaction would work and probably with better rewards.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6548	Thank you. The distinguished representative Strenja-Linić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6549	And here I left out another large segment and these are other health workers, these are nurses who are also leaving in a large number. I skipped that, but that's one important part. Health bureaucracy and all the paperwork that both sisters and doctors are now doing, of course, can be transferred and the intensities are designed to reduce and work out those who are not healthcare professionals. But I also think as I said at this point 1,000 doctors have submitted papers and these papers will be solved because they have to pay certain fees, there is a certain procedure until all the certificates are obtained that can be gone outside. 1,000 doctors handed over the papers. We can still stop them. In Rijeka it was recently prevented to go as many anesthesiologists as it would have gone completely to a large part of stopping the regular program of operations and we prevented them from working beyond their full time. So there are certain measures that we can do, the health administration can immediately make, help both sisters and doctors to do something so that they can work with greater satisfaction so as not to be so overworked. I said no sister and no doctor who doesn't work overtime. Why? That this system of ours could support at all. But we all love our country, we want to stay in it, we want to treat our people, we just want this work to be recognized, not only by the PR methods from one pre-election campaign to another, so it's said doctors need to be penalized, so sisters need to be denied further education and such things. Because now we have a very low percentage of those who have higher schools, but we don't allow them to do that, etc. I hope we find opportunities to improve that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6550	Thank you very much, especially on this last one. Because we must not forget that there are 12,000 sisters missing from Croatia. And that's a rare thing to say. But now, on behalf of the HDZ club, the word will be taken by distinguished representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6551	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I actually had another concept of discussion but the debate so far made me change the concept of my debate on behalf of the club, remembering or recalling Lincoln's saying, "Some people can lie for a while, and not all people can lie all the time. Now, I'm going to try to get here those of you who want to show some of the recovery managers as successful, I'm going to try and get you and your SDP representatives to cheat all the time. I allow you to be deceived for a while but to be deceived all the time I will try to explain now. That's what I'm gonna start with. The hero of the Homeland War, Vesna Bosanac, who has been removed and who has been identified as the incompetent director of a heroic, heroic hospital in Vukovar. It's put on, I don't know if a lady or a gentleman has put in a new rescheduled manager. Now look, when the minister became Mr. Rajko Ostojić, and I think it is, and in fact, healthcare professionals agree, it is one of the darkest periods of the Croatian health system, the two 2012/2013. And you should say here, the other one of us are not running away from Varga to do some good things. Me and my colleague Mrsic spoke several times and I was unhappy that he was not a health minister because I was convinced he would be a better health minister. Remember Rajko Ostojic went to fight for mayor and the ministry was his second league. But, well, back to the heroin of the Homeland War, and that didn't stop you from degradeing it in an artificial way either. How? When I left or when we lost the election, when the SDP government won the Vukovar hospital had a budget of 8.6 million kuna and it was enough for her to settle her obligations without creating a new debt. What is the new Ministerial, or Health Administration doing? It reduces, watch this now, hear this well and especially you who want to show some recovery managers that they are successful. It reduces the budget of Vukovar Hospital from 8.6 to 5.2 million kuna. You know how much that is? 39%. Vesna Bosnian, heroine of the Homeland War, comes into a situation where she can't pay her wages just because she's short a million kunas. What's he doing? Every month, he raises a loan to the HPB, or PBZ, or anywhere, or a loan that he can pay his salary. And they've been holding her on that budget for a year. Vesna Bosnian, heroine of the Homeland War, in a year, of course, creates a new debt of 40 million kuna. Then comes the Resuscitation Act, Bartholomew Night in the health system. That's why I said I'd... I say so, I know, you put the plug but I'm like that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I mean, we can't change the way. Now, here comes Bartholomew night again in the health system. The witness of one Bartholomew night in health care was today’s President of the Assembly when 1018 people from the health system were removed in 2001 in one day. Well, we can't say that 1018 people were all incompetent. The second Bartholomew night comes on 29.11. on the day of the former Republic of Yugoslavia, I guess, so they replaced with this law 217 people from the health system. Now I'm going back to Vesna Bosnian again. In a year, that woman, the heroine of the Homeland War, had to make a new debt of 40 million kuna and was replaced because she was incompetent. Not respecting everything that woman went through in the Homeland War and successfully ran the Vukovar Hospital. There's a resuscitator coming. You know what's going on right now? The budget's coming back. The budget will return from 5.2 million kuna to 8.3 million kuna and Vukovar Hospital floor, but be careful under the sanitizer now works well. And it's this successful recovery manager who was artificially created and Vesna Bosanac was replaced. Sanitation Manager, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has rehabilitated Vukovar Hospital, I speak Vukovar Hospital, but so is 90% of the hospitals that have entered the recovery process. It was rescheduled, then Vesna Bosanac, made the truth because of these conditions of a 35 million kuna business, the 35 million kuna debt was recovered. Do you know how long the Vukovar Hospital is today? 40 million kuna. We're talking about a successful recovery director. The witness of the second Bartholomew Night in the health system is also the current minister who, from 23 million kuna, reduced the budget to 19 million kuna, almost 20% and then expected that Dario Nakic, then director of Zadar Hospital, will be successful. Well, he can't be successful. When you return the budget, listen, don't let them lie to you, you from SDP, yours, don't let them lie to you all the time, all people, all the time, don't give. I'll open your eyes today. So when the remand manager comes back, the budget that Dario Nakic had when he was the director, when I left and did not create new commitments. They're successful recovery directors. In last year's period, I think that what is important, the profession agrees, has marked, the health system has marked a reduction in what Mrs Ines Strenja-Linić spoke about, the centralisation of the health system, the lack of social dialogue, the humiliation of health workers and the emergence of waiting lists. The blackest period of the health system is '12th and '13th, I'll say again, Minister Varga, of course me and Schuker fought over it in the treasurery, outside the treasury, but these were equal discussions but Varga did, once again stressing good things, some good things in the health system. Well, if we hadn't done that talking here and... an example in the Primorje-Gorski County of Rijeka. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When I became a minister there, the director was Haller, whom I inherited from the SDP government. Right? I came there, saw business conditions, some agreed, some disagreed, but at that point I agreed and as a minister and it seemed to me that he was running a good health care system back then and I left him. So is this the best example that we didn't do what you did in 2001, or what you did in 2012 by passing this law. They're supplementing this law, so they're actually talking about the next fact. Your director of the Pula hospital said when this law was passed in the government and the ministry they did not analyse why so many debts were incurred due to poorly established restrictions. That's what I said before. So, your director of Pula Hospital, which is by the way we also haven't touched, said the debts were due to poorly established budgets. These poorly established budgets were reduced artificially only so that it could be accused. Who? Because the largest number of counties held HDZ to replace HDZ or not just HDZ but those close to democracy to declare them irresponsible, creating new debts, reducing them as I said budgets, they created a new debt, of course. There is no one in such conditions who would not create a new debt and, of course, under that cover have replaced them. You're saying that this law is already said by someone here, that this law was made only for the reason that the sanitizers and the Sanitation Councils were removed. And here's a little secret. Me and the minister, Minister, what are you waiting for with these shifts? They're incompetent people who are without a public tender just send me please, I know, I'm deep down here, who sends a resume who you are and what you are, and I'll say it later, no matter who you are and who you are, and who you become as a sanity manager. Well, I told the Minister what you were waiting for with this part of the incompetent sanity managers. He says yes, so be careful, they'd be the same as they are, and he's right. Well, if he wanted to, he had everything... to take shifts like you on one night 217 people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He didn't do it. We're going to change the law. Something will also be asked by the mayors who have not been asked about this law and the appointments of the Sanitation Councils, will now be asked about the mayors, will be asked about the founders, while the law is also anti-constitutional and contrary to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. So, said the minister. He didn't get the result. I fixed it on the board. He took the high score for which this law was passed, because they declared HDZ directors incompetent, artificially incompetent, and they changed everything they wanted to change. Now something about the conditions of what was called the Sanitation Council and the Sanitary Managers. I did not give Gospić the hospital, and now I am proud of it, I did not allow it to go under repair, although it is a lady hospital now that I mention the reduced budget by 38% and of course new obligations and new debts have been made during this period. But the home of health, now look at this, look at these staffs that are god- given to the SDP. The sanity manager of the House of Health, Gospić, has appointed a lady, I will not mention her name, economist, holding water. Let's just say it wasn't bad either, so hold that water. Do you know when she was replaced? When Nikola Maras, the president of the SDP of Gospić, came to the principal and said please join the SDP tomorrow. She didn't want to. You know why she didn't want to? I can't. I don't have time. Why don't you have time, where you are tomorrow, it's Sunday? I'm at church on Sundays. E didn't have time. You know what happened on Monday? They replaced her, their own. Check it out. Check with Nikola Maras the head of the City Committee of HDZ or with the lady I won't tell her the name, the SDP pardon, the SDP or the lady you named and which you didn't, let's say the economist wasn't bad. You know who's at the head of the Sanician Council now? Not demeaningly, it's not Nikola Maras, it's a traffic engineer's wife, with my deep respect for her profession. So, at a time when we're struggling with a variety of health system problems, I understand that you didn't have any better health care staff or anyone else, so here you have barely found an intellectual who's in SDP and a traffic engineer, a health care manager in Gospić. Now that's the piece that's the SDP's fin and the ruling coalition as a resolution manager. It was in this period about three o'clock, when I said this marked the period of this government's humiliation of medical personnel. Ines said, so the collective contract goes without talking, negotiations with doctors. And not just that. Remember what happened to the president of the Doctor's Union. Watch out after 25 years they opened a case for him there and he was processed, only because he rebelled because he took doctors on strike. Remember the statement. And I said then, the health minister then had to resign. One of the ministers in the Government of Zoran Milanovic said he will not tell us a doctor, and be careful that it is not about me or us or that you are concerned about all doctors in the Republic of Croatia who are various political activities. He said Minister Linic won't tell me anymore, and that's why the medical staff position is never worse than it was in the 12th and 13th. He said the doctors won't steal my state budget anymore. And the Minister of Health shuts up on that, shut up. So he has to tell or apologize to health care professionals, because I then invited him to apologize to health care professionals, to say that it is not so or to move away. And he didn't say. Why didn't he say "A"? Because he allowed the Minister of Finance then Linic to run his health system and not deal with the health system, as someone said at the time, he then jumped around some people as a squirrel. Ladies and gentlemen, I think this is a good decision, and I think this is a decision that will still offer the right people, people who know something about the health system and people who are going to be in control of the health system, which is that we are not creating new obligations. And there will be fights of course with old obligations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6552	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused a clogged number of replicas, so let's start from the beginning. She's the first one to be the esteemed representative of Angel Strike.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6553	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here I am, the introduction of my colleague Milinovic. I've asked to report for the replica. In fact, some people can be deceived for a while, but not all people can be deceived all the time. It is this debate today that colleagues and colleagues from the former Kukuriku coalition are heading towards the deception of the Croatian public, and they can prove it on the following example, which is the General Hospital in Varazdin. Lastly, on 25 April 2009, an agreement was signed on co-financing of a project to build and adapt the General Hospital of Varazdin and emergency hospitally united reception. Since 2009, Varazdin County has led Kukuriku officials, last 4 years the former government has led Kukuriku officials, and during that time there were no 110 million kunas to begin the construction of the Varazdin General Hospital or the building of surgery. And now after 7 years of County Kukuriku Authority 4 the state someone 100 is guilty of going to the doctor, of dropping the standard of patients General Hospital Varazdin, of not caring for the Varazdin County and not counting further. I therefore appeal to my colleagues from the Kukuriku coalition to make a public statement on this matter on the carelessness and non-building of General Hospital General Varazdin's surgery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6554	Here will be answered by distinguished representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6555	So as I said, they came when they took over the health system in difficulty because they really lost a billion kuna from the budget, with contributions they lost 2.5 billion kuna and the health system in just two years. And then, you're also a witness when we talked about processes or the possibility of investing in your hospital that was owned by the SDP and the Kukuriku coalition that we didn't, we talked about X times as a minister and you as one of the people in charge of implementing some kind of policy there we didn't make any difference between your county, no matter what you were in power, and any other let's say some HDZ County. But I guess just because I was the initiator and, together with you, the initiator of certain projects in your hospital, I guess just because there's no other reason, that was the only reason why the government was theirs, regardless of what they were in charge of and such processes. We hope that he will come to health for a better time and that he will not look closely at party interests when it comes to the health system.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6556	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6557	Thank you very much. My colleague Milinovic, I will also relate to your part where you spoke of lying. We have been listening for two months about the successes of the former SDP government here in the Parliament, the people have rewarded them with opposition status and we have seen that the State Review for these successes has given them a large number of negative opinions. Today we continue to listen to their health successes, and there were two ministers – Rajko Ostojić and Mr Sinisa Varga. I personally remember Rajko Ostojić for having a successful master plan in health care made for us by the Croats as far as I can remember for only 200,000 euros. And when they had to apply it, they realized that their digitron broke down, instead of saving out 400 million kuna that this master plan was creating a 2 billion-dollar loss. That better digitron had Mr. Sinisha Vargo. He was the same from the SDP and because he had a more correct digitron he became the new minister. From everything after a few months he said that famous sentence we saved Croatian health care. But not only that, then he found we have better health care than Sweden and Germany. And, of course, the exodus of Croats towards Sweden and Germany followed along with a large number of our doctors to repair their worse health system. And now we're waiting for the opposition to determine for this 4 billion-dollar debt, and I guess during the day it's going to be, that it's some level of statistical error that happens simply because of the great successes. And as the witnesses of Milanovic's recent statement took place, he said, "He was hanging around me like a cheerful squirrel. He got everything in the party and worse on the Rebr, whatever he wanted." Good thing Mr. Baldasar showed up and recently found that Goebbels had entered the SDP. I claim Goebbels to be a little baby for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6558	Thank you. The honourable representative Darko Milinovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6559	Well, if they had anything to brag about, most likely two former ministers would be here. That's the best indicator of why they're not here. Because they really don't have anything to brag about and I'm re-emphasizing, mainly in 2012, '13. So when this law was passed, he was represented by Ivo Jelusic. And here I have downloaded the phonogram, says the truth God we bring this law only because of the health system. So even then Minister Rajko Ostojic didn't dare come here because he had to explain 10.5 billion kuna of debt that was increased within 2 years. I'm stressing again today that Minister Varga could defend himself here because I'm stressing he's done some good things again. But it was hard to correct everything that was ruined before he came to that post. And remember, in fact, the relationship between the two main men in the health system. It's the director of HZZO and the minister. They didn't talk. So the health system cannot simply survive under such conditions and cannot function. And then Ivo Jelusic, he's gone too today, you see everyone who matters, Miranda is here, he had problems then with 14 billion kuna shortages in the pension system to pay off his pension, but Miranda Mrsic was talking about a recovery today, that is, the amendment and the additions of this law. However, I must also commend Ivo Jelusic then said, yet this man is a visionary, and I am surprised that whom Ivo Jelusic has bowed to is now Ostojić or, in fact, Komadini or, so I ask myself, to whom he bowed to whether he was a visionary, Ivana, you listen to me why. .../Speakers speak out loud./... Okay, I know it's not, look, but he's a visionary, she's a visionary. So I think whoever he bowed to will win, forgive me, Mr. President, just to finish. [[Let's have a little discussion...]] He said, I'm a little afraid, we'll do something here and then people won't give us confidence and they'll choose HDZ. You can see that the visionary was in 2012. So I ask who he bowed to.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6560	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6561	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here we listen all the time on the one hand and on the other hand, who's to blame for the state of health. I will repeat again that the constitutional category is that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia have the same, right to the same health care, the same health services. Unfortunately, fellow Milinovic, you know well, as a former minister, that's not the case. That it is not the same health care in the Cetina region because you were a minister and it is not the same in Dubrovnik and Lika-Senj County. The Cetina province has 50,000 inhabitants and has no home of health but a facility. In Dubrovnik-Neretva County, we have 4 homes of health that are also owned by the county. And of course you need to decentralize funds to the county. And then, of course, he goes after the political key to the periphery of the outposts. So the Cetinski end, the House of Health Sinj has now been out since 2002 because you haven't changed what Andro Vlahusic did and he... Home to health. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You inherited it, so you left yourself four home health care and hospital status and I'm glad. However, funds decentralised do not come to Sinj's outpost. For what? Why does the Cetina province of 50,000 inhabitants more than Like not have the right to health care the same as in Lika-Senj County, as in Dubrovnik, Neretvanska, as in Zagreb? Of course we don't have a hospital. What do we have to protest for? Which is why our women can't do the ultrasound breast. Six months wait to enroll, and if they don't enroll, they die until they're even in line and they don't have the means to travel because their travel expenses aren't up to 50km. It's a chaotic state of health care. And that's why I'd ask both of you to stop talking to HDZ, SDP, rather than talk about our fellow citizens' health problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6562	Thank you. The honourable representative Darko Milinovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6563	My colleague Bulj, it is true, it is true that we all have the right to equal health care but in nature it seems, you have mentioned often the Ličko-Senj County, how many people from Ličko-Senj County go to Rijeka or Zagreb when it cannot get that level of health care in its home institution and it is normal. And the travel and migration of patients in Croatia are normal. Someone here mentioned an extra hospital in Croatia. I don't think they're here, I said it, and as a minister, there are no more hospitals in Croatia. Some hospitals that Ines spoke 15, 20 km should only be closely specialized in a particular area. But in Croatia there is, if Miro Bulj could listen to me and not Mrs. Sobol, so there is a shortage of hospitals in Croatia and I am convinced. Here's an example. Split, Miranda, that's what you and I used to talk about. So, Split-Dubrovnik 200km. There is no hospital between Split and Dubrovnik. I think that the concept of a new hospital structure must be quite taken into the area and your areas, but we'll say, in particular, these areas where the nearest hospital is 100km. So between Split and Dubrovnik when you're somewhere between 100km you need to get to the nearest hospital. Here's the Minister of Thinking, that's the one down there that might be thinking about building a general hospital with four general hospitals in the area in the near future. And let me remind you of what Miro was saying, it's the area that's gravitating between 50 and 60 thousand people. So imagine now of those 50,000 or 60,000 people one if he gets sick 100km he needs to get to the hospital. That is the way to think about it, and in this context it is necessary to think about both the Cetina region and my Face.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6564	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6565	Thank you, Mr. President. You encouraged me to the replica when you mentioned Mrs. Vesna Bosanac, and in this context, Mr. Nakic's current minister, because he was the same model as the shift of one and the other, which was first reduced in a year, the hospital's income was reduced, and then you deal clearly with the loss, and after that, the shift follows. I remember when you were in the Government, at the narrow cabinet in 2008 or the ninth year it was a debate on your reform, when you talked about the necessary amounts for certain hospitals and then approximately at the level of Croatia by hospitals you raised limits, or budgets seven, eight, nine percent were at Croatian level. And I remember because at that time it was my hospital in Dubrovnik from which I came, which was managed by Mr. Andro Vlahusic, who did not come from the ranks of the Croatian Democratic Community, you know very well. And then you didn't look at that party colour, but the Dubrovnik Hospital in that reform just went the best and its limit went up about 15%. So I just wanted to say that when we talk about how much and how we care about the real interests of the hospital or the particular party interests. And the other thing that's left for us today from this debate, which is not, we haven't, we just haven't heard it, it seems to me, and we haven't responded to it, the information the minister presented. It is incomprehensible to me that at the time of the technical government from 8 November to 22 January, 800 new employees are employed in Croatian health care, so at a time when the government should not create new additional costs and should not be employed and when we have a technical government, as the Minister of Unhealthy Staff said. I think it's really a frantic piece of information. I couldn't believe it was true, but that during the interregne between taking over 800 people is employed. All Croatian counties seem to have about 2,500 and 600 employees. We're talking about the need to abolish the county, and in the same way, or I'm not saying it, it's talking about the need to cancel, it's not my position I'm holding. But there is less, so in a couple, in a month and a half, in Croatian health care, at a time when a third of all employees in Croatian counties have not yet been established.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6566	Thank you. The honourable representative Darko Milinovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6567	What I have to take again is a phonogram of Ivo Jelusic, says we'll act rationally, watch this now. So almost a thousand people in the time of the technical government. We will not hire new people, we will not hire our people, we will stabilise Croatia. Here's it from a phonogram two years ago when this law was passed. That's true, so here's the former finance minister when the last medical system recovery was in the end of 2000. In 31.12.2008, a billion kuna, right, ministers, something a little less, but almost a billion kuna. And we proportionally rescheduled all health institutions in Croatia. We didn't pass this law, so after that, we resuscitated and said these were incompetent, and the ones we're resuscitating are capable. It was the same with the hospital's budgets. The truth is, Andro Vlahusic assured me that his operations in Dubrovnik hospitals are the same. There were those within my party who said, "Give Andra Vlahusic less to create new debts, and we will call him incompetent as you do now." I didn't succumb to that. And then I gave the limit to the highest, the biggest increase in the limit was to the Dubrovnik hospital. But what else did we do? And here is the current president of the Parliament who participated in all these talks. With all the hospital administrations it wasn't this come to the director of Zadar, come here and get the envelope, it's your budget. All the hospital administrations were at the ministry or we were at them, discussing the costs and then making a decision together with all the administrations of the hospitals from Pula, until Vukovar, together with them on the cost of hospitals to bring a new budget and this resulted in the great joy of the then Minister of Finance Mr. Schuker, the ninth, 10th and 11th, of not creating new debts, and which says that there was no recovery of the only three years when there was no recovery in the health system because we set regular conditions of business, and afterwards I had the right to say as minister who was pleased with the budget, if there were no results that he was incapable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6568	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative Anka Komaric Devčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6569	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I wouldn't be replicating myself if my colleague hadn't called me from the pay phone and said that when he was the minister, Mr. Herman Haller stayed in my KBC River as headmaster. I think fellow Milinovic you know very well that Herman Haller is a member of your party and of course you left him, and the rest of you have changed. I think Herman Haller stayed at the time of this former directoral authority, so it's not exactly true that the former rule of law was replaced by all directors on the same day. Not in one red river remains HDZ's director at the head of such an important facility as the Clinical Hospital Center. But what was shown in 2015 was still Mr. Haller's change from the director's post and it proved that no new losses were generated in 2015 and that the old debts had begun to return. Well, now you and I can figure out where you're lucky you changed it, and then where else is more fortunate that we might have changed it in 2012. Perhaps the Clinical Hospital Center would have fewer losses, and perhaps our patients would have a better service and perhaps today the Clinical Hospital Center would be debt-free. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6570	The reply to the replica is distinguished representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6571	I'm not Mr. Haller's lawyer here. I don't think it's good to mention whether he's a member of a party or not. I don't think so, and I know it's not HDZ, it's not. And if it was the SDP, I don't know, but I do know that the SDP government set it up in 2002, in 2000, that it was set up. But he's had the same fate as everyone, just like all the principals so far. When 2012 was determined and the budget was reduced by 20%, so when this law was passed, so the same thing with Vesna Bosnian was returned to the budget, so the current resolution manager whom I respect, know and respect, and I think he's good, I think he's good, to whom the budget was returned, and now he's suddenly successful. And this was the paradigm of SDP behaviour according to this Law on the Resuscitation of Health Institutions, which was explicitly brought in for one reason only, to replace all under quotes "incompetent" HDZ ministers or at least those directors who had within themselves that democratic or anything that was prone to the centre or right center.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6572	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Davor Penic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6573	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Milinović, first of all, I thank you because I really thank you for your speech, especially one part of it, because it is the easiest thing to say that nothing is wrong, but only one who knows the system and knows well what he is talking about can also tell his political rival that something was good. That's what you saw and said. Mr. Drazen Bosnjakovic behaves the same way, and I have not noticed from others any of them who may not know that they are also showing their size and their knowledge, but they will probably learn from you more experienced ones. However, I have an observation based on this bill. So we haven't seen any financial projections, or programs that will be in health care, except what we've heard, and that's what people are afraid of, that whoever wants some slightly higher standard will have to pay even more than supplemental. It's something to worry about. We believe it won't happen after all. However, you say here are the managers of the recovery came without a tender, although they were obliged to set up their recovery plan and program. But here, and I believe you believe me, for example, a remand manager came to Zadar that none of us knew. I personally didn't know her or know who was coming. And now you explain to me how that didn't work out, because the only thing that's against you is because according to the current model, you can do those who didn't work no matter who appointed them immediately on the basis of objective indicators. And that would be a good way. On the other hand, now you're announcing everything will be fine, okay, because people are going to come to the competition now. So now you explain to me how in one Zadar, the whole of Kalelarga knows who he's gonna be and before the minister was appointed, no one knew either. And now everyone in town knows.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6574	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6575	What people say, I don't know. I don't know what people are saying, and what you didn't know, I'd be worried if I were you. You probably weren't at that point close to the top of the party or close to the SDP county board, so you didn't know. They're saying things. So did you see what kind of story it was now for the appointment of a minister? It's gonna be this one, it's gonna be that one, and then someone comes up that nobody's talking about. So I believe that both in Zadar and elsewhere, based on a public tender and asking the founders, I guess something will have to be asked, that there will be elected people who know the health system, who can, if elected on Monday or Tuesday, be able to sit down and work immediately the next day, who will not need to get acquainted with the healthcare system for two, three or four months, as we will say about the House of Health Gospić. So today the health system needs people who know the problem, who are deeply in trouble and who don't need a day to get into it, but start working right away. And I didn't say that after this, honey and milk will flow, and the minister knows it well because he's facing the debts that this government has left him with, like, 2.5 billion kunas and then consolidated somewhere else around, actually, about 4.5 to 5 billion kuna. We will know that when we have accurate and accurate data regarding HZZO, hospitals of general and clinical hospitals and will not run honey and milk, there will be blood, sweat and tears until the minister manages to resuscitate at least as much health care system by 2018. But that primary task I think is that the primary task for all of us who are in one way or another related to the health system, us who work or our users who will use the health care system is not to be created and to stop the creation of new obligations. I think that's the primary goal of the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6576	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Davor Penic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6577	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In your discussion, you accurately detected that there was a problem with the hospital's limit. But I'll remind you, when you were a minister, you didn't exactly assign restrictions to certain hospitals, and the rest of you were remembered for introducing new models of health care funding that I support, like smoking taxes. But I don't support that in one day you took down 364 thousand people who had the right to additional insurance. Maybe you forgot that. So, some things you've done well, but you haven't done your part related to that first sentence of yours that you started to discuss with an American politician, that you first start to see what you could do and you don't want to improve the system and you don't mind your new colleagues or the old minister. That's the point. As long as you're on your way, you're on your own. So you've opened up a question that needs to be discussed first, that the limit is not rightly set. You said it was unfair that there was no hospital between Dubrovnik and Split for 200 km. I totally agree, and I'm signing it right now. It's just a question of what's going to be done at Dubrovnik Hospital? So, because of the territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia, you need some institutions that are particularly Dubrovnik Hospital dislocated and traffic-insulated, you need to give them some higher standards. And that standard requires greater resources, greater limits. Kalos Special Hospital on the island, one of the few and reduce its limit. You were the same part of the limit that was reduced one year, so we rebelled. So it's not true exactly what you say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6578	Thank you. Answer, distinguished representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6579	Of course, I admit, there have been mistakes in my reform as well. At least I went transparent. Remember me when I started with the reforms of the health system it was one Monday, there were 3,000 people at the Hypo Centre, all of Croatia's healthcare professionals were there talking to me about health system reform. And I don't know if you remember and Ingrid certainly remembers when I started reforming the health system I wanted to raise it above the narrow party interests and I said here in the Parliament I was ready to come in political words to the ossier nest on Ibler's Square, present a reform and face your people who will lead in opposition care of the health system. And of course, I said, you don't have to come, I was the Deputy Prime Minister so that it wouldn't turn out now I'm calling them there. I said I'd come to you at Ibler's Square, I'd boxed Zoran Milanovic, I'd ask him for a phone number to call me to come to Ibler's Square with my team and present a health system reform. I think it is necessary today for Croatia. That's what the records are and they didn't want to do. I prayed, I said, "Here I will come to you wherever you want, "to the nest in the political sense of that word of Ibler's Square." You're wrong of 360 grand that it's gone without a supplement, without a supplement, there's no one left, they just got new business conditions and I'll only tell you on one example. I then had a salary as vice president of the government somewhere 19 grand, with all the accessories, I don't know, the cobwebs and I don't know what, 19 grand kuna. And I paid extra 50 kuna, no, no, it was 70 then. My aunt from my hometown of Barletta had a pension of 1,500 kuna, paid the same 70 kuna. Well, I told my people, it's not normal, that I pay 70 kuna and that she pays 70 kuna as well. Then we who had paid more than 10 thousand kuna paid 120 to 150 kuna a month, and that aunt and all kinds of aunts who had 1,000 or 2,000 kuna paid 40 kuna. That's the difference. And then 300,000 people got new business conditions. One of these was you and me and all of us here got new business conditions and I think we paid 120 or 130 kuna a little bit, I think we should have as much as 200, 250, and through that we got 2.5 billion kuna of new funds from our pocket. I agree with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6580	The next replica is the esteemed representative Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6581	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Milinovic, you said in your statement that Minister of Health Dario Nakic, if he wanted to do so, could have replaced all the resuscitation managers of the manager within 24 hours. I will read to you what the minister said only 2 days after this Croatian Parliament voted in confidence with the Government of the Republic of Croatia in a single Zadar medium. "We'll get a new director first. He's wearing himself a health minister, and I'll help you out here as much as possible, but whoever comes here will certainly do a lot of work to fix the situation and that the hospital works properly.". Two days after becoming a minister, he publicly announced a party deal with a non-party resolution manager who, by the way, left his former director, today, the minister of 130m kuna in just seven months reduced to a third of that amount of debt. And now such a person will mean, he's already announcing, I guess I know because then she retires, but in silence it's a law that needs to be made possible by the emergency procedure, everything we've already seen in the Republic of Croatia, that's giving founding rights, that is, to transfer the authority from the state to the county that has already managed hospitals through the boards, elected directors of these hospitals who have left debts that have been left behind after the recovery directors like this in Zadar who have actually been successful in reducing. And the other thing is, it's not good for you to talk about party staffing. I believe you know the name of Mr Branislav Sutić, your protégé who was also the director of Plitvice Lakes National Park and the dean of the Gospić University who has the rightful verdict and is being prosecuted for abuse of power because at the same time he received two full salaries. I don't think it's good when you talk, you call Mr. Maras what was done in Gospić when only an example of Mr. Sutić says what's been going on in Gospić for years, I will dare say under your patronage.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6582	The reply to the replica is distinguished representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6583	If you weren't a lady, I'd be sharper, and this way I'll try to be a little lighter. So you haven't given up for years, you don't give up when you're a former communist for years. Because only former communists can, I won't tell a lie, because you're a lady, twisting the truth and saying Branislav Sutic has the power to rule. That's what we should apologize for, that's what we should apologize for. You have, you have an obligation to tell the truth here. And that's why I'm saying that according to your appearance, I don't think you're an ex-Communicator because you probably couldn't have been ex-wife given the number of years, because only former communists whose heirs you are can invent the fact that someone has a powerful verdict. And that's why you should be a little bit, at least a little ashamed. Personal high school, personal school isn't a topic here, so I'm not going to talk about it and let's wait for a little power and wait a little while, unlike you, which one, or maybe you know it's going to be a judgment. And it was raised for the reason Branislav Sutic signed a document there to receive compensation and not pay, and the payments are the same. But that's not what I'm going to talk about, let them say court cases, their statutes. You already know that a resurgency manager in Zadar will be removed as well. You obviously know everything. I don't know what I'd like to add more because you've informed us of the power of judgment, you've disappointed some people who have nothing to do with this position. And I really don't think that's correct of you. And I'm really convinced that you have nothing to do with the party, but I can see now that you have something to do with Jovanovic, because those are his words. And about what you and Jovanovic were doing together and trying to use the institutions of this country and the PNUSKOK both for me and... each other's chances. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6584	The violation of the Rules of Procedure is the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6585	The provision of Article 238 was violated because Mr. Milinovic, for reasons only known to him, and nothing caused the debate or said what, he replied to the replica, already insulted his colleague by calling him former communists. In this way directly affects creation, please listen to future communists with this kind of behavior... And that's incorrect to Milinovic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You were, you wanted a little bit, and then you took a detour. That's incorrect because you were just right in 1990 and were on our side when you wrote a letter of support to the late Hansel Racan.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6586	Okay, well, he's not offended if he says former communists. There were communists. ... Well, she didn't say she wasn't. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] She said she didn't think she was. Okay. The next replica, the esteemed representative Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6587	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, in your debate, you mentioned the injustice committed by Vukovar Hospital and Dr. Bosanac, and I believe that the same kind of injustice was done to General Hospital Dr. Josip Bencevic in Slavonski Brod and an even greater injustice to the hospital in Novi Gradiška and Pakrac. The only two hospitals that have been combined with the aim of rationalising business through the recovery, to reduce debts and here it is important to point out that Nova Gradiška and Brod hospitals have entered a recovery with a total of about 30 million kuna, and today it is a debt and this accounting debt still do not know exactly how much about 102 million kuna is. So from this, it is obvious that the resolution failed and that the resolution needs to be changed and the founding rights returned to the counties. And I must point out that the counties were literally forced to give their founding rights to the decision of the County Assembly, the Ministry, or the Government. I am saying this because, in the first decision of the County Assembly of the Ship-Posavina County, we have made a conditional decision, because there has been no resolution program in which way it will be implemented and which will be the result, whether it will be in the focus of the patient's interest or money, and we think that it should always be in the patient's interest and the availability of health care. So there was no recovery plan. We have decided not to reduce activity and not to reduce the number of beds and not to reduce the number of workers. And what they did. Hospitals both went into rehab with 572 acute beds, and it was reduced to 405 percent in Brod-Posavina County. I guess it's punishment for Brod-Posavina County which is where some other government is at the county level or because we had four brigades and defended and created Croatia from Vukovar, Nova Gradiška, Zadar hinterland to Dubrovnik. And to be absurd last year, the opinion of the county, the public and health profession on the new network of health services was requested, and then the County Assembly decided that on the basis of public research of the profession, we needed a total of 709 current beds and there were no objections from the then minister and ministry. And what are we supposed to say now, before we need a new law? [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6588	Thank you. The reply to the replica is distinguished representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6589	Well, of course she needs a new law. I think it's just someone who understands the health system clearly. But there's another fact I didn't say. So it was appointed 31st Renaissance Council and the Renaissance Manager. Among those 31 were some who had until then run a health care facility, decreased, created a new debt of three or four, and were appointed to rescheduling directors. You understand? So if you're HDZ, or you're close to democracy in one way or another, then you're creating debts and you need to be relieved. And there are those who have created debts but are close to HNS and SDP and be careful now and they are, now I don't even know what the criteria are. You stayed. I don't want to talk about names. I don't want to talk about names, but it's indicative of what the criteria were. So, you and such directors who have created enormous debts they've become rehabilitation managers, some of them I say once again out of dignity to people I won't talk about names.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6590	Thank you. The next replica, distinguished representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6591	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Milinovic, and he forgets some things. So let's say we forget in 2004 when Mr. Hebrang recasted all the principals he found on his way back then. So when we talk then let's talk let's tell the truth and not just take partial examples for each other. On the other hand, when we talk about Gospić, HDZ and Ms. HDZ asked for the director's shift and it was ultimate. So let's talk politics now, so now the SDP is wrong, the SDP has changed everything. But in Gospić, you asked for the principal's shift yourself. So let's be a little honest with ourselves. But aside from this folklore, I'd be more interested in hearing from my colleague Milinovic since he was a minister and he did a lot of good things at prevention, and we remember what we were doing to prevent him from publicly saying whether it was for him to stop 72 hours for breast cancer, for uterine cancer. Is it in order to put an end to 72 hours with the goal of getting all those people with cancer to come as soon as possible and to get into surgery as possible. That would be more interesting to me than this folklore who is when and at what time he replaced.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6592	Replica response, distinguished representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6593	Yeah, there were shifts and I'll be standing by Hebrang. But, well, there was a shift, that's clear. It was a shift, but you kind of started and directed the course of this debate, and I said that I had changed the concept of my debate precisely because of the discussions that were conducted until then. You're the one who directed the debate because you said this law was passed because it was specifically to replace the sanitizers. Well, he can't do that, it doesn't make sense. I suppose you'll agree with me that it doesn't make sense when the minister has in the hands of the archins, which would have been said and could have been replaced by that reason, and then he wouldn't have changed the law, he would have replaced the principals or the sanitizers and said they were creating new debts. He had all the conditions. So I did say in my argument that I was somehow suggesting to him, come on, I might have done it. I'll admit, I might do it. The minister has another way, given priority to what I agree with, and wants competent people who know as I said something about the health system. And you know it's impossible in 48 hours from diagnosis to surgery. We can tell that again to someone who has nothing to do with the health system. But I'll explain it in plastic. You know, here's what I'm gonna say about rectum cancer or colon. You get some kind of bleeding, find that you have blood in your chair. It's one day. The second day you must, therefore, in ideal conditions, ideally, now I speak as a physician specialist gynecologist who encounters this. So the first day you got the report that you had blood in your chair. The second day you need to clean up, here's 48 hours. Is that 48 hours? The third day you have to do a colonoscopy, it's the third day. That's 70 and how much? 72 hours. The fourth day you have to wait for the PHD report. PHD's been waiting 3 or 4 days. So, on the best of terms, it takes you seven days, and you've done 48 hours, the minister said it didn't work, not that it would end and that it would try to bring it into normal frames as soon as possible and as soon as possible the treatment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6594	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6595	Thank you very much. You said one very important thing in the debate, which is that you should ask some of the founders. And actually this all looks like a little ping-pong to me. Now we've taken away the founding law, and now we're taking it back to the county again. I must say that this founding right sounds quite powerfully and responsibly in itself, but it is very difficult for the county to actually deal with these founding rights because public health institutions are very much related to the ministry and many of its decisions affecting business must be coordinated and given consent to the ministry. And tomorrow, it reflects very much on numbers. And that's why I think that communication must be very strong. It must not happen that some health care institution sinks for 10, 20, 30 million kuna and that a founder who often understands his founding rights purely protocolically that he does not have a position on it and that he does not have a ministry's position on it. We, when it comes to this collapse, must work together and must actually find solutions together. I'll say, I'm coming from Zagreb County and we don't have any health care facilities in recovery. But how do we do it? We're working so we can really track where the sinks are coming from. We then prevent from our county budget, we give, we help to keep it on some kind of zero. And I think it's an important and good recipe to keep working. So, when it comes to the fact that a health care institution is beginning to sink into the loss, there is a need to actually sit down and the founder and representative of the Ministry and the HZZO and public institutions to detect why it is and how things are solved. I was also president of the board of directors at a health care facility in Ivanić-City, NAFTALAN, which deals with the treatment of psoriasis based on medicinal oil. In your day we had a limit of 900 thousand kuna per month. After that, we reached the limit of 600,000 kuna. You know how much that reflects on business? And that's exactly where the founder showed real understanding and took us out to stay at zero. I think it is very important that the founders of their founding rights take this very seriously, but the ministry must also know that it has a significant impact on its decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6596	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6597	Clearly, that's why obviously on this right hand side of us should have the courage to deal with real problems. Here you are now mentioned, you had the budget of this facility 900 thousand, when they came 600,000 and of course you had to make new commitments. So when we were in power, we didn't need the courage to sit down with the measuring people and talk about the problems and tell you the problems because of that, that and that, and we raised the health system above the narrow party interests. It was normal for us, and it obviously takes some kind of courage on this side to do it. There doesn't need any courage. Now I'm sorry Ingrid's not here, he says my letter of support to Hansel Racan. Yeah, I'm proud of that. Now maybe my parents will be surprised to hear it when it was. '89. Racan came to Serbs, attacked by Chetniks, and I was in JNA in Serbia and wrote by Chetniks and Communists Like you didn't celebrate. Because for me, Racan was the president of one big political party. He was attacked by Chetniks, none of the communists from Licko-Senj County such as Ingrid Anticevic had stood up and told Racan and given support. I say, it's an honor you fought against the Chetniks there. And then they took away my 15-day prize I got somehow, I'm a athlete so I won some kind of medals running through the woods and they took away those 15-day awards because in that letter I also condemned Milosevic's grand-serb policy and said Communist Like you didn't celebrate. You had Racan here, you hid, I guess, waiting for him to finish this process in '89. And on and on. Why didn't Ingrid Antičević answer and say, "Leave the Chetniks to us, Hansel Racan alone?" I had to say it and I wasn't in the game.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6598	Here's what we solved. We solved the letter, we can move on. The next replica is the esteemed representative Ljubica Kasimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6599	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Representative Milinovic, the Brod Hospital has been categorized as a second-class hospital by the scope of the job by the largest general, or formerly county hospital. Not to mention her merits in the Homeland War when about 11,000 wounded were processed, she worked perfectly on the front line of the battlefield. Of course and primarily thanks to healthcare professionals. Before the Renaissance Act in Brodska hospital was renovated and a new building of polyclinics was built, a stroke unit, an intensive treatment unit, a new thermal plant, a children's surgery department, a new kitchen and a hospital restaurant, a new united emergency reception, a magnetic resonance. And then we have this unfortunate recovery, the Brodska and Novogradska Hospital, the master plan comes to us, then the revised master plan, the change of five recovery directors, the change of the president of the Sanitation Councils. Even some who are not even from Brod-Posavina County who have 158,000 inhabitants were brought in. And what did we get from this recovery? We've lost the subjectivity of the Novogradska hospital, the debt has increased five times, and now it's 106 million kuna, with no refurbishing equipment. And here I am now wondering and believing Ministers that the Novogradska Hospital will get its subjectivity and, of course, we will return that service to the Ship's Hospital as it was at least before this recovery and, of course, improve.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6600	The reply to the replica is distinguished representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6601	The boat hospital was one of the more successful hospitals when I was a minister. And here's something, it won't, I hope, it's gonna break even these sanitizers and no master plan. When you mentioned the master's plan, someone here was talking about the master's plan, that's what people from, I mean, don't disrespect anyone, from Bosnia and Herzegovina, the French, from Republika Srpska. So I don't mind, I don't label but I said then Minister 200 grand is, you don't have to pay, it should have been directed somewhere else because I'm convinced. Because at least I, as far as I remember there are great people and the Ministry of Health, here's the minister now. And in the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance people who know the health system of the Republic of Croatia well, you and such people should have worked out a master plan, and then there would be no such errors and abnormalities as the master's plan, written by the French, people and colleagues, or I already don't know who from Bosnia and Herzegovina, Republika Srpska and Montenegro. Well, it's a pain in the guess of Croatia, we less respect our experts and I hold that in health care and that is also an indicator of all, all indicators say that we have extraordinary experts, so we have good extraordinary experts who could make master plan but with certain specificities of the Republic of Croatia as well as has.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6602	Thank you. The last replica of the esteemed representative Ivan Sinčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6603	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I wanted to look back on Mr. Milinovic's exposure to Vukovar Hospital. So when it's reduced from 8.6 to 5.2 if I'm not wrong about the hospital's budget we see here and not just here, but it's one concept that all governments and authorities used in what part of it, the concept that if we cut into one hospital, in this case the hospital is that we're going to save something, we're not. Why? The hospital has its own costs, for what we don't cover from the budget, it's going to have to be in debt, it's going to be a religious relationship, it's going to be a loan, it's going to be impossible to pay for the commitment, and then in a few years we're going to have to resuscitate it just this time we're not going to pay what it takes, but we're going to pay even the borrowing costs. It's simply passing from hollow to blank and such savings can't bring any change. That's all I wanted to comment on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6604	Thank you. The reply to the replica is distinguished representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6605	You're right, now I don't know if you were when I was talking about the part where I was the health minister when we formed those famous hospital calculations. I was, at that time, 62 or 63 medical institutions were in that limit, that is, in that budget. We had to calculate the budget from 62 hospitals. By then, the health system had accumulated 2.5 billion kuna debts on an annual basis. I sat down with all the administrations and all the directors and assistants from first to last and said. The cost of this hospital you just said, the cost of this hospital is 10. The cost of that hospital and that hospital is 20, there's this 40, so 62 hospitals and we've calculated about 8 billion kunas at the annual level total cost. And I said as a minister, OK, I'm going on to reform now, to fight for the health system. Can I provide 8 billion kuna for the functioning of the hospital healthcare system, if I can, then we'll get such budgets to cover all our costs. I did it. In 2009, 2010, and 2011, there were no new debts in the health system, and we reduced some of our commitments. So if I hadn't done it then we'd have to say it like this, but this hospital is too big. We need to connect something here, separate it here, and rationalize the system that way. You may not remember but it is not a core bussiness, there were 17 hospitals in Zagreb. In the city of Zagreb, every hill must have its director and administrative council. I'm down from that 17 to the 7. And do you know how much you saved on public procurement? 432 million kuna. I'll say two hospitals on public procurement only. I won't mention it so it doesn't get misunderstood and labeled. In one hospital literally chicken one, it was literally obtained for 15 kunas in another for 40 kuna. And when we had a united public debate at Zagreb level where in Zagreb, not in Vukovar, in Gospić, Knin saves, it should be saved in Zagreb where 7 billion kuna is spent on the hospital system. It's a 410% savings.../The speaker doesn't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6606	Thank you. We have another debate until the break. Dear Representative Dario Hrebac on behalf of the HSLS Club, BUZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6607	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. We've been discussing today all morning who had successful hospital directors and who had failures. It is my personal opinion that in this system of health care in the Republic of Croatia they can be less successful and completely unsuccessful. No one can be successful. Why? So we all know what kind of policy the Croatian Health Insurance Institute is. Therefore, when negotiating policies, it was such that prices of health services were drastically reduced in order to justify the reduction of the limit that was simply determined by the same HZZ. In such a way, the then headmaster, so I'm talking about these before who were appointed by the county councils, or mayors themselves, turned out to be incompetent. They turned out incompetent because for the health care service that was given at the hospital, they only got part of the value given the agreed price, as a matter of principle, to take or leave. I would thus take advantage of the example that, for example, something that cost 100 HZZO was paying 24. So I ask the question of how in a system like this you can be successful at all, how you can be successful and not make a profit, create a zero. So that only the system is maintained when you have the whole situation in advance that you're doomed to fail. The Reanimation Act allows the establishment of rehabilitation councils and the setting up of resolution managers who eventually, as I said in the vast majority, also proved incompetent precisely because the HZZO policy remained the same. Today, we have re-additions of the Restitution Act, which in our opinion only continue agony, because ultimately it doesn't matter who has management rights in health institutions if the system is just. But now to return hospitals to the county, without knowing the actual debt of the hospital that someone had mentioned already and before, there is no telling who and how these debts that were left before that famous recovery will be resolved. Because correcting that mistake was the wrong way. Now that the directors of the board of directors have been removed before, the worst of all, in fact, that the representative body of local self-government, so the county, and we all know how we find ourselves, in which situations the county actually finds, the County Assembly decides nothing at all, is just to take it into consideration, get the hospital, and in fact we won't know what the minister himself said, we won't know the real state of the damage caused by just this kind of hospital management before. During the period of the sanity procedure, the renaissance managers were not obliged to submit reports on their work, financial status, human resources policy or any other county assembly, so that at any time at local level we do not have any insight into the actual debt, the real state of hospitals, and we have an indication that it was said before and during the debate that it was employed without any criteria or real need. And that really dear colleagues have the feeling that we're constantly playing ping pong, that we're constantly changing, that one power is coming, that another government is coming, that we're not really dealing with real problems. I'm from Bjelovar and I'm from that constituency and I'm from the city of Bjelovar. And now I'd like to use this debate in essence, my colleague Milinovic made a good point, he talked about rationalization. We don't have an extra hospital, I agree. We have to raise standards, he was talking about building some new hospitals. I'm here to be sued by the Minister as a Belarusian that in Bjelovar we are the only one who has prepared the complete paperwork, the finances made. Of these finances, 60%, over 60% comes from the EU, around slightly less than 35% will be borne by local self-government while only 10% are borne by state authority. So we swear on EU funds, we have complete documentation ready, but therefore the whole project of building a new hospital in Bjelovar awaits. I agree, you've just arrived, we need to see an analysis of the current situation. However, if we already have a completed project, a healthy project that has been approved, we have funds approved from EU funds, will we now throw it into the wind. So that's just one part of the problem. Finally, I would like to appeal, and I am glad that today, the minister said that after this change that I absolutely support, I believe it will bring little harm, it will not bring milk and honey. It'll bring a little bit of damage. But lastly, I'd like to say that we need to be aware that by changing the bed we won't cure the patient. We have to deal with the real health problems, we have to start carrying out a real reform, I stress the real reform of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, we have to through the existing measures that here I hope on Monday, by voting the budget, we will contribute to the start of strengthening the economy to fill the budget and strengthen the exactly of the health system that is now unsustainable for us. And lastly, I would add that in order to heal the system except for the true reform of HZZO, it is also necessary to reform primary health care, to ensure that indeed 70 to 80% of patients are processed in general practice, that costs are not done without weight, that doctors of general family medicine are stimulated to send each patient to hospital and specialist examinations, and most of all we need to invest in preventing as much of our citizens from coming to hospitals as possible. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we must seriously wonder where our health care is going, we must ask ourselves seriously that only this amendment of the law does not stop at this amendment to the law so that the operation doesn't turn out to be successful and the patient dies. So we will support such a legal amendment, we think it's just one of the small segments of how we're going to improve the health system but no, I stress no, and enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6608	Thank you very much. We'll continue the debate at 15.00 hours. Session interrupted at 13.27 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Tulio Demetlik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6610	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Now, after this break and after my colleague's debate, there's one basic question that he would ask, but I'll agree with him in one part where he says we're always listening to a tennis game or something. Ping-pong as he said between the right-hand side and the left-hand side. I want to believe that no matter what side the medical recovery took place, and unfortunately, this last one has failed. I don't want to be pessimistic, and I don't think this new law is going to resuscitate health care, and I want all the best ministers. I want to ask my colleagues the question of what I disagree with, which is how it can support a law from which we can't see how the handover to the counties is going to take place, i.e. According to the founders without a pawn's account, no balance. We hear that we don't know what the debts are today and how someone will take over and sign an agreement if we don't know from what source this debt will be financed from. In the state budget of these funds I don't see, and I'm sure the county budgets just don't have them. It turns out to me that this law is passed as an excuse to do something, but the problem remains the same. So we're sure to experience a lot more resolutions. I would also like to point out, and therefore I will not support this law, because the article in which the appointment of a director gives the minister this provision is contrary to Article 59. The Health Protection Act where the Director is appointed by the Administrative Council. So these two laws are opposite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6611	Answer, distinguished representative Dario Hrebak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6612	Thank you very much, Your Honor. During today's debate, it has already been, and I am also troubled by it honestly, and during today's debate, I think that my colleague Milinovic gave an answer to that question and suggested to the minister that, as far as I understand it, the minister had confirmed that before and formally, this institution would pass into the county hands, that a final account would be made before that, and that those who would do so would sign it, and if the data would not be correct, the criminal answer. And I think that's right. Because we can't just transfer responsibility to the hands of local self-government. The second part, maybe it wasn't really a question for me, but it certainly was a question in place, here we have a representative of the ministry and it really would be, I trust the professional services of the ministry that prepared this work material, and it would be good indeed if it were what you mentioned that there are certain legal analyses to see if it really is. But I don't think that's a question for me anymore is a question for the ministry's representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6613	Thank you. Second replica, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6614	I agree with my colleague, there was ping-pong in the debate, the left hand what they did, the right hand what they did and the health services are at the lowest level and the patients, people mean with the need for health care have absolutely no use at all. And so for 20 years we've been talking about health care. I will again mention the constitutional category is equality, the right of all to the same health care in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia, from Vukovar to Dubrovnik. And the biggest problem is the decentralisation which essentially just before Vice-President Sanader mentioned decentralisation towards the county and then the county deployed the decentralised funds that she cared about. And these border areas, municipalities and cities, local self-governments that don't have that health system and are not, say, politically similar to that county get nothing. And these citizens are in the sixth order and it's the most important category, so the poorest parts. I always mention them from Slavonia, Like, Gorski kotar, Dalmatian Zagora, from your neighborhoods, absolutely do not have the same health services or close to the great environments where they should be better. It can't be, so these are messages in health care. We're sending messages that we're all going to live in big cities, there's better health services, there's better education, education, and these border areas of course you'll be moving out. If you don't have a medical service, you don't have a kindergarten. And that's how the left and right are transferred to continuity. Was it a contest, wasn't it a contest? Of course they were in love by political resemblance. Both. So what, who doesn't know, everyone knows that alive. It's just that we have to... but these things must change and look to the citizens of the patient and, of course, doctors as people who provide these services and those institutions and there have been a lot of entanglement. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6615	Honorable representative Dario Hrebak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6616	Look, I've been exhibiting myself, and I've mentioned several times, there's no hospital, there's no public health facility that can, in this way, set prices and set limits and that this hospital works successfully. And the minister himself said that after this change, honey and milk will not flow. That's clear. So we need to consensually agree on what kind of health care we want, how we want it to be available and how we want public health reform to be implemented. We talked a lot about public health reform in the pre-election campaign together. It's time for the cold heads to sit down, think about it, and finally make a row in health reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6617	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, distinguished representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6618	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. It's a good thing that this break, that we stopped fighting over who replaced the HDZ's high-quality directors, set up incompetent SDP resolution managers. And to return to the problem that lies ahead, which is therefore the final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on the Restitution of Public Institutions. Deputy, I am truly sorry that the minister has left, but you have the right to do so later on in the closing statement. I would ask you to answer the following questions and I will try to be as brief as possible and as clear as possible. I don't see the fiscal effect of this law anywhere in this law. Maybe I'm wrong, maybe my colleagues have it, I don't see it. We said, not once, that we would not pass the laws in this House without reading in them what fiscal effect would have on the budget, on the state budget. It's gone again. And that's why our debates are like this. And that's why, in all our discussions, especially when we make important laws like this law because it's about health and health and it is something important and something that is in big trouble we always return to the irrelevant, irrelevant things, who has appointed whom, who has replaced whom. Did you from the Ministry of Health talk to the mayors, the county community or anyone who will suffer the consequences of this law? Countys have made their budgets, in these budgets, money to resuscitate public institutions whose counties are not owned because no one has planned them. There are no planned funds for this budget in the state budget of the Ministry of Health. These are the financial effects that are not mentioned in this. And now we should vote for this law just because someone said that it would be better than what it was up to now or that it would get some results better and better quality than the Law on the Restitution of Public Institutions. Is this law a plan to resuscitate these same debts that we are discussing all day today that they did not settle and that the resuscitators had no plans to resuscitate public institutions but only because they were SDP's? And now we're talking and we're coming into a parliamentary procedure with a new bill without the same plans that we're always saying we missed and still don't have them. And yet we have to believe that these plans and that now HDZ directors will be more successful and better at resuscitating those same institutions than they were SDP's resuscitators. Whether the names listed in this report, i.e. in the draft law, indicate the names of the resolution managers who were successful and those who were unsuccessful. So the time has not yet come for us not to hide and generalize things, but for everyone to have a name and a last name and no matter what political option it belongs to, whether it's left or right, to answer for something that's done good or for what it's done wrong. There's no such thing, but all day long we've been listening to rhetoric that all these sanitizers were bad and that no one was able to get any public institutions out of the problems in which the public institution entered when the Sanitation Act was passed. In addition to the settlement of financial commitments and the collection of payments under the laid down deadlines, the recovery programme included a total of 246 measures and 561 activities. And this is how to come into the parliamentary procedure with such a bill with two articles and an amendment still on it by these same governments to write these 246 measures and 561 activities that are satisfied or not satisfied, which has been made, and which has not been made and claimed and promises that now, after Monday, when we adopt this law, everything is much better is irresponsible. Nothing but irresponsible. These measures were to be implemented by the end of 2017 through the National Hospital Plan, i.e. functional hospital merger and other reorganisation and system stabilisation measures. And again, we have a bill that does not support what is stated and how it is thought to bring hospitals together, whether it is going, whether it is not going, and what is the strategy of the new ministry at all to know that with this bill, the problems caused by the Restitution Law will be solved. We financially know how hospitals operate, and we've heard that a few times today, but we haven't heard what's going on with the patient's checkup number, whether it's bigger or smaller and what's with the waiting lists. Whether those waiting lists are longer or shorter. These are also very important parameters, because believe me at this point, I think that no patient in the Republic of Croatia who is in a hospital in a health care facility or any public institution cares the least about who is a recovery manager or who is director of that hospital. The only thing our patients are looking for, what they want is speed, is a service and getting the healthcare they need in Croatia. In view of all the irrationalities of such a health system, it is a wonder that the overall debt of healthcare is not even greater, because for years we have been talking and transferring the ball to each other. But the only thing we've done for decades is small cosmetic procedures, but nothing has been done to facilitate the business of health care. And such a bill cannot be considered a reform law, because it is certainly not a health reform. We do not reduce the number of hospitals, hospital service prices are not determined by a single tariff as it is in the EU, but by how much the patient is in the hospital. The minister today said we would save two and a half billion kuna by 2018. I beg you, Deputy, answer the question how? Does rationalizing the hospital system or privatizing health, health care? These are the questions we have to answer, and this law will have consequences. The first consequences that will happen will happen in the county. And I come to the conclusion of what the minister also said today that the current government has decided to staff up, or hire directors through public tenders. It says here that within 15 days of the adoption of the law, owners must form administrative councils, directors shall be appointed within eight days, but those directors in hospitals where the sanity manager was poor can only be hired with the blessing of the minister. And now how, what's changed since what we're criticizing wasn't good. And what ties now is that someone who reports to the principal's competition has with the success and failure of the sanaci administrator who was in that hospital before him. What are they connected to? Nothing. And now we come to believe that there will be no political staffing, but the minister brings the last word on who will be the director or not be the director, and we are hiding behind a public tender, while putting the public institution in an unequal position. Because in those public institutions where the sanity manager was good, where certain shifts were done, and we don't know where it is because we don't even have the names of the sanity managers, we don't have any fiscal indicators, we don't have any indicators in this, and we have to believe that this minister is going to give the green light to the director on what basis, and it's not political humanization again that we're saying we're not going to do it anymore, and behind that we're hiding all the time. And this law even states in its explanation that the law is changing because it will not be allowed to employ people in public institutions the way the SDP used to hire them, and we are doing the same thing. I would even dare say a worse thing, and to hide behind a public tender that ultimately means absolutely nothing. We bring public institutions and directors into an unequal position, which is bad. The Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The health care law. By what law do we now choose the directors of public institutions? Is it according to the Health Protection Act or are we going to choose them under this law? What does a remand manager and what happened now have to do with the appointment of the director of that public institution? No, especially the fact that we return these public institutions overnight hot potatoes to local and regional self-government units, that these units of local and regional self-government have not at all asked whether they can, which they either have or do not have to solve the problems that have now accumulated in this recovery. And instead of letting go by 2017 to do an analysis of everything that is with these measures we decide differently overnight, we bring in a problem and one, we bring in a problem and a budget because in the budget of this money there is no plan. And we expect everyone to clap because we did a good thing. And when we talk about political staffing, this is a typical example of political staffing. And the worst thing that can happen to us is that through public procurement, we're hiding this very political staffing, we're criticizing those who were before, and we're doing the same thing as they are, and we expect someone to tell us that we're better. We're not better, we're not doing well. This Labour law won't support it, not because of whether it's good or bad, it'll only show the time it is, but because of all of this I've stated. First and foremost, this bill has no financial effects that it will produce, an analysis of the financial effects it will produce in its application and we no longer believe in anyone's word in particular when it comes to health and the protection of the health of Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6619	Thank you very much. We have three replicas in this debate. He's the first of his distinguished MPs, Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6620	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. You say financial effects, so the biggest financial effect of 2.1 billion if I'm right and services get worse and worse, health services. Which means that all governments so far have not managed the health system well enough, that it is centralized in one place. There's the biggest problem with centralization. And that's what I was saying earlier that from all rural areas is essentially sending a message to live in large areas such as Zagreb, Split, Osijek. So we're emptying our space that's huge and where people could live well, and because centralized healthcare is like other resources. You say in 2016 there is no financial meaning in the budgets of neither county nor local funds. As I understood the minister this morning in his presentation, he said this law would begin to apply from 2017, the following financial year. So this year it's going to be under this law means you financially, if I understand correctly, and the deputy minister can deny me. ... Then if it is the first day of publication, surely there will be compensation because it is a ministry that decentralises otherwise funds on the county. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Decentralised funds in the county, that's also a big problem. And it's a kind of centralization. So it would be better to reduce the county or abolish it wouldn't be a problem at all, and invest in health care, schooling. Maybe that would be the least of the problems and the best solution. It'd be for specialists and doctors. I hope when it comes to reorganizing that you will accept it. Thank you very much, but you and your coalition partner have failed in the past term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6621	Replica reply, distinguished representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6622	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bulj, you're new to the Parliament, so I might just as well tell you to ask your colleague Shuker, your coalition partner, which means the financial impact of the law. We know the financial effect of all the former governments very well. I was talking here about the financial impact this law will produce on the budget of the Republic of Croatia. That's two different ideas. And here's another fellow Shucker, ask what that means. As regards the dedicated funds in 2017, this law shall enter into force 15 days after it enters into force of the County or the owners of public institutions shall elect the Administrative Council. Eight days later, the director is appointed. If that's what you're saying, and it's not wrong, you understand, what now from 1.04 to 1.01.2017? Who's going to answer, how are they going to answer? That new principal? So we're gonna say again that he didn't have any authority because he didn't have the funds for so many months, eight months, and then it turns out what? Who, then, is responsible for these hospitals and those public institutions where we have a set-up director who has no money and who, after eight months, we will re-call to create additional debts. So as soon as the director is appointed, he becomes responsible, and he must know very well how much resources he has available and whether he has the resources available to manage these hospitals at all, because if that's not the case, those citizens you're talking about don't have services right now will have even less.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6623	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6624	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you've been talking to your colleague Nancy about how political staffing is the reason for this law. I'd like to emphasise what happened to the master plan of the hospitals that the French were doing and what the effect of this master plan was. He was paid, put out of force, once audited and again tried something of him to make and forgotten. None of you can even mention him anymore. Varga threw it in the basket and there's no use for it. It provides for separations, hospital mergers, unprincipled regions, inconclusive according to what could have been for smaller hospitals to be based on clinical hospital centres. Reduced acute beds, increased these living beds, all of it was in that plan that failed. Nothing happened, nothing concrete. It's been recovered from the debt that came back to life. And when Varga arrived as minister, he immediately replaced four directors of clinical hospital centers. And I welcome that decision of his. The man saw them doing business with their loss, that they didn't take any measures, that there was no rationalization and he did well. He needed it with all the principals, all the way to one principal, that is. the sanaci manager of every hospital in Croatia that did business continued to be lost should have done the same. Today, it's come to this that we have a law that will finally happen, but I don't believe the end of it. It is necessary to control why new losses have arisen that have been greater than before. The number of departments decreased, the number of beds decreased. What happened to the money the hospitals recovered? Where did the new debts come from? What a party job it was, hundreds of those who came without a competition, who came for no reason into the hospital system and on the hospital's salary today caused these debts.?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6625	Time's up. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6626	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Djakić, I agree with you that the problem with some plans being written to us by the French, some plans are written by the Germans but none of the other plans seem to be anything. The French wrote a master plan, the Germans wrote a plan for economic recovery, health care and everything else, and again we see that the German plan has little effect on Croatian society. But let's let it go. I didn't talk about the master's plan, and you didn't have a basis for the replica about it, but I'm going to relate to you. You said that finally this law would contribute to getting rid of these things. How do I know that? Because you're telling me this? Or because we hear it on the right? Or because the minister or the deputy minister said so? Why is there nothing in this bill to change the law, no indication that we could say that, it will be or will not be, and that after a while we say something came true that was promised or not accomplished. This is how we taxively state, we promise until yesterday nothing was good, from now on everything will be fine, honey and milk will flow. However, it keeps repeating itself, and we keep spinning in the same circle. And that's that those who used to be no good, those who came here today are rolling, and so on in a cycle of four years that we reset something, and in those four years, the damage that's been done doesn't say anywhere, and we can't call anyone by name or by name because we don't have anything and we don't have anything. And as long as we don't start working that way, things like this will happen to us. What I mentioned, every renaissance manager has his name and last name. And he must be responsible for his loss by name and last name.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6627	Time, thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed representative Ana Comparić Devčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6628	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Nancy, you said, overnight they're bringing hot potatoes back to the county. And I agree with you. County, all the districts that will be returned to the hospital will have to go to rebalancing. The county budgets are so small. If it's two whole billion kunas and a county, let the state take half, how are we going to deploy a new billion kunas to the county budgets? What will it mean for county budgets, and where will they find that money? So they're gonna have to download some items. They didn't plan it. We can ask ourselves a question, maybe colleagues in the election campaign were a lot of speeches about how much county we actually needed. Maybe this is one of these reforms, only through the wrong law because after this power, we'll be free to remove the county because simply the county won't have any more money for anything but only for the recovery of hospitals that are now going to get into this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6629	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6630	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Comparic Devcic. We agree and yes, it is a danger and it is a tectonic disorder that will only have its great, great consequences. And that is why it is important that when we make laws, we really discuss and think about what this law will bring tomorrow. So I asked the deputy, and I sincerely hope that in my final address I will give answers to the questions I have asked because these are important questions and answer these more important questions. So as long as the public's information has happened to us, which has been negotiated, with whom it has been negotiated, it's just that we call the mayor after the mayor and ask if he has or doesn't have, that is, the county has or has no money for the recovery that the state now imposes on her. I know that in Istria as regards the 2016 budget, we did not plan these funds in the county budget and that this will be a cost to us in Istria, an unplanned cost which will result in consequences on some other items. And I would say that this is before the centralization of power, the additional powers where someone takes the right to truly create a policy of everyone and everyone overnight without making a commitment to the parliamentary representatives, the public and citizens of the Republic of Croatia to know what its decision will be and what its consequences will be. It's the centralization of the power that we're going to experience from day to day, and how much of the county is going to last, it might be best for them to declare the bankruptcy so that maybe we can resuscitate them and solve them in that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6631	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. The first one is President Ingrid Antičević Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6632	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, Deputy, I can't see from here, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, since yesterday and these days when the legal proposals from the Government have generally been made, they have no longer, nor, of course, the urgent procedure, have the ingredients that are necessary and which are necessary that one bill must contain in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Not only do they not adhere to the unique methodological nomotechnical rules for the production of the Croatian Assembly's works, but the government itself is obliged to comply. So, not to respect these higher standards, but we no longer have the usual ingredients of the bill that they have always had in this Croatian Parliament. So in this bill of law, we don't have who they are, we don't have the necessary content that is financial effects. It's just gone. It's a mandatory part of the bill. I don't even know how that came to be on the agenda. The amendment of a parliamentary representative who does not comply with the Rules of Procedure is not discussed, is rejected. He's not being rejected, he's being rejected, he's not being debated at all. Furthermore, Article 174 speaks of the content of the draft law and the necessity for the applicant to submit, in addition to the proposal for a law, a report on the consultation of the interested public which is also an obligation under the Public Information Act. Who did you consult with? What debate did you... ? Nothing. So there's an impression, and it's not just an impression based on what I said, that the government's intended not to rule the laws, but on the indications because they have the form of an apparition. by emergency procedure without the necessary ingredients, and by content without excess why how to get rid of resolution managers only because they were set up during the former authorities. And when we learn that it doesn't matter anymore when someone sets it up, does it by competition, because somebody always has to set someone up? Even in the competition, someone has to decide again. What do you think we're naive? And no one else is naive and let's not fool around here. That's the least important. It's important how he works, so if someone proved to be doing a good job, why won't you leave him especially if he's impartial. I don't understand it at all, and you all did, and you and HDZ were talking about it. Most especially. Not these people, because there aren't many. Some have even come from abroad, they may have similar references as the prime minister himself who will leave tomorrow, who are sorry, who love their homeland, who will have less here, but are proud to have contributed to something. Why are we laughing at these people? So, I'll do it again. You say we'll receive them at the competition, these weren't accepted at the competition, although some have excellent results. And I'll say it again, those who have done bad things are objective criteria. To replace them right away, I'm sorry they haven't changed before, no matter who did. Some of them are. However, obviously that it is boring to listen to it at all, we have already been invited and here in Zadar the whole of Kalelarga knows of two names that will be discussed. And nothing to anyone. Well, that's even less important. What concerns, therefore, is that the first act here by the ministry, the resolution ministry, the health ministry that the government is referring to is not a debate on financial projections and the economic plan in health care. And if the last government wasn't ambitious and they weren't good results, what we had to hear and see from the current policy is how much money you'd get, that's what you'd get. Therefore, and do not forget all doctors, so in the system of education and health it is also something that is being held in the Republic of Croatia, which is a Croatian tradition and which are many, that many countries and in the former state have been a role model in this. Are you going to destroy that too? By the same model by which many would not have had a high school and would not be doctors but would not have a high school if you applied the models you were going to afford to Croatian citizens. To speak of this fortunately, an unfathomable minister who spoke about how much money the music would have, which bed would have. But I'm afraid it's not just this or that person who comes from the ruling but that it's the ruling policy that wants to be imposed here. So, another blow. I'm afraid so. I wish it wasn't, that the social state was being disarmed. It is sad to say, therefore, that it is unfortunate that those who have benefited the most from this social state and in the past treat future generations like this. In view of their pedigrets, as much as their parents could afford them personally, they would not be medics, let alone doctors. And with what right do you take away the opportunity of all those who have fed you, they have trained you to narrow their standards. What is needed and what is emphasized and here is emphasized, and we certainly welcome it from the rulings. So, these economic standards. So, not to diminish this social component but to save it, not to throw it away. This model that was just in 2015 when HZZO came out of the Treasury was an excellent model for all those who would manage hospitals so that they could operate so effectively and protect the standard. I will return to Zadar Hospital again because, despite the great debt therefore, the economic postulates were applied, a return was made to the invested, the hospital not only had reduced waiting lists but had provided much more services in the range both in number and in quality. So, with the existing system. It's not just, it's the easiest thing to do when there's no vision, when you don't want to, or when you're setting up your own frames that aren't for nothing, even though you have your staffs that are of quality, there are them, who can do business satisfying these seemingly opposed principles. To satisfy social justice, to preserve the social health standard of our citizens, and to do positive business. If you're going to put all this back where you're going to the hospitals because some of them are lost, and because you haven't sanctioned that man, then you're going to have what we thought we had already moved. These are serious things, so there can be improvisation everywhere, but with people's health and with that system, you don't have to play. Not to repeat what my colleague Mrsic said, all we are talking about is a direct impact on citizens' health. They have recently received faster service and quality service. Try to preserve it, improve it, not reverse it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6633	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first of which is the distinguished representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6634	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues of Anticevic-Marinović listen to you in one part I must say so I can hardly trust my own ears. You say imagine the law is implemented by emergency procedure and you say more and it says that its implementation will not require additional funding. Well, you were the chairman of the Legislative Committee in the last term, remember how much law we were almost 90% of the law went according to an emergency procedure and not to say how many laws we were just talking about that provision that spoke of the necessary means that it was neither stated nor estimated how much funding under that law that we were making at the time. And not to mention, in this law, it says that by implementing it, even rationalising it will save certain resources that are normally provided for in the entire health system budget. Because if it wasn't for that, it would be if it wasn't for this law? Then what would happen? The same system would work, and the ministry says it will save this way. And the other thing, you're talking about the resuscitators, I find it unacceptable that the resuscitators at the time of the technical government question the competition and employ 800 people, most of which are not health personnel. Only in my hospital down in Dubrovnik, so I come from Dubrovnik, from November 8 to January 22, a tender for 50 new employees is opened and again I say most of it is not health staff. By opening a tender at a time when the technical government, which was not justifiable for employment, was not even a substitute but a new employee. I think these directors deserve a shift. It's just that at that time when the technical government dared hire 800 new people to the state budget. And we're talking about saving, we're talking about rationalization, we're talking about the need to cut resources in health care and otherwise in the state budget. I think it's just enough for those who did it to be replaced.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6635	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6636	Not that you should be replaced, but that you are obliged to file a criminal report and that as soon as possible, I welcome it. But I'm saying what you want to do here, all of it. It's an idea. That's what's dangerous and that's what you don't need. And the truth is, you say that a lot of laws in the last government were discussed by an emergency procedure, a lot of them. You say 90%. What you suggested was 100% and you promised to be better. Then what was I supposed to do? According to your logic, it wasn't necessary to change power. Except that you've improved what was bad and you're saying it yourself. So this is what I don't think we understand. So what are the financial projections on the impact on the budget itself? If we have today’s results at certain hospitals that 365 days as a time of maturity of commitment and default have been reduced to 60 days, it must have affected the budget itself immediately. And it's certainly a positive reaction that ultimately had a positive impact on the entire economy. So what I'm trying to tell you is that this is where you destabilize a system like this and you haven't created anything yet, but the main goal is to set up our own people. And under the influence of that county, ours will have an impact. ... So I'm telling you, which is why if you kept saying it was supposed to be professional people preferably even impartial in which you have more faith how that street knows in Zadar and you're going to run a competition on who it's going to be. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's the same as in public works. You never know how long the work will last, how much it will cost only the performer is always famous. So here and here.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6637	Thank you. Next replica, the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6638	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, Antičević-Marinović, you have actually revealed to me today the secret of your eternal youth because it seems to me that you have been hyberizing for the past four years. You've completely confused the fact that you've advocated principles by which people are chosen not by competition but by political likeness. This was then called the Revolving Door in your methods, as you introduced employees to the state and public administration. In order to end last year, that brilliant idea of your employment would bring down the Constitutional Court, and he said that what you've been doing for four years is against the law. And you are talking today about competitions where you are already known in advance, how much I understand two directors for one place in Zadar Hospital or on the other you object to the law-making process you are the representative of the coalition that 87% of the law in its term of office adopted by emergency procedure. If there's a little objectivity with you, at least the urgency of the procedure, you shouldn't be talking in this House for at least as long as we forget it or we hypernegate and come back after 10 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6639	The reply to the replica is a distinguished representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6640	Article 17 The constitution says that no one, even if national security is threatened, can punish or shut up, talk about freedom of thought, conscience and religion. So neither our Rules of Procedure nor even that is constitutional value. Now that we're talking about the shift of the sanitizers, you're talking about something else entirely. If it was, then, and it was here, and if it was here, now you're justifying your own evil and intention to someone else. By the way, we can forgive you for everything but not our own sins. So here are the people, they were the sanity managers, they were, I'm talking here and no, I'm talking about, here I'm not talking about party people at all, but about the person who's impartial, who's remedied the debts and who has to go along with this bill. And you said that they were unbiased, that they did well to stay. Yeah, what's the problem? ......... Well, then? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, then? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, that's the model I'm not even gonna be here right now, because that's not what I'm talking about. Replicate that. And about hiring in SOA where there's no need for a contest, for instance. Then how did it work? Well, that's what I told you in 2006, and then no media wanted to give you any names because they informed me about what was going on. The people you hired and who couldn't let, who had already gained their professionalism to come to them, I don't know any fishermen or chefs. And then they're just pro-circulating into the system itself. ... I didn't say anything about hibernation, I thank you for your compliment. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6641	Thank you very much. Let's not throw ourselves at each other. The next replica is distinguished representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6642	My colleague Antičević. We'd be much more credible if you'd said that when this law was passed. I said when I spoke on behalf of the club that 217 people who were in one way or another related to the health sector were removed during one day, during one night. Why didn't you react then? Now you're raising to heaven, which is your biggest problem, Kalelarg. My God Kalelarga talks about you, what Kalelarga says about me. So, what I suggest is that the Government go by the law not to mention the health system in Kaleraga and who will be the new director or member of the board of directors or the chairman of the board of directors. Well, isn't that so much a problem that Kalelarga must be the main protagonist, or aggravating factor in this law? You said and praised the current renaissance manager. You obviously don't know the health system or you don't know what this law has passed. She didn't resuscitate the Zadar hospital. She's already... That's right, but the government took over the debts and rehabilitated the hospital where the new restitution director made new commitments. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] She has made new commitments and the government has rescheduled, i.e. given certain funds to resuscitate the Zadar hospital as well as everyone else. And all the renaissance managers, so absolutely everyone created new debts and new obligations. You're at a great length with your party president. Remember the statement 20 days ago, everyone condemned it and some of the SDP who had the courage to do so. He said, so as the presidents, beware of what level, the head of the clinics are political functions. This is a statement by formerly Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic of the Croatian Government, a policy set up by the head of clinics, imagine that, a clinic here at KBC Zagreb. Now, we can't allow that, and we can't allow that kind of thinking, and payment deadlines are up to a thousand days.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6643	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6644	First we'll have a colleague in Kalelarg. There may be talk of me and you be sure not, there they don't know you at all. Now, as far as this is concerned, so this isn't about people, this is about a model that you just gave Mr. Varga a confession yourself earlier on. This is a model that you need to preserve in one way or another because for the first time it started to count, or the possibility of working on an economic account began. If you have capable people, if you have incompetent people it's the same for you in high school to get fit, they'll profit, they'll go to college, the one who's not up to it will fail, maybe some other easier school. So it was, it was a model that required ambitious and professional people and those who were. Many did not, in doing so, the problem, which they were, so to reduce debts, work more, therefore more complex, and even make money. Hospitals so on one invested, one kuna brings two. And yes, I'm proud of the last government that by hiring us and the representatives of the Zadar hospital who cried out, she was in enormous debt at 145 million kuna, and now you have a debt in the Zadar hospital of 35 million kuna and that's still HZZO's 30. So it would be 5 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6645	Thank you. The last replica of the distinguished representative Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6646	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues of Antičević-Marinović, and here on this replica, I was offered this part with regard to the resuscitators, their success because the law says that directors will be evaluated based on the success of the recovery. What we certainly shouldn't forget is that other than the rescues here, the colleagues were talking, a lot of colleagues were saying. I think my colleague Penic made it very clear that health care is missing money, because simply our entrepreneurship, our economy cannot provide that much money for health care. In addition to having to resuscitate the facilities, they often had to worry about modernising outdated equipment to give patients as high - quality service as possible. So they had to equip hospitals. And then we actually come up with a key question, and that's the selection criterion. We in the Republic of Croatia had in history successful managers who received the most prestigious awards. These managers were successful when the company or company did good business. However, when businesses and companies came into losses, these successful managers suddenly became extremely unsuccessful. It's a similar matter with the sanitizers. I have to say here right now that I'm taking off my hat to anyone who's gotten into this job, that hard job. I'll take off my hat and the one who gets on in the future. I agree with you, colleague Antičević Marinović. ... When MOST and HDZ have concluded a coalition or whatever you call it, at the moment it was known who would be the manager of Virovitica General Hospital, it is known not only by the towers, but also within the hospital. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And my personal point of view is that we should be careful about these things, too. In my opinion, the hospital director should not be an economist but a doctor, because it is difficult if he is an economist to assess whether a man needs help or not. So, the hospital and the health care should not be placed on the market, I think it should remain in the domain of responsible treatment for patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6647	Thank you. Next individual debate and distinguished representative Davor Penic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6648	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The draft law supplementing the Law on the recovery of public institutions with the final proposal for a law is problematic in many things. First of all, the problem is the way it's being passed, the reasoning and the potential consequences of the adoption of this law are problematic. First way. It's being brought in, that's a lot of colleagues before me, so it's an emergency procedure. The deadline of 14 days is too short for consultation, it was an electronic consultation with the interested public. It does not comply with the code of consultation with the public interest in law-making procedures, followed by other regulations and acts of the National Journal 140/9 of the Office of the Croatian Government, and ultimately with point 3 of Article 11. The law on the right to access information. No public hearings were held on the amendments in question. The subjective addition of the law was not even published on the website of the Ministry of Health in a public consultation plan. In the light of the above, it is not stated whether the consulting units of local self-government and administrations established are. Because they did not provide for these funds in this year's budget, because we directly force them to rebalance or you will offer some amendment to this bill to prevent the rebalancing of units of local and regional administrations, and yet this is not part of the obligations under the Health Protection Act because those as founders had to provide for funds. According to preliminary business results, health institutions covered by the Law on the Restitution of Public Institutions in the first 9 months of 2015 of these 31 institutions, 9 had a positive financial result. Because they, the promoter, are constantly calling for the review to open his eyes and point to irregularities. But from that audit, he reads only what suits him, doesn't read the entire audit report. So the financial results for the first nine months of 2015 say that 8 KBC Rijeka hospitals, General Hospital Karlovac, Požega, Pula, Varazdin, Zabok, Varazdinske Toplice Special Hospital, Neuropishiatric Hospital Popovača and one House of Health Petrinja have a positive financial result. The analysis of health institutions' business results in the recovery of the first 9 months of 2015 and comparison with their business results in the first 9 months of 2014 or 13 shows that these negative business results are being corrected. So in 2015 we have a 57% reduction compared to the first nine months, and in 2014 we had 54%. A third of the institutions, 12 which in the first 9 months of 2015 reduced their obligations compared to 31.12.2014, were KBC Rijeka, General Hospital Čakovec, General Hospital Karlovac, General Hospital Koprivnica, Pula, Sibenik, Varazdin, Zabok. Both House of Health Petrinja and Gospić. The other medical institutions under this recovery plan should have continued the rehabilitation program which I remind you lasts until 2017 when hospitals should return after the recovery to the institutions. So, these hospitals that are currently not operating to ask me to fit they still have two years to carry out the activities defined in the recovery programme to comply with the health system reform measures and to stabilise their operations so that their financial indicators are sustainable. And then they would be returned to the local administration and self-government in 2017. We have not seen whether or not the European Commission has been consulted in the light of the law supplement in question. Because the European Commission has adopted this reform package and this is defined in the 2015 National Reform Programme 8 reform measures for the reform area 4. These were new models of contracting and paying health services for hospitals, a new model of hospital management, improvement of hospital system spending control, a national hospital development plan, further development of eHealth, an extension of the general range of joint public procurement and strengthening the role of primary health care. And the eighth measure was more effective in managing human resources in health. The reform of the health system carried out by these activities is interdependent with the implementation of all the proposed reform measures and the financial result and effects of the implementation of the reform package are not easy, precisely because of the complexity of the health system and its inertness. It is not possible to implement the reform with any isolated measures or any individual measures. I remind you that 246 measures through 561 activities have been proposed in this reform procedure brought by the previous Government and the Ministry of Health. We have not consulted the European Commission and no one has asked, and what if this European Commission tells us you will not comply with the financial effects and introduce us with some measure, let's say that you stop participation. He can do that to us. Loss in the health system in more debate during today's plenary session we said they were coming. It is disputed with the treaty to determine the limits, to be more justly distributed, and also to take care of the territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia because not all medicine can be developed only in centres of excellence or in Zagreb. So we must take care of the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, the losses are caused by the ageing population, the consumption of medicines in the older population is 10% higher, new medicines are introduced, and this accumulates the system. New diagnostic and therapeutic procedures are being initiated, people are being educated and all this costs. So this loss that you justify from a billion and 800 million is nothing compared to what it's been since we generated a loss of 17.4 billion over the last 10 years, and this loss arises by generating a billion and a half kuna each year because of the increased costs of the health system. And we can only solve this to economic recovery of Croatia, to have more employees and to have more payments in contributions. Now we're good, now we've got a lot of users and a little payoff. Once we solve this problem, we'll solve the health problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6649	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6650	So I can partly agree with your debate when you mention that the loss in the health system is somewhere at the level you mentioned a billion, a billion and a half kuna at the annual level. It wasn't always like that. I will mention again in 2012 and 2013, where 2.5 billion kuna was missing for the health system as it was, as we had it. But it does not cause costs and lack of resources in the health system only increased consumption through medicines, consumption material of 10%, it is some level of the EU that every year health costs increase by about 10% but because they are not in the budget on time provided for the functioning of the health system. The current budget of the Ministry of Health is somewhere on the level, so I'm also talking about HZZO, somewhere around 23 billion kuna. And it could finance this kind of let's tell the trom or the already partially reformed health system. When you mentioned to the European Commission or the EU health systems across Europe, or EU member states, they are independent of some large laws that detect or determine which processes should be implemented in the health systems of EU member states. So you said what to get them to come now and say stop the participation. They will not, they can only come and say, increase participation, and do not put an end to it. But they have no authority, so there is no European Commission and the EU authority to regulate the health system in this way. It can ask and actually ask Member States to comply with various directives, such as the Tobacco and Tobacco Products Directive, and then we must align such laws but not in terms of the economic sustainability of the system. It is a decision on a member country that is actually an EU member.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6651	Thank you. The reply to the replica, distinguished representative Davor Penic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6652	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Milinovic, you and I are from the profession. First of all, I'm going to commend you for being the only county that hasn't given the state a chance to arrange the hospital for you to cover your own losses. And I welcome that. However, the European Commission, let's start from how a law has been passed that you want to make changes for now. It wasn't just the Ministry of Health, it was the Ministry of Finance. And if it is the basis for us to fit in 3% of inflation and 5% of deficits to maintain fiscal capacity, so as not to collapse the system, then the health system must also be maintained. And this particular European Commission can give us measures if it is not maintained, if our health system is not sustainable. That's the thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6653	Thank you. The next individual debate is Mr. Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6654	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would also like to say hello to the Minister or to the Deputy Minister, but they are gone, so I will welcome only my colleagues and thank the Government for starting by respecting in part the remarks I made on Monday on the Legislative Committee and for having addressed the amendment to this bill where it partially removed certain problems that I referred to in it, which is the question that there is not a single mention of how the rights and obligations between the current founder and that is the Republic of Croatia and the founder of the institutions that will take effect on the date of its entry into force of the Decision referred to in paragraph 1 of the new Article 9a of the Law will be settled. However, this solution proposed by the government is bad. I'm not going to talk today about whether you have the right or not to suspend the rehabilitation of health care facilities. I believe you have because it's a political decision. The political decision is how to settle the issue, the obvious question that I think we all agree about is that something with these debts is wrong and that the problem needs to be solved. However, I will speak as I believe I should speak to every lawyer and that is without giving in to whether this is about institutions in health care, whether it's about institutions in higher education, in education, etc., because this is about institutions. And what it means when there's something in the facility, I'll explain it to you because I can see from today's debate that you don't know. So why is this amendment wrong? First, because it is a constitutive moment in which the rights and obligations are transferred from the Republic of Croatia as a founding member who has become subject to the Sanitation Act, it is a constitutional moment for a decision to be taken. So at the moment when the decision comes into force and its adoption is unilaterally exclusively in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that moment the founding rights move on to the former founders of the institutions and these are, as we know, the counties. The issue of the agreement then became a matter as we will. If we're gonna settle tomorrow, if we're gonna solve it the day after tomorrow, it doesn't matter, we'll figure it out. The moment the decision enters into force, which is, as a rule, 8 days after the publication in the National Journal, it will be forwarded to the court register, as referred to in paragraph 2 of the proposed Article 9a of the Law, which will then be amended by the founders in the court register, and at that time all the rights and obligations arising from the law will be passed to the founder of the institution and I will explain to you what the problem is. However, here I will ask the Deputy Minister the following question. Therefore, the provision of the rights and obligations between the Ministry of Health, the founder of a public health institution and a public health institution referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article will be laid down by a special agreement, was not in law at the time when that law was referred to in the procedure. If there were, then, one provision would have to stand in the law, or one argument which would explain the financial effects on the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2016. Because if the rights and obligations of the former founder of the Republic of Croatia and the new founder of the county will be governed by a special agreement, that means that certain obligations will be charged by the Republic of Croatia. These certain obligations are due during 2016, so I wonder if you know what obligations resulting from the recovery of institutions that will be returned to the counties, what are these commitments, the total amount, what part of these commitments are due in 2016 and where are the positions in the 2016 budget and the commitments established, or the costs for the settlement of those commitments foreseen? So Mr. Shuker, who speaks behind me, if there is a need, will make it clear to you that the law that creates new obligations for the Republic of Croatia must provide for sources of funding. Therefore, please tell us all where the funding sources for the commitment arising from the second sentence of the new paragraph 3 are provided for by this amendment. Now, before that, I had a bit of a lamentation about the moment of the founder's change in the court register. Why? Because there is something called the Law on Institutions, and in that law we have an article 59, which says in paragraph 1. "The facility is responsible for all its assets.". Well, of course, each one for his own responsibilities corresponds to all his assets. But look, your institution is a little different from other legal persons, and that law in Article 52 has one specific item that we don't find with other legal persons in this form and it reads: "The founder of the institution is in full and unlimited responsibility for its obligations." In order to understand what solid responsibility means, we must open the Law on Mandatory Relations. If anyone is willing, I would ask him to open the law, read article 43, which speaks of a solid debtor, among several solid debtors, the believer chooses on his own to demand that his obligation be fulfilled, and each solid debtor is fully accountable for the debt. What does that mean? This means that from the moment of adoption, that is, the decision referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 9a shall enter into force. The new law any believer in any hospital returning to the county may require the county to collect the debt in full. Do you understand? The entry into force of this provision gives rise to a new obligation for all our counties. When the rescue started, the idea was for the institutions to be rehabilitated and to return the debt-free ones to the counties. This provides for the return of unsanitary institutions to the counties of which the creditors of these institutions can on the first day when the institutions cross the authority of the counties request the payment of due debts in full. This is real, this isn't medicine. What does that mean for the county? I don't even have to tell you. My proposal is first, Mr. Deputy Minister, to respond to the commitments made under this amendment to the Republic of Croatia, to what part of these commitments are due during 2016 and to which items are provided for in the budget. That's the first one. And secondly, please explain to me how the counties that have the budgets will pay the debts of unsanitary health institutions when they return to their property and with what money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6655	Thank you. We have three replicas. The first is the distinguished representative Darko Milinovic. And it's not, it's a mistake. Sabina Vosovac, the distinguished representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6656	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Grbin, you have actually detected one very interesting thing, which is that, apart from having the opportunity to hear in the debates, there has been no ordinary procedure of public consultation with the interested public in the adoption, that is to say, to refer certain legal proposals to the Croatian Parliament, that there is actually a very important component here, which is an assessment of the fiscal, or financial impact of a particular document, in this case of a proposal for this law on the state budget. I think it is something that is shown from practice as mandatory when referring to any law in the parliamentary procedure, so it sounds almost amazing to me that this Croatian Parliament is proposed to adopt a certain act without knowing what implications it will have on the state budget and that we are actually creating certain obligations in the state budget by passing laws that we do not know of, or from where it will be settled. It's just that you just said it sounds amazing to me that it would be true.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6657	Answer, distinguished representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6658	Dear colleagues of the Voice, I thank you for this replica. Yes, yesterday we discussed two legislative proposals, the addition of the Law on Defence, the addition of the State Border Control Act where I pointed out that before the adoption, or before the reference of these laws to the parliamentary procedure, it was omitted to carry out the consultation procedure with the interested public, and I pointed to the relevant practice of the Constitutional Court which says that such a failure is sufficient reason for the law to be declared against the constitutional. However, in this law I have certain indications that consultation with the interested public has been carried out. I have them because I know some of my colleagues took part in that consultation. However, I would also like to ask for a moment's attention from the esteemed Vice President, because this belongs to his domain of work and I would like to ask for a certain intervention. The proposal for a law published on the Croatian Parliament's pages on the last page states that it follows a report on consultation with the interested public. But that report is not included. And today I asked, not attached to the text of the law, not published on the Croatian Assembly pages. Please correct this mistake and deliver to us as parliamentary representatives what we have the right to do by the Rules of Procedure under Article 174. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, which is the report from the consultation with the interested public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6659	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Ana Komaraić Devčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6660	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Grbin, I think I've said several times today that this law will have great consequences for our county and for the financial stability of the county itself. And after you've explained it this way, I can say that I'm very concerned about our counties and that now I'm more inclined to think that this is the reform law that will abolish the counties, and it's actually the wrong law. I think we're going through this law to reform the county. And now I can't take that impression, because after you've apologized all this, I'm sure the county budgets will be in enormous trouble.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6661	The answer to the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6662	Dear colleagues, Mr. Vice President. When we discussed this law on Monday, I will not appoint a fellow member of this committee because it would not be correct, but in the ruling majority's order commenting on this bill to the legislator, he said do not be the undertakers of the county. Don't be the undertakers of the county, because what the MPs of most Monday when there were no journalists, we can say so behind closed doors and the camera handed to the government. Don't be the undertakers of the county. Why? Because this is exactly how the founder guarantees the obligations of the facility in solidarity with his entire assets. What's gonna happen? Someone will conclude that the hospital can't charge its debts, it can't charge them fast enough, it can't charge them effectively enough. Or he simply wants to put pressure on the founders of the facility to make sure that these funds are provided. And that's what I'm telling you as a lawyer who's been conducting such proceedings against the institutions and against their founders. He'll sue the county to make sure the funds are charged as soon as possible. Since neither county nor hospital will pay because they don't have the funds when the time comes for the charge will end up at the hospital's expense, at the county's expense. We know, we had the county situation, there were some colleagues here who knew very well about it, we had situations where due to certain institutions specifically county road administrations were blocked county accounts and the county couldn't settle its obligations. Why? Because the County Road Administrations of the institutions and their obligations in the county are also guaranteeing their assets in full, solidarity and unlimited. Please don't do this. Here, short and clear that's my appeal.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6663	Thank you. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6664	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister. My debate is going to be a little different from what's been said today because I just want to say one thing that if we pass some laws in this House, we have to stick to them. So in 2002, someone decided to decentralize certain hospitals in Croatia and own the county and then what happens to you? It's no problem that you decentralize it, but then HZZO determines the price and everything and pays you, and the price of these services is far below what it costs in hospitals. And so came the first big minus county hospitals. And that's the only truth, all of this is empty stories. That those responsible for the implementation of the Government Programme and the spending of financial resources could no longer do what you want my smallness is in 2010 proposed a Fiscal Responsibility Act which clearly states in one article that no budgetary user and its leader can spend more than what was granted to him in the state budget, than what this Parliament has approved. And that, in fact, in 2011, 2012, we drew the line and said that Croatian health care is so much longer and so much longer, that it has to be settled, and then the health minister does not get enough money in the budget as health care costs he has to warn the Prime Minister that he cannot end the business year with these funds and that health care will come to a downfall. But we defined it by the fiscal responsibility Act, not only here but elsewhere. And now I remember when we discussed a little less than three years ago about the Sanitation Law then that law really served first and foremost to cut heads in all hospitals. Then we determined in the budget that we would give 3 billion to rehabilitate hospitals, but out of those 3 billion in that year, only 1 billion were spent for reasons to show terrible progress in the fiscal consolidation of the state. Those debts were left. Last year, since the last year of the term of office of the last government was several times behind this assembly, I proposed a two or three conclusion that this House of Commons would draw some conclusion that we would commit to all those who are in health care to see what the financial situation of this health care is at last. And that we simply all, regardless of who was in power, know how much the health system of the Republic of Croatia costs as well. And then we have to say if we can do it, we can't finance it, or we're gonna have to change something. As long as we're not able to do that, then we'll deal with various fixed ideas. When I hear HZO separation from the Treasury has brought something advanced to me just to laugh. Because when you take the financial plan of HZZO and take what was once in the budget of the Ministry of Health, then you will see that in the budget of the Ministry of Health you had far more information on what 22 billion are being spent on than you have today on the financial plan of HZZO. Today, however, I even had the opportunity to hear that the finance minister had determined what would be paid at the Ministry of Health. That's just not true. All invoices and everything else comes to the Treasury and is paid from the Treasury. When you have at the end of the year, budget implementation cannot happen, for example, not to go to 90, 91, 92 percent and at the same time in health care you have a minus of several billion kunas. So these are just facts. Now, someone tell me at this point what is the minus of Croatian health care? What's the minus? So, according to some information, the Croatian Health Insurance Office has reached some 3 billion kuna and unsettled liabilities. At the same time, according to information we received from the Ministry of Finance, when the budget was adopted for a billion and 30 million more, unsettled obligations were met with regard to the Ministry of Health. However, looking at the methodology of some kind of fictional national methodology, she did not calculate all the contracts that exist inside. It's not because it's your cash system, so what you paid for is what you didn't pay for and you have to pay for it you don't see it anywhere. And then we have the situation we have. So, changing this law is just trying to put some things in place. How much will it cost no one will block the county and no county in recent years has blocked it. At the end of the day, it will be settled again from the state budget. But I'm saying, the situation is what it is, and we're having this political fight today, but no one has the courage to say Croatian healthcare the way it costs about 24 billion kunas a year. And if we don't get him 24 billion kuna, it's going to be minus at the end of the year. Because with this 22 billion and as many billions as there are in HZZO, if it creates a billion and something else a year's loss, then it's 24 billion, I don't know the other math. And whether we got the information here and it's not the minister's fault, but the services that prepared this bill for him after the Sanantia program, and what's the situation today in the hospitals that have been remedied, then you could say that this under quotes what colleagues say on the other side of the assembly that the minister is doing all this to carry out his shift. So who's going to replace people who are capable? Well, nobody's that stupid. But I'm saying, the fiscal responsibility law as if it didn't exist and we brought it into this House. I'd like to see everyone who's been arguing today that they're acting like they're in their town like they're arguing about how to treat HZZO and everything, so they'd see what it looks like and what it looks like. However, the Treasury is a project of not one finance minister, not one political option, but a project that lasts for a very long time with one basic goal that all money paid by the RS taxpayers is in one place, to be used, that the state has no need to borrow. I'll tell you in 2004 when I came to the Minister of Finance, we had to borrow money in the first month to pay the salaries, pay the pensions. At the same time, there was no treasure on the gyrocalculations of certain budget users all together when the sum was about 800, 900 million kuna. And now look at it standing with them because they want their 12th but the state has to be in debt to pay for salaries and pensions and at that point there is no such inflow of funds. And now someone's saying that a terrible thing happened in health care because it's not being paid from Katančić, it's being paid from somewhere else. That means we admit that our system isn't working. Because if our system works, if this Parliament approved some kind of money, then that one has to get that money, no one can deny it. And the order to pay those costs is given by the health ministry's financial services, not by the finance minister, the finance minister has nothing to do with it. It comes into the treasury and determines the dynamics and pace of payment. But then at the Ministry of Finance, it was known in an hour how much to whom it would be paid. Unfortunately, you don't know that today. In the Ministry of Finance there was once a briefing from 1st to 3rd where all the media in the Republic of Croatia were present on the state of income and expenditure. It's gone today. But that's why we have a situation so that today we don't know that our health care is minus 4 billion kuna in terms of outstanding liabilities. And I'm really interested in what's going to happen to hospitals that have been doing their work, exams, all living, Croatian citizens getting some better service. And now these hospitals, these HZZO doctors won't pay for it. And they also had overtime, they spent material, look, ask the hospital directors how many invoices they put out, HZO won't accept those invoices. They just won't take it. And that's a fact. Because it's amazing, you claim that the system costs so much, then you say that the system did 40, 50% more and then you say it costs less. That's great math, somebody explain it to me. I'll sign it right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6665	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6666	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative Shuker was the finance minister, introduced the first treasure. And what I would like to hear from him to answer a very clear and simple question. And that's to enforce this law and transfer rights, what my colleague Grbin told you a couple of times. The transfer of founding rights to the counties also conveys the debts that exist, the minister said there are also the transfers of these debts to the county are mandatory to pay for it. However, there is no budget for these funds. I note that HZZO is out of the budget and there is no way for the state to pay the debts as it has paid so far while HZZO was inside the budget. So what I'm curious about is what happens if the high-powereds who are waiting for their medications or someone else finishes the county. Who's gonna pay those debts? In what way will the state be able to pay the debts and get the county out of the blockade?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6667	Thank you. Answer, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6668	E, my colleague Mrsic, I have great respect for you as a doctor, but obviously one technique in finance is not clear to you. Don't be, this isn't clear, I apologize under quotes. Now I'm just going to tell you, so if you're taking some of this, then you have to clearly define what the obligations are at that moment and those obligations remain to the one who has received the money for it by then. ... Wait a minute, I'm asking you nicely, colleague Zgrebec. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So it's clear as day. Wait a minute, so let me tell the other part of the story. So it's very interesting that you guys could have worked great with this budget last year and you didn't create any new obligations. But at the same time you're saying that the current minister with the same money won't work, so that's amazing. But I'm glad you came to admit that there are four billion minuses. But just a minute, please, just a little please. So if anyone here asked for health care to write how much they owed, I was here in this House, and it was out of solidarity to colleagues, finance ministers, who couldn't say it because the situation is what it is. So I also asked for a register of unpaid bills to be introduced. Well, the logical thing is if some hospital moves to the county that this hospital director will have to write down all obligations with the day they cross over. Why? Well, because by then, the funds for those expenses had been invoiced towards HZZO. Well, it's not the cost of God's mercy. These costs were incurred by the hospital performing certain services to be paid by HZZO. Just a little for God's sake! So what difference does it make who it is? When you singled out HZO from the Treasury then you also defined some things there that cover losses, so you defined that losses cover the state. You know exactly what happened. So you need to know all the laws that are tied up, then you'd never say what you're saying right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6669	The second replica is Honorable representative Davor Penic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6670	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Shuker, I will not enter the controversy with you on the way, methodology of bookkeeping or accounting. You're stronger than me. It's true that you've detected that HZZO decides the cost of costing some diagnostic therapy procedure. And there you saw well that let's say a colleague is a nephrologist minister, before the price of dialysis on both the island and Zagreb cost 715 kuna. Now lately it's costing 930 kuna. But this does not cover the constant cost of dialysis, for example in Korčula and Zagreb. So it shouldn't be the same price, but on paper it's the same price. They're paying us the same thing. The other thing that bothers me with you. One day you're talking about centralization of payments, and the next day you're talking about decentralisation of the state. I'm short in Parliament, but that's how I experienced you. And then with that, with that decentralisation, I wonder how much you would honestly leave us with local resources. I'd be happy with 25%. Thank you. And then we'd manage everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6671	The answer to the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6672	You've never heard me talk the way you talk. When we talk about decentralisation, I'm talking about decentralisation of obligations and decentralisation of law. That's the only way we can talk about decentralisation, and this 25% story of yours was played on the willow. Because what can you give someone 25% if they don't know what they're gonna pay? So you come to those contradictions that you spoke of HZZO. So HZO determines that something costs that much, and it costs you twice as much. That's what you do when you talk about decentralisation. So, I was talking about HZZO and county hospitals in 2002 in this House when the law was passed, I'm saying it today. Someone can't tell me that I have to do this job for so much and so much if that percentage costs me so much and so much. And if I'm working for this price that HZZO sets for me, I'm going to create minuses, but I'm not to blame for those minuses. That's what I'm saying, and in 2002, I'm saying it today. And one service can't cost the same in Zagreb if it concerns some things but somewhere else. You just can't, but that's why someone who does an evaluation and an estimate of how much something costs and how much someone can make up, and that's the medics, they're not economists. He's got to say it. And then someone has to, please? Look, the difference in the whole story in health because doctors in disorganized services don't say how much it costs and that's why we're in the same negatives as we are. There's no minister of finance who hasn't gotten a hold of himself for paying a minus in health care. And that's the only fact, and so fellow Maric will unfortunately have the same fate in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6673	Thank you. The next individual debate is the distinguished representative Ivan Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6674	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's what I'm going to do in this debate. I'm going to look back on a few things. First of all, I wanted to say that this is a law that I believe does not only apply to the health system, although as we see in the amendment and the addition of the law that the problem is primarily in hospitals. As I prepared for this debate, I learned that overtime for medical technicians, nurses in some hospitals, perhaps not all were paid, for doctors were. If we know what condition the Croatian health system is in, Croatian hospitals and if we know that we are dealing with a great lack of doctors and nurses, the question is how to motivate hospital staff to stay working in Croatia, how to motivate young people to decide to study medicine in our country. Here I will mention at my university of parent FER, my generation, there was one mood to stay in Croatia as a young engineer that it was a spent life, a lost time. In this spirit I continue to say every trained doctor and medical technician who leaves Croatia is a multiple loss, because for years we have invested time, money, working hours, material to train these people, and then with completed school we deliver them to Germany or Ireland, and often lately their entire family. This looks like you've been painting a beautiful painting for years, a watercolor, and then a few days before the end, before the public presentation, they steal it from you. Or it's like for decades you've been repaying your rent for the apartment, so for the last year, you've got a problem, you don't give back one war, the bank takes all your money and still finishes your apartment. Is there an end to Croatian thoughtlessness and lack of strategy? How do you stop someone from going to Ireland today? It's very difficult or not today. This was to be considered 10, 15 years ago and to create conditions for today’s condition not to occur. I want to appeal to all my fellow MPs and MPs that we don't have time to lose people, to reduce our intellectual capital every day. And so I say again I won't support that budget that was presented here the other day, because it simply says that 2016 is a lost year, that it's a lost year. As far as the health system is concerned, I'm always in favour of a public invitation to office, not neglecting what someone said by decree. Politics has nothing to frame people into functions that are not directly political functions. Ironically and paradoxically, in Croatia, we often choose candidates in elections for political functions such as representatives, mayors or presidents, and for professional, specialist functions such as hospital directors we often give people a decree. This practice must change otherwise, after each election, we will have shifts. And we also send a message to everyone, especially young people who are looking for some perspective in Croatia that the prime minister has not given so far, that it is more important to have a membership card than experience, sacrifice and skills. It's a very bad message and we finally have to set the system of values right. And who breaks the most value system in Croatia? Here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to put a taste of my discussion on public health supplies that we haven't had a chance to hear a lot about today. So we have several examples that show that hospitals are used as ATMs for individual public money withdrawal groups in private pockets. As for public procurement we could read in the press, here is an example, the competition was published during the holidays and the deadline for reporting was so short that it was practically impossible to obtain the necessary or requested documentation. In fact, there are growing problems with procurement in the public sector and it is becoming increasingly clear that this competition model is almost pointless. There are a whole series of ways, and especially highlight competitions that are so precisely worked out that they can only be won by one of the predetermined models of cars, computers, devices and equipment, so public money is spent on competitions that are tailored to that particular bidder. There's nothing out there from the actual bidding and the acquisition of non-quality products. Or one sign like this, one other year, we've long stated that public procurement is a cancer of society, and now, by this example, we're proving it. So it's about three million kunas for the KBC Sister of Mercy. Only in the health care system because of corruption, incapacities are lost hundreds of millions of kunas a year. This is an example of Croatia's daily daily daily spending taxpayers' money. The lack of money raises the question of paying overtime for doctors and the necessary medicines, and hundreds of millions of kunas end up in private pockets each year with corruption in public procurement. He commented on it by the president of HUBOL asking for KBC's responsibility. I don't want to pick up any more of this, the Medikol affair, etc., etc. The question is, how many times has an orthopedic aid, drug or piece of equipment been overpaid without being discovered in the form of an affair yet? Therefore, I am looking for a model for more developed countries in this context to organise a special department that would specialize only in corruption in the health system. Even if it would bring some additional costs to the operation of the DORH, the damages that would prevent such a department would greatly exceed the costs of its work. The message I want to send from here is clear, as far as Croatian health care is concerned, let's deal with public procurement corruption and we'll solve half the problem of financing Croatian health care and maybe more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6675	Thank you. The next individual debate is distinguished representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6676	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here we really are here today in this House we have heard everything and most of all about the famous recovery of hospitals in Croatia, which so far indeed, especially in the past term of the previous SDP government, are freely told fairy tales, and in fact, after a certain time, the facts speak quite differently. And indeed, when we listen to the presentation of their representative Milanovic the other day as he boasted that the previous government was successful, this is just another detail about the recovery of hospitals in Croatia that speaks exactly the opposite of what they have said in the past term for 4 years. But here's also in the short time period of the new government, where they want to justify their existence for the past four years, and the government's data, in this case, speaks quite differently. We are witnessing that the beginning of 2013 came under the great titles "We will finally resolve the fate of the hospitals in Croatia.". We are the ones who know, who can, so we will make a recovery and we will pump no less than 3.5 billion kuna to solve the health issue and future of Croatian hospitals. It's been four years, it's been a while, and today we have only a few months and 900 million kunas of new debt. In April of this year it will be a full year and we will have cca 2 billion or certainly more than 2 billion debt created by the same ones who recovered hospitals in Croatia. So in Požega-Slavon County where I come from, listen to me well, they have rehabilitated Požega hospital which has been one of the best hospitals in Croatia for many years. The figures say the following, before the rescue, Požejska Hospital had a claim of 23 million kuna and only from HZZO. So something that's 100% certain we'll charge. We're not talking about other claims. The total debt of Požega Hospital was 21 million kuna. And I'm asking you who's supposed to be taking care of who? A state hospital or a Požega hospital state? Seven million kuna was a long Pacrac hospital where, as my colleagues here know, they forced us to fusion. Their debt was 7 million kunas or a total of watching, a total obligation of 28 million kunas. The time has passed and today on the day of the obligation of Požega and Pakraska hospitals are 28 million kunas. Well, dear colleagues and colleagues, I ask you, or should I say, who's crazy here? What damage was done precisely by that recovery and the past power of the SDPs fully suffers from the damage to the recovery at Požega hospital because it has just done far more damage than it has ever suffered. I said at the time of the rescue, Požejska Hospital is asking for 23 million HZZO without any other claims and the obligation to suppliers 21 million. Is that a recovery? Who's responsible for the 3.5 billion funds spent in the recovery of hospitals without anyone answering at the same time today? Is that even what we're wondering? They are sitting there all responsible who at the time claimed that the resolution would just solve the future of health care in the Republic of Croatia. A pity made greater than it was. What's further done? They have brought unrest among the citizens, by taking away the status of the Pakrac hospital, by joining Požeško, a huge injustice has been committed and a hospital that has been operating for more than 120 years. During the Homeland War, the Pacrac Hospital was a picture of the separation of unsavourable events, an aggressor who attacked Pakrac and Lipik, and the Homeland War 1.3 began in Pakrac. What did we do to these people in Pakrac and Lipik without doing anything at the same time during the recovery? What did we do to the Ship-Posavina County when we also attached the Novogradi Hospital to the Ship Hospital? The damage has also been done enormously, and this data has been reported today. That the obligation of Požeško-Slavonska and Pakraska hospitals to suppliers is 28 million kuna. What are we doing? Who are we selling demagogy to? Citizens know that in my Požega-Slavon County and are witnessing everything I'm talking about. The dissatisfaction of the people in Pakrac is enormous. We want the hospital to be in Pakrac, above all, for those citizens who are on the ground but above all for Croatian defenders to really turn this hospital into a special hospital where Croatian defenders will be treated. They deserve it because they were fighting right on the front line of the battlefield where that same battlefield separated the Pacrat Hospital with the first line of defense. The previous government has done a great deal of damage just to take away the right to the Pacrat hospital to be the bearer, the doctors were leaving us, we couldn't find adequate staff to work in the same hospital. The same thing happened in Novogradska Hospital because these hospitals are very important for Slavonia and Baranja. And the question is, what are we talking about today? And that's why this government did a good thing. And this proposal that has been made today at the Croatian Parliament to discuss exactly that and to say that you have not done well, you have not fulfilled those promises that you have promised to the people of Croatia. Let's not talk about an emergency service that's suffered a lot of damage. And thank you, Mr. Minister, for having just detected and recognised on your first arrival that the emergency service is precisely needed in order for all of our citizens to have adequate treatment. And all that you're proposing and all that's going to happen is really the right thing for our citizens in both Požega-Slavon County and other counties. And that's something we also said in the past government that it's not good. But they didn't listen to us, they were doing what they did, and that's why until today, this recovery did exactly what I'm talking about is that today we have a new billion and 900 million kuna debt and that we'll soon be over 2 billion if something doesn't happen. So I ask you to quickly do what we all expect, which is that the survival of our hospitals and the health system is indeed in that position that they deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6677	Thank you. We have three replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6678	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Lucic is in his vehement presentation and... Minister, I hope the minister rewards it with someone, something for Poželjka Hospital probably even more than she's got so far. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But since you have experience in bankruptcy, given the companies that ended up in bankruptcy, I believe that you have experience in recovery because the resolution is also one form of preventing the bankruptcy of hospitals. It's a little strange to call for the founding rights to return to the county that is in the thick minus and in the budget that has about 88 million kunas will sit down by your minus 27 million kuna, with that fat minus that you've been pulling since the years. Well, I'm not sure you'll be able to leave without the help of the state that the hospital is functioning and that the people who are being treated there at that hospital. On the other hand, a united emergency reception is something that is the fluid of medicine and that is a world-wide united emergency reception provides adequate emergency care. And anyone who divides the emergency reception won't lead to an improvement in the state. And yet again I appeal to the Government to change this amendment because this amendment is the way the Poželjska hospital is written will not, the Požega County will not be able to get the funds if someone sends you an account application for another government award to bring, to amend this amendment. He's guilty, he's not going to bring in, he's not going to save the hospitals that you want so badly in your county wing.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6679	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6680	I didn't think you were going to be on personality, but I just have to tell you like this. Wrong information you got from your colleague sitting behind you. Of the 200 people where I was a businessman today, there's no obligation to them at the same time, there's no obligation to suppliers. I'm asking you, how many in your life have you given personal income to someone that you were an entrepreneur? Please answer that. And I'm still doing entrepreneurship today and I say 140 people in the system are working. You don't know that. When you talk about counties and as followers or founders of county hospitals, so tell me how many counties have co-financed the negative results of individual hospitals over the past 25 years. Well, no one will ever co-finance, because no county in the Republic of Croatia is able to. Thus, both the current government and the minister are looking for a guarantee on how and how to ensure the work of hospitals in Croatia. Therefore, do not be demagogue if you were already in the system four years ago. But one more thing, please don't go to personality because I'm asking you just how much you've done for entrepreneurship to give someone a personal income answer me. Here in this assembly I've asked you a few times, people like that who like to be a little smart. And basically, being on the manger, being on the state budget, everyone knows it. Tell me, how many personal incomes did you give to someone? Answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6681	Thank you. Next replica, the esteemed representative Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6682	Thank you very much. For some, that winged woman is a very distinctive seven times a lie, so you know what happens after that. At the beginning of the rescue, that exactly burns 21 million, Pakrac 7 million. But he forgot to say Mr. Lucic that Požega County had 23 million claims, and the Pakrac hospital had zero claims and that's a fact. Today, right now, to precisely heat the debt, Požega Hospital is 20 million kuna. But it's still forgotten to say that in this seven million kunas is a pancreatic debt and that we still have 10 million claims that are absolutely forgotten here in this exhibit to say. As far as Požega Hospital is concerned, I'll say something more in the presentation later, and now just so much. In the last four years, Požega Hospital has not even made a kuna debt. For the last two years, Požejska Hospital has been united for positive reasons, so both fourteenth and fifteenth is positive. And as for the Pacrac mentioned, it's very well known who lit the candles for the Pakrac hospital in 2013 because she was clinically dead. And for whoever brought her back, it's known that we've brought her together, stabilized her, informed her that we've increased our income to 93% of the limit, reduced the waiting and that today's pancreatic hospital staff, the citizens of Pacrac and those who are head-thinking in the county are very afraid of the announced merger announced to them by this current current current current government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6683	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6684	So, I don't know which time the lie was told by the gentleman in question, and my words were clear and accurate at first. Before resuscitating the request of Požega Hospital 23 million, the obligation 21 million. The Pacrac Hospital 7 million, but at the same time it had about so many claims, and on today, both hospitals have obligations of 28 million kuna and claims far less.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6685	The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6686	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You told your colleague, there is no incorrect quote, but the Homeland War has done great damage to your city and to all Croatia. And the war areas of the victims really need to be helped a lot more than it's ever been before. However, I would have done just for the sake of the truth the Homeland War began by blocking the D1 road in the area of the Cetin end more precisely in the top area already in the 9th, 10th month of '90. The year the Chetnik hordes blocked, the 8th month of pardon, when the Chetnik hordes blocked the entrance of Knin, i.e. Dalmatia was no longer connected to D1 or to rail transport. But that's less important. The fact that the Požega Hospital has the best magnetic resonance, the most expensive. And that's commendable, that's nice. But that's not nice when you get in one government that's the same in power in one city and in the state. That's not good. Why? Because it's purely political here. Split needs it both in your area and in every area it needs the best machine, device, i.e. A diagnostic device. I'm not an expert, but I can say it's just not evenly distributed. And it's even worse if there's no one on those devices to work or not qualified. And large funds are used for such diagnostic devices. I therefore believe that this system of health should be decentralised and so should others, especially those areas that have much worse health services than those of these great cities such as Zagreb, Split and all others. A number of areas are spread geographically and by population simply cannot have these services. So, equality to the health care of all citizens. And on that I hope the minister will work to ensure that all citizens have the same health care, whether in Pakrac, Požega, Split, Sinj unimportant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6687	Answer, distinguished representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6688	I cannot truly understand that you are opposed today to certain hospitals such as Požega-Slavonska County Hospital, I repeat once again, one of the best hospitals not back two years but years ago and has a director who is 25 years director and who achieves extremely good results in the most difficult times and also today. So do you think Požeska would, I'm talking about Požega and Pakraska Hospital. Because that machine that was in Požega, which was in big trouble, was rescheduled for 100,000 euros and was sent to Pakrac. And Požega got a new magnetic resonance that the ministry bought on 20 years of credit, and that's what you or any other hospital in Croatia will get tomorrow. She's five months old in resonance, right, given the technology. So what are we going to buy in Požega Hospital and Požega County an old machine or a used one? What are you talking about? Well, tomorrow your hospital won't know where you're coming from, either, so you don't have a hospital, but there's going to be a new hospital next to you. Well, for God's sake, he's not gonna get an old camera, is he? And your uncle's colleague who once commented on "Sunday at 2" didn't like it. We deserve it. And imagine there in Pakrac we were just about to take advantage of that machine where just those people were fighting on the first line we gave that used-up that will still serve the Pakrac hospital in terms of fewer patients, on less demanding jobs, and Požeška hospital along with these patients that it has very much achieves top-of-the-line results. And let everyone look up to Posljak hospital. Then this minister and future ministers will have no health problems in Croatia just look at Poželjka hospital because it is a visual copy of all the hospitals in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6689	Thank you. The next debate is distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6690	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here we are today discussing amendments and additions to the Renaissance Act, a recovery that failed, a recovery that contributed to new debts, a resolution in which the sanitizers, along with the Sanitation Council, made additional costs, losses, created nepotism, employed party personnel. 800 newly employed hospitals across Croatia clearly state what was going on. What wasn't supposed to happen happened. The master plan tossing into the basket consisted of 39 pages of written text and 80 pages of tables collected from our hospitals throughout Croatia. The Master French team has been working on a plan to hire those proposed by the party. Master plan of the hospital where one Slovenian, one Belgrade resident, one from Croatia collected data that charged billions and a half kuna and made it clear that certain hospitals should be attached to each other to make it more functional, more operational, to reduce the costs of the administration, but none of it happened. Unfortunately, some departments have been shut down, and new employment has occurred. Doctors who are professional and quality have gone. Whether they went to Zagreb or went outside Croatia and decreased the number of employees of quality personnel who realized they had no perspective and had nothing to ask for because their department would be shut down tomorrow. For example, there were 27 million kunas in the Virovitica Hospital in previous times of several four-year mandates, and they were caused by partly invalid business of individuals and carelessness. Well, these individuals had a responsibility that eventually didn't come anywhere, they weren't responsible for what they caused in one time 11 million kunas of debt. Different limits and value of points have led to new accumulations of costs and debts, but then there was a recovery. And we thought it would be zero with zero, rationalization if those two departments were shut down and the number of employees was reduced, probably but we could never see as owners a plan of recovery, let alone what it got. We ran out of information, looking for no answer to any question of what it's doing in the recovery. According to the approval of the Sanacia Council, the Resuscitation Director pays her education to become a manager, a doctor who is good and good as a doctor, but as a manager, she had no knowledge, so here's the Strategic Council approved that she completes her additional education in order to manage hospital resources and implement the rehabilitation. That's what shouldn't have happened. 20 and a few thousand kunas for schooling for a manager really shouldn't have been used. Getting paid in the Parliament and in the hospital too wasn't fair. These are things that shouldn't have happened at the expense of taxpayers and all that to the detriment of our sick citizens. The sick citizens didn't deserve a cut in the department, they didn't deserve a reduction in acute hospital beds, they didn't deserve worse healthcare, they didn't deserve longer waiting lines, they didn't deserve one caus in the hospital system that happened. And as Varga did when all four directors of clinical hospitals changed because they didn't get any results but accumulated debts and today's bill tends to do the same, same procedure. You didn't manage hospitals well, you created new responsibilities and you need to be relieved. Resolved to come those who will fix the situation, stabilise the system, conduct rationalization, implement savings. It is impossible for the county congregations to be forced to make a decision to accept the Law on Restitution and Rehabilitation and that plan never came to light. The worst part is when a rescheduling director submits a report to the county assembly on the business of a hospital that has not been accepted and nothing has been accepted. Because the report clearly shows how much debt has grown, how ineffective the funds have been used. And the County Assembly decides not to accept the report. You know what happens every time you don't accept the report. You're resigning. That didn't happen. What happened in Croatia, this was all in order for this recovery plan to take political action and, clearly, to catch as many of its members as possible, what this will certainly be about in the next period, when the new directors sit down clearly. When we see all the names then we'll see how many are in the party, how many are in the HNS, how many are in the coalition partners of the Kukurik coalition. Everything will be clear as day. And just as clear as it is who's employed at the APIS, we'll see who's employed in our hospitals. The efficiency was put aside, the party resemblance above all, the debts had nothing to do with them, they were there the Sanitation Councils and the Sanitary Managers who had no responsibility at all. Well, I don't think it's gonna be like that this time. Everyone is responsible for what he receives, has legal responsibilities and must bear responsibility for what he has done. Dealing with negative results must also require responsibility, so that it is clear to all in the future that they can not cause any loss to the health care quality of the patients, who are at the expense of the work of the hospital staff, to the harm of the doctor, to the quality of their training, to progress, to their education as experts and specialists. These are all the things that are left without support, no support but clear as day. And your Minister Varga found something wrong. It's not a good master's plan, it's not a proper recovery plan, it's all just a piece of shit and it's spilling. And you've allowed him at a certain point to replace these four but these county and these rehab managers that you haven't accidentally touched because there's a danger that they can turn against you comrades partyically, comrades should be protected at any cost. At all costs. If it weren't for that, my colleague Zivko, our colleague, the parliamentary representative, is a recovery manager, one of those members of the SDP, a faithful member of the SDP. What am I talking about? Do you have an excuse? You don't. So, you take the human solution and put it on no matter how much he doesn't know about management business because she had to pay for her education from state funds, i.e. From the means of recovery to school so that she can manage. And in that great teaching science, it caused a new 32 million kuna debt. Imagine. And it shouldn't be replaced. It should be left to continue to apply this pooled knowledge through schooling in order to reach 62 million probably new debts. If that's what we think, then we won't get anywhere. We need to take a clear look at ourselves, tell ourselves what it is, the truth must always be looked into the eyes. And if she did, she made it clear that the State Audit report clearly said that the recovery plan had failed and had not been successfully carried out. If you don't trust the State Audit and if you think she's some kind of party, be sure she's not. I believe these events were the last to happen in our hospitals. to the harm of the patients and that it will never happen again. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6691	Thank you. We have a few replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6692	Thank you very much. Mr. Djakic, after the Restitution and Merge Law, have the shifts taken place? They did. And did the past government do some master plans, clean start, advice for privatisation of Croatia insurance, HPB, monetization of Croatian highways, research of the northern Adriatic we spent several hundred million kunas. What's the use? Not at all. But it's very interesting that we today don't have the real state of health obligations. We don't know what's been achieved with those recoverys, maybe something good has been accomplished. But if such a good thing was achieved, then it would be a logical thing to see it in the budget. But what you see in the budget and what the minister says all the time is about two and a half billion losses. I claim that amount is far higher. Only when all the contracts are implemented and everything is seen, then we'll see that it is. But it's very interesting, today there's a health minus as it was three years ago. And when the Rehabilitation Programme was brought three years ago, he was brought in to do something good for health care. And today, when that same health is cramping in losses, when it's said to be a little different, and then it's said, it's not because of that, it's done to make the shifts. Unbelievable! So why don't we call the same job by the same name? If it was worth anything three years ago, it's worth it today. The only thing that's common between one and the other is that hospitals are still at the same time today in the thick minus. And in the end, Croatian citizens will pay again, and that's why we have as much public debt as we have, so we have as much deficit as we have, because we're not able to call the right thing by name.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6693	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6694	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Shuker, you've made it very clear that now there's one name for the shifts. I don't know why you didn't tell Mr. Varga why he was changing directors of clinical hospital centers. Was he changing politically or were they Raj's people? These are Vargina now, and they were Rajk's. The man saw it, but he told me I couldn't treat the hospitals any differently when he came to Virovitica, Požeg, anywhere, he said I shouldn't. I was banned, and I should have replaced them all. Anyone who's not positive, at least zero, did business. It's true and now you want to admit it or not. I don't really want the hospital in Virovitica or in Požega to have happened that it's leveled, that debt has been recovered, that doctors are in office, that everything is okay, that there are no shut-down departments, the beds can be talked about. But if that worked, I'd say hello, it's well done, it's good for you. For one good step I will not give criticism, but for the bad and not only for the bad, but when the debt is higher than it was, then if 32 million is in Virovitica, if only 10 in Croatia are with 32 million smaller hospitals, I mean smaller hospitals, and where the clinical centres and the rest I think is not 2 and a half long, but that there are over 5 billion kunas. And we'll see about that when we add it all up, but it'll be quick, quick. In a month we'll have a safe debate and we'll see everything that's happened, clearly determined results. I don't know how you'll look at it then. This is an urgent move that needs to be done as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6695	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Darko Paric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6696	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Djakic, first of all, I don't think it's right to say what some SDP minister told you about something, especially if he's not here. The same way I'm going to argue here that you told me that you voted for the Croatian coalition growing because you believed in the end that it was the best thing, just a picturesque thing to do. But I didn't answer for it. I came forward because of your fascinating principle that you're simply throwing away words, facts, and you see a thorn in your brother's eye, there's no way you can see it in your own head. Yeah, someone in France or where he worked on a master's plan to rehabilitate hospitals. Yes, he worked it based on a public tender, worked it by receiving it from a public tender, came to Croatia, recorded the situation in hospitals, and gave some kind of document. Whether this document or plan is being implemented today is a matter of politics, not of whoever did it. But it is truly fascinating that you are a representative and a member of the party and the Domoljubna coalition whose programme, a complete programme of economic recovery of the country, worked by an institute from Germany. That's fascinating! How do you manage to see something on one side, and on your side you don't see no balvana, you don't see a truck of balvana at all. I don't know her at all, I can't find a word to say that a serious party like HDZ, HDZ's serious party can order an Economic Recovery Programme from the German Institute. And then that program was never seen by any of us in this country. On the other hand, your party communicated some things from that program, and at the same time they provided information from Germany that this was not the case, but that things were different. I'm just fascinated. We at SDP if we'd done something like that, we'd have been trying all these powers to cover it up and not brag about something like that yet. But with you, the unbearable lightness of existence is truly fascinating. And I just called to tell you that I'm fascinated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6697	Answer, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6698	Thank you very much. So you see when a party is trying to do something good and quality then it doesn't just work within the party committees, even though it's the best indicators within our party committees and programs and projects achieved there are compared to those from the IFO Institute and then you get something in the middle. Then it's still harmonizing with the Most and the Patriot coalition with all the members and it's getting some kind of a real framework. And that's why there's nothing to be paid for this from the board, for this from the IFO Institute, I don't know how much the party paid but it's not the State Department. The State Department has instructed all hospitals to give their tables, suggestions, and all of them to those people, and then they reprimanded and gave it as a plan. There's a rabbit in that bush. There's nothing new here. When you take that summary there are 39 pages of text that have shortened the suggestions of our hospital directors or those who have been in management and tables with indicators. Here, it's science. If you consider yourself an informer who probably knows a lot about possibilities, etc. But to sum this whole thing up into one thing and charge a billion and a half kuna, I'm sorry million and a half, it's really stupid. I'm sorry, I was wrong. ... I was wrong, I'm sorry. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But really, why? For paper that we could do anything in the ministry. Enough officers, enough experts, lawyers, economists and all those who know something in the ministry. This could all have been collected systematicized, laid down and said the decision was politically done. Why pay someone outside for what you already have at the ministry? Maybe we in the party, no matter how many people we don't have enough, but we wanted to see their experience from Germany on our field how to apply them.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6699	Time. Next replica, distinguished representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6700	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Djakic is always throwing himself off the data but I would ask him to check some data. So, the 2008 revision, so the reform reform reform initiated by Minister Milinovic, look at the audit report, the same finding of the resolutions, and I don't think that there were 5 billion at the time, has led to the change of parameters in the system. And that's been following us for years. Therefore, to accuse one party or another of failure and thus to use the results of the revision is in some sense a public delusion. On the other hand, that review finding would be much better if he were stratified at every hospital and every hospital so that we have information to see how the hospital was doing and where we have problems. As for the 800 employees again, we didn't hire someone who wasn't supposed to be in health care, we hired doctors, nurses, we hired cleaning girls. So it's part of the health care process. So to say that now these people shouldn't be employed, no problem, just fire everyone, it's no problem. But counting who is now in which party, who now has a membership card, leads to that you want to introduce that system now that health care will no longer be able to hire anyone who has no HDZ card. Last year, a million more health services were performed, 300 new doctors were employed, 1000 new specializations. Look at the number of doctors last year compared to the previous year, 100 more. Therefore, you cannot say that it has been employed by party but has been employed according to the principle that is most important, which is to ensure that citizens of the Republic of Croatia are provided with adequate health care and that we do not destroy the social state that I fear you want to see no more social state or health care in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6701	Replica response, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6702	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Mrsic, you'll never admit the truth. For you, the truth is an unknown term. A distortion of facts, too. I don't throw anything away. I'm only talking about the real facts that are caused. And I can't imagine that you support something that's created such a minus, a system that's created 5 billion minus, so it has to change to make something come true both differently and better. Well, that's clear. Why do you object to that? You object to something your ministers did the same. ... Well, we're going to cut down on the number of people you've loaded with the system on your back. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We'll cut that down. That's not necessary, that's unnecessary. There are systemsizations of our hospitals, there are exact working cards that know what is needed, which is not necessary. How can you even tell me that there was a need to employ a larger number of units? It's absolutely nowhere to be found. So, a larger number of employees on fewer beds and a smaller number of departments. Tell me, where can it be? What's that for besides incarceration? Your entanglement has contributed to this great debt. Yes, it's possible, I would understand you even if you said something was wrong with the payments, something was wrong with the revenue side, something was wrong with the expenses. Let's go see what happened here. I'd like to say hello to you for that. But you don't want to talk about it. What's on the revenue side, are certain procedures paid enough in hospitals and what's on the expense side where the leaks? Where it leaks unnecessarily and where it should end on the expense side. Where's the leak? Where does it leak unnecessarily and where should it end up? If that's what you did, I'd say hello.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6703	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Davor Penic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6704	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Djakic, you stated that the ministry, i.e. the state, took the founders to the hospital management. The founders are the county. And if you had read the law you voted here at this House then you would have seen that the founders voluntarily handed it over to management, it says in a saying, they voluntarily handed it over to management and to temporary management of the ministry of their hospital and the clinical hospital center. But to prove that it was a voluntary Lyco-Senian county she didn't give, she didn't give, she did it herself. The city of Zagreb did not give the same, it was self-recovered. Second. You said that, you caught the master's plan of hospitals, that we paid for it a million and a half kuna, that master plan in that performance never came to life, he was done later. These new things we've all mentioned today have been implemented. As regards the audit report, the objective of this audit was business stability. In this respect, the revision concerned the setting of deadlines, the fulfilment of monetary obligations, the reorganisation and the rationalisation of the system. These were the objectives of business stability. Today, we've said on many occasions that this system is not good at first, it's not well-set. We said the prices are low and those prices are dictated by HZZO. So we've detected the problems Time? [[Intruder: Time.]] I'll respect the weather.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6705	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6706	Well, here's just a short colleague. The new master's plan was assessed by all professional services, doctors' associations as missed or in nothing. The same thing as a rescue project is nothing to you. Total failure. That they had or didn't have to, what would have happened today, what their colleagues mentioned, that they hadn't given in to the management of the sanitizers, i.e. State, county account block, business inability and payment from county accounts, that would happen. And neither guilty nor debtor. The county congregations and their budgets are neither responsible nor liable for what was happening. Not control, not business, a lot of neglect, and here's what we got. We have new accumulated debts. And now we really need to discuss what happened, where the bush lies the rabbit, which is why the debts are due. Why did some of the hospitals only do positive business? Is there a difference in Croatian hospitals, about bed filling, about average time in hospitals, about minimum number of beds, about departments as well as how to treat, all of this exists in our hospitals, and we need to discuss this, where these losses are caused by losses. But the sanitizers didn't do it. I have to tell you that my county had 27 million at its disposal, I'm sure she would have taken care of the hospital and wouldn't have given it to anyone else. Because what's happened now is a disaster, a disaster that will be difficult for us all to solve together and restore personnel and departments, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6707	Thank you for the next individual debate of the distinguished representative Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6708	So we've already had a chance to hear today that it's a completely controversial, controversial procedure to pass this law. If we were to follow the regulatory procedure, then, of course, we would have to go first through an assessment of the effects of the regulations, on the basis of a specific analysis of whether it is necessary to go to such changes to the existing law, or to adopt amendments to these laws at all. Therefore, the public debate would first define whether changes should be made and, of course, the public debate in which part should be followed should go into those changes. Since all of this is missing, we have been witnessing in the House all day in some way two different interpretations of whether the recovery has succeeded, the hospital or the recovery of hospitals has failed. And here we have a chance to hear that experience is actually different. First and foremost, so no one forced hospitals or counties into the system, the system of recovery. And I, according to this bill, must resort to the position of those who believe, those colleagues who have expressed their suspicion, or, yes, expressed their suspicion that through this law, there is room to be created for the replacement of the existing Sanitary Councils and the Sanitary Managers. I'd like to be denied the time ahead of us, but I'm afraid this way, we won't contribute to the greater quality of public health services and that the end-users of the health system will feel the effects of these amendments to the law. I am equally not sure that, regardless of what is said here, it will go to public competitions, I am not sure that the quality of the work that has been done so far will be respected by the existing and resolution councils and the resolution managers and managers, and that under the knife of this law will not be replaced by those who are first non-partisan, then professional and third have concrete results. One such example has already been of my colleague Ingrid’s concern to this effect has also been the reassurance director of Zadar Hospital. The debt of Zadar Hospital, therefore in the year when the state took over from the county, amounted to 130 million kuna. Mr. Nakic knows it very well, he was hospital director at the time. And after those years, so today this debt is 35 million kuna. At this point, the hospital records the best business ever in history, regardless of what we know, we remember the times when hospitals were managed by their founders through the boards of directors and directors who set up these administrative councils and appointed by representatives, i.e. the county. Equally, this will be an additional burden for county budgets. Yes, the counties take responsibility, they will take on the grace of this law to name hospital directors through the administrative councils, but they will also take on themselves and the huge financial actually repercussions that are coming in, and these are still outstanding debts, but reduced debts of individual hospitals. So a single cut was introduced in Zadar Hospital, a negative trend was stopped, a sustainable business was established. For example, in 2015 25% more services were invoiced compared to 2014, the index increased... From 0.7 to 1.25%, waiting lists have been reduced. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With Rebro, Zadar Hospital has in the last year only signed a contract to be a reference cardiology centre for Bosnia and Herzegovina. Additional afternoons for diagnostic therapeutic procedures have been introduced. With the help of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the gynaecological department, the area for the English hall, was adapted to the equipment. There are no more warnings from suppliers due to unpaid accounts. While Mr. Nakic was the director, these deadlines were up to 300 if not more days. Some of them, of course, were paid immediately. Who was closer to the fire that warmed up better. The same director, for example, activated bank guarantees for the performer of works on the Zadar polyclinic. It's Alcom and Cetina. So it's usually a building that started to build out of self-delivery that hadn't been completed in the last 20 years, and it simply cut that Gordian knot because of the non-contracted works, the failure to remove the observed irregularities, the unexploited handover of the facility, because the performer did some of the work inexplicably contrary to what they had committed to and for which they were paid the services. It simply cut it off and activated bank guarantees worth 13.9 million kuna and opened the assumption that the building in which a single added value of service should be provided in Zadar and Zadar County, in the wider region, would rise to one higher level. However, no matter what these results would have been achieved in only 8 months, in 8 months, because the first renaissance manager was removed from Minister Varga because she did not meet the requirements that had been put before her. So this principal has achieved these results in eight months. Is it going to save her that if she reports to a public tender as the highest quality when she's chosen to continue running the hospital? I doubt it. Not because she told her colleague Ingrid that Kalelarga is buzzing that there are two other candidates, but simply because Minister Nakic has given the first interview in one Zadar medium three days after taking office and said goodbye, we will replace you first. That's true, Mr. Nakic. There's still time to show that it won't be so, so from January to today what you're up to, you decided to turn into a law to do it elegantly. It's a person who's impartial, it's a person who's professional, it's a person who has results. And such persons in Croatia, the Croatian health system needs them. They should not be denied their services because they have shown that they can and that they know, regardless of what is not from Zadar, but from Split. Here's Mr. Sanader from your county. But the hand on the heart, the person is an expert, although he came across resistance, her appointment came up with resistance because the person was not from Zadar. But I also wasn't happy about it at that point, but the fact is that this person did her job in eight months and more than she was expected to do at that time. I'm saying we'll follow what's going to happen in the Zadar area. I don't think these results speak for themselves alone, but they actually contribute to patients in Zadar and Zadar County, to finally take some concrete and positive outlines. And it would be a shame if the political cutting of the head actually denied the expertise and actually what someone was building, doing, giving up, throwing everything simply into the trash bin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6709	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear Representative Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6710	Thank you very much. Well, here's the thing again: It's not true that someone was forced to go to rehab. It was voluntary. I'll put it in an example. Between 2000 and 2003. The SDP government created such a health base in our county, also in 2005, in 2011, until 2013 there was absolutely no need for Poželjska hospital to go into this system of recovery. I am your witness that as president of the club with all my members in the county I voted against entering Požega Hospital. But MP Lucic and his members were pressured by both the mayor and unanimously went to the rescue. And now they claim someone forced them to. Well, I mean, it really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6711	Next replica, distinguished representative Ivan Klarin. ... Kirin? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6712	... [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6713	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6714	We'll do it again. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister. You mentioned, Madam Representative, that the minister has sent messages that anyone who has made a policy will be taken away. I didn't realize it that way, but I was reading the texts and I realized that the minister was sending different messages, that there would be public tenders for all directors, and that ownership management rights would be transferred from the state to the county or local units. Most likely you don't know or are not informed, but do you know how financed hospitals have been so far? And how were the funds obtained? It was a cobweb. They received a certain amount of funds under which it was to be operational. And of course many hospitals did business so they spent it on basic treatment. That's where Mr. Sincic mentioned the public procurement well. Public procurement was a twilight zone. But that too changed in a united public procurement. Sanitation directors, or not resolution directors, when the concept of recovery was introduced he was introduced by I would link it to the previous government and then the restitutional directors were introduced, the Sanitation Council. Many have done positive work on the basis of the report in the end. But I think that's a positive business of financial engineering. So it was a scam. Because I think if someone had a positive business, they had to have extra profits, and none of them even had KBC River. I know it, they didn't have it, we didn't have it. Because we eventually spent until December 1st last year Let me just say it to the end. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] We spent all the money from the cobwebs and then we worked at minus. So we've done business at a minus. I'm sorry, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6715	Thank you very much. Answer, distinguished representative Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6716	So, on January 24, two days after the appointment, I apologized before I said three, so I made a mistake, first we'll bring in a new director, I'm the new health minister, and I'll help you out as much as possible, but whoever comes here will certainly do a lot to fix the situation and that the hospital works properly. The hospital works properly, the situation is settled, and whether the minister was referring to Mrs. Bedalov's recovery manager or I misread this, we'll see soon enough. If changing her means it was that announcement, but we'll see about that, time will show.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6717	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Darko Paric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6718	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll try as in my debate and fellow Shucker said maybe a little different than most MPs. I mean, I have a feeling that for the last 25 years when we're talking about the public health system and our hospitals that we've been in some reforms all along. It's just that someone starts some reforms and they last, and then someone else comes along and interrupts those reforms and makes new reforms. In fact, we are in no way reforming ourselves, but we are constantly going from reform to half the second reform, and we are in the process of reform. And by the time every 4 years or already as we conclude that the problems remain, that they are often even bigger than they were, in some places they are smaller, but the fact is that we are always spinning in the same circle. We here today talk all the time about changing people and it's kind of become a major topic. I don't think that's the main issue, because I don't think that the choice of leading people is necessarily going to reform any hospital or any other system. I think it's more important what's inside and what's done. In my view, that we would ever make any serious and thorough reforms, first of all, should at least seem to me to know more thoroughly what is really going on in hospitals and in the public health system, and how it is actually done there today. What their business processes look like, how they manage business processes, how either car is running documentation and hospital and business documentation in hospitals and in general hospitals and in clinical hospital centres. What systems are they working with, how do these people work? How do they take care of drugs there and how do they even get drugs? How do public procurement and micro-public procurement take place? How do you store medicines, how do you care about all of this, and how you obtain expendable medical material and everything together? And what is the most important question of how does all of this end up being spent, or how does it all end up being consumed together? I'll give you an example of a small pharmacy. In Croatia there are hundreds of maybe thousands of pharmacies, but know that absolutely every pharmacy in this country is identical, every pharmacy has its own information system that takes care of sales and relationships with citizens or money and has another information system that takes care of the condition of the pharmacy itself, medicines, the purchase of medicines, the storage of medicines and the condition of all these medicines. And every pharmacy in Croatia, starting from Zagreb to Dubrovnik and Osijek, is the same. It has identical business processes and works the same way. And each of these pharmacies are doing more or less positive business, doing business positively because they have arranged and arranged all their business processes and working in a healthy manner. In doing so, money doesn't leak to them in any way. I personally think that this is one of the bigger problems in our health system which we really have in many of these things that I mentioned we have no answers and on the other hand one good part of things and the process that I mentioned in the Republic of Croatia from hospital to hospital are completely different. From hospital to hospital they don't look like each other and there's no standard and it's even questionable if any of these things are going anywhere from hospital to hospital. In doing so, we return just one minute to that pharmacy, each of these pharmacies has an internet connection all the time and with the fiscal register, say the Ministry of Finance and HZZO. It's with those who do drugs, who charge for all these drugs. And this system is arranged and as such arranged perfectly well works because it is known that everyone there is making a very good living. Now, what really surprises me is that all these years we haven't been able to sort out the system of our hospitals in the same way. As far as I know, we've got about 63 hospitals somewhere. Some are better arranged, some are less decorated. Some disasters are arranged. There are no rules. I'm talking about very simple things and they're hospital information systems. One is called a hospital information system and the other is called a business information system. When you put them together, you have one, you would say the information framework in which the hospital can operate properly and in which all business processes of that hospital will be as they need and in which all processes will be standardised throughout the country. We don't have it today, we're as far away from it as possible. If we really want to implement any form, any form of reform I think this is the foundation we should start talking about. It's not about human leadership, it's about the processes and the people who carry out these processes, which is about tens of thousands of doctors, nurses, and other nonmedical staff. Just one example, when we talk about the health system in Croatia. Croatia has a very, very good central health system, very well informed, it is HZZO. We have even received different awards and recognitions in Europe. We have e-recepts, manuals, e-reviews, different services in e-citizens and the like. One banal example, there is an e-citizen service in which every citizen of the Republic of Croatia can see what medicine his doctor has prescribed for him in general practice and at the same time can see how much this medicine costs. That's the kind of service we wanted to do for both medications and procedures that patients do in hospitals. It didn't work out. You know why it didn't work out? Because hospitals don't keep records of everything they do to patients and patients that way. Both medications and procedures and any operations that are conducted there. And absolutely all of what I said cost money and absolutely all of this HZO and this country pays. And we don't control it systematically either. And that's why we don't have to ask ourselves why our money's running. I am deeply convinced that despite the good system of this central, central health system that when it comes to hospitals that money does not run through our fingers but pours through our hands, precisely because of these things. And I'm going to cite for example one of the two huge systems in the Republic of Croatia that care, probably about all the money in this country, that's tax administration and customs administration. These are your two far-reaching systems in the state today, and everything that's going on there is deeply, deeply informed. All the processes carried out there are within some programs and everything. And you know why? Because... Can I ask the MPs that as we speak, I apologize but it really isn't right. My colleague Djakic, so I listened to you, so I'd like to ask you. Thank you. As I said, tax administration and customs administration are the two most informative systems in this country and there, fellow Shucker, you have absolute merit in that and all the honors. You know why that is? Because they have long realized that taxpayers' money is not so easy to play with and that taxpayers' money has to be very responsible and that all processes have to be standardised, that it's the only way to keep things in check. And believe me, there's a saying in information that says that error is usually somewhere between a keyboard and a chair, or we're presuming that it's a human error, that it's a human factor. We can do as much recovery as we want in a health system or any system, we can do whatever we want and change people as much as we want, but as long as we don't lay the basis for information, and as long as we don't inform and establish the right way, they're making processes that go standard in any place of any kind of reform, any form of information, believe me it won't be anything. And I'm convinced that if you're still doing something, and I know, given the work that I've been doing in the past years, that there are absolute possibilities for such a thing today, that all hospitals including KBC can be informed in the mandate in this country. Not only will neither you nor we nor anyone else have to resuscitate hospitals or make huge reforms, but you will see a good new amount of money in the system that you haven't saved, but money that we haven't unfortunately thrown away. That's it, I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6719	Thank you. We have two replicas. First respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6720	Thank you very much. My colleague, I agree with you that humanology is actually not a fundamental problem for our health care. There were always people who would be good, who were good, who would be worse, who were worse, and definitely whatever the system was going to be, that's how it's going to be. The information you're talking about, it's basically the problem of all systems in our arrangement. However, information in the health system is also a technical tool that can contribute greatly to the rationalisation, useful spending of funds. But I think the problem is even deeper. We have the most rational spending of resources I think we'll still be in trouble because there's one disproportionate in the triangle or looking at the isolations that we have for health care in the costs that we have and in the rights that we have. In fact, health care quite often reminds me of the situation of coming to an expensive restaurant and I think I need to get everything for a hundred kunas. And I think that's actually the deepest problem. We can spend the most rationally, but I have the impression that we'll always miss the money. And this information is excellent, it can lead to major savings, rationalization but the problem here is much, much deeper.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6721	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6722	Thank you. I didn't try to give a complete solution to everything. I was just trying to point out one of the good ways to do something. My experience is, say, from the Department of Administration four years ago when you talk about birth certificates, housewives, wedding papers and stuff like that. Every citizen of the Republic of Croatia to take out that paper had to travel to a place where he had done such a thing. I had to come from Split to Zagreb if I was born by accident in Zagreb and vice versa and the whole system worked. But with too much money and redundancies that weren't really needed. Today you can take all of this out anywhere on the Internet via e-Citizens. I'm not saying it's something that's changed the public administration thoroughly, but it's something that's given new meaning, new services, and it's started to change public administration. Because we really live in a time when our citizens ask us to be in this world of the Internet. If citizens can do 90 jobs with their bank online, they expect us to do the same in public affairs. And indeed, what has been through any studies, any practice has shown that information and processing of business processes saves money. I'm not saying we're gonna save these two billion that are being mentioned that we're down or I don't know how much. But I'm deeply convinced, we'll fix the system, the citizens will be more satisfied, everything will be as it should be, and we'll save some money. What we save, we transfer to something where we need it. We were talking about a ride for the students or anything. There's always room and places where money needs money.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6723	Thank you. The second replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6724	Mr. Vice President and Mr. Secretary, Your Honor. Information is very important and it is being introduced and introduced, but it is not the one that will solve the problem in healthcare or can be solved, but in my opinion, the resolution can only be carried out at higher prices or economic prices of services. That's what we talked about a long time ago. I believe the time will come when the system is still improving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6725	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6726	Just a quick answer. I agree with you completely, only at all times we really need to keep in mind that we are a social state and that we must ensure that every citizen of our own, no matter where he lives and what property is provided the same quality of the service. And if we agree on this, then you and I have the same attitude. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6727	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6728	Thank you very much. In my opinion, the Restitution Act has results and good results, and I think that should continue to improve it, of course, to supplement it. But also from this angle that hospitals went into rehab for three years, so in 2016 at the end of 2016, it comes out. That this was well done to me is also evident from the findings of the State Audit when we are already calling on it, as the opinion given in the audit shows that the objectives are not only to be achieved in terms of meeting the deadlines set by law. Of course, the inherited situation was extremely difficult, that they had a fiscal and crisis and that perhaps those deadlines could not be respected as they were drawn. But there's always a possibility and there's a possibility of prolongata, and there's a possibility of goodwill. But all right, who's stronger, I know that clutch, but he takes responsibility. The team, and the more the one that is currently crouching, is, say, the government of Tihomir Oreshkovic, in this explanation, she wrote, here I will quote: "The process of resuscitating health institutions has not fully achieved the objectives set." I repeat, it's not entirely. I agree that if there's five or ten percent of something left to do that we shouldn't continue by cutting it to the end, that we might jump a cow because of the steak. That's my opinion. And one more thing. The resolution has been notified to the EU or to the European Commission as one of the important reform measures and I think that perhaps my opinion should have been contacted by the Commission or at least notified of these intentions where it is now heading. But one more thing about today’s steak and the debate. That steak was all about the shift of directors or the shift of resurgency managers. It's not the most important thing for a health care system. I'm sure it's not, and personally, I'm vaccinated from it, from these party and exchanges and postings. So I don't see it that way and I don't think it's the most important thing. At the end of the day in this assembly, everything was important. The only thing I don't think anybody mentioned was the patient. But when it comes to changing things, I'll tell you something. I listened here in the assembly, there was, and there will be. That's what HDZ was doing, doing shifts, and SDP. Here's just one example. Of these 30 renaissance managers who were allegedly appointed by the spirit of the SDP, the letter and the number of them were 14 in those two years and replaced. Col. Djakic tried to turn it over to Rajk's managers or I don't know the Vargina, but the fact is that they were removed or those who couldn't respond to that moment couldn't answer that request. And that's why they had to leave. So it doesn't matter if it's an appointment or a public tender. I think it's probably a hollow story. It's all about money and how to settle those old debts. We now have a proposal to go back to hospitals to founders or counties. Okay, but we don't have an answer for what this is about debt? We have an amendment that doesn't make any sense to me, but okay, somebody's gonna make that clear. On the other hand, the system must remain sustainable. The mayors of money don't have it, you know, and they don't even have enough to pay off those old debts. So we have this amendment, I say we'll see what happens to him at the end, but I think he should be different and that this form can't go. And we have an announced reorganisation and rationalization on all elements, fields that I've seen but we have nothing concrete that we can determine for, say, this kind of change of law, nothing concrete. Since you've all been back in your discussions in your neighborhood, allow me to mention something about Požega Hospital, regardless of how some of you are or are being adopted, and then attack so that they're completely unclear what they're saying. However, it should be noted that Požeška hospital in its category is the best hospital in the Republic of Croatia, that waiting lists there are minimal, that 4% and 16 thousand patients were processed more last year compared to the previous one, to reduce the number of beds in the stationers and increase in the daily hospital. One piece of information, that 76% of Požega-Slavon County citizens are being treated in požega hospitals, which is the best result in Croatia, that for 2 years Požega hospital has been operating positively and that the last 4 years has not achieved any minus, no debts. And perhaps another piece of information, that Pozega participates in the overall hospital system with 3% and participates in the total debt with 1%. I guess that's quite enough to say what kind of Požega Hospital was and what kind of politics was being conducted in Požega hospital. And there were mentions of the merger between Požega and Pakraska Hospital, I said something about it. I said it was known exactly who lit candles to that hospital in memory and it's known that we brought it back to life, it's known that we stabilized it, informed it, increased revenues, etc. And I said that, and I'm going to repeat the staff of the hospital and the citizens and the authorities in the county are very much afraid of the separation of that hospital. Representative Lucic mentioned that there is great dissatisfaction in Pakrac that the hospital is connected. If I were bad and I was bad, then I'd say what you're waiting for, now you have a chance, split it up and see what happens. I'm saying the moment Požeska and Pacrac Hospital split up that the Pakrak Hospital is clinically dead. Here, that's what I was gonna say. Maybe since I have a few more minutes of untrueness again. It's been mentioned that we bought a magnetic resonance at Posljak Hospital for 20 years. That's not true, for six years a total of $11.2 million. But nobody mentions that Mr. Milinovic bought four magnetic resonances that are much weaker than the one that's hot because Požega has the best magnetic resonance, which are weaker and he's got them for 50 million. Recalculate that, 12.5 million each. And there's also a lie here, and that's that, not that you are but that we are, that the profession has done it and not you, as you said, rebuilding a 0.25 magnet, that we've restored it or that it's restored not by 100,000 euros as said but by 300,000 kuna or 50,000 euros, which is true and what's the fact. And it should also be said that in 2.5 months, how much that magnet works in Pakrac in 2.5 months has already invoiced 350 thousand kunas. So there's no minuses. Besides, Pakrac covers Sisak, Novska, Kutina and the whole top end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6729	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6730	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Ronko, I agree with you a lot of times in some conclusions and settings, and we've talked a lot about things that are bad and that need to be fixed. So did Mr. Ostovic when he lost his president's political credibility. A man came for a minister who wanted to be honest, to act rationally, and all those who were not functional, who produced losses to change. And put those who will correct mistakes, which system will put into function, which will rationalize and make certain savings. But he left with the KBCs and got a restraining order. You won't go on, yet it's our party comrades and comrades need protection no matter what they do harm... in the budgets and patients and counties and the entire Croatian people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The problem is that a good step will be stopped, stopped at the beginning. If it was done before, I'd say, I'm taking off my hat, Mr. Varga, you've taken a step forward. This way we can only conclude, the debts are too large and huge in the wake of the time managed by the sanity managers, the damages are irreparable and it is necessary that as the amendment will be defined to take over the payment of these debts by the state and to complete the recovery and then orderly work to be measurable on an annual basis and sanctioned by all those who will cause new debts.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6731	Answer, distinguished representative Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6732	Thank you very much. If you watched the TV Network last night, Professor Ostojic was visiting and said he sat down for coffee with then Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic and that they concluded that he was tired and that he could no longer do the job. ... Yes, Professor Ostojić made a big deal, a big step, and it didn't go any further, and when Minister Varga came, of course he had to do the job, of course... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Of course, let go, of course he had to do that job and Varga did during Varga, not all but 14 had to step down. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And some of them wanted to stand down. But I must tell you that no one as many ministers, former Minister Vargu, has praised this assembly as Minister Milinovic today. I don't know what you're saying right now. I don't get it. He did a good job because when he came with the new crew, he did it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6733	Thanks, it's over. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6734	Here, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So this debate today has actually shown how important the health system is to all of us. Here, instead of actually discussing the Resuscitation Act and what the recovery did, the debate went into a number of things and in suggestions on how to solve the health system, which actually speaks in favour of what we want to say now, which is that this way of the current functioning of the health system in Croatia is not sustainable. They wanted to admit it to me or not, so two years ago when it started to resuscitate the debt of institutions that amounted to over 2 billion kunas. 3.5 billion kunas invest again in the system and 2 years after that you have new debts that amount to over 2 billion, 2.5 billion kuna. Well, didn't they just say that to themselves enough? So this way would lead to this if we continued for some 3, 4 or 5 years, it would become a matter of financial sustainability of the health system and would actually endanger what has been mentioned here several times, and that is to ensure that we ensure that every citizen in each part of the Republic has the right to health care. If we do not implement the reforms, if we do not enable the financial stability of the system we will not be able to guarantee either quality, nor will we be able to guarantee order within the system or the financial sustainability of that system. By amending this Sanitation Act which has not achieved its goal they want to return to founding rights, they want to return rights to the founders, their founding rights to the counties. This will achieve decentralisation of the system. What is particularly important, therefore, is to achieve communication between the people at the head of these institutions and their founders. Well, look, it's incomprehensible that the counties should have been after 2 years of the implementation of the decision when a decision on the recovery was to be taken back, to take their founding rights and never to discuss in the county, the meetings of the county assemblies, the state of the institution, whether they have the right to information. Do the directors of institutions that, regardless of which county they are involved, need to communicate with their owners, with local self-government, should all make progress and joint care about healthcare professionals? I think that's clear for all of us here. So it is also the desire of this very law to achieve decentralisation, to involve more local self-government in the functioning of health institutions. And it would be hypocritical to actually demand that the debts of these institutions settle these counties. Here, more than once, there is actually a thesis that does not fully stand, which is that the debts of these institutions will be paid back by the county. And here it is mentioned on many occasions in Požega County which I am very pleased with. But no one mentioned another fact and what about clinical hospitals. So clinical hospitals are owned by the state and their debts should be paid back to imagine who? The state, the same county actually unable to repay the debts of its county. Well, of course it's not sustainable. So we're asking that all over the country we all have the same situation, the same rights. So here we now again advocate that Požega County returns the debts of clinical hospitals located in Zagreb because it is a state. Požeška County is part of the Croatian state indivisible, as is any other county, and that the city of Zagreb will not return. So that's what we have now. We want this part back. So we want to return even more to, of course, the role in decision-making, the functioning of institutions has become more and more local self-government, that the state and I have announced it in reform measures in which there will be further words and that we need to make sure that the system does not actually decide on each. The state will have, we need to build a state hospital, but we'll talk about it when the hospital health system reform begins which will be highly challenging. But not to be obliged further, so it would not have happened that the counties were responsible for the debts that we had made, and we wanted to put it into the decision and then the government accepted at yesterday's session the amendment which suggested by the Legislative Committee to be included in the bill, so it was included in the bill of law that these newly created debts would be settled in agreement between the ministry, the institution and the founder, and at this point the county is aware that the counties themselves cannot repay those debts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6735	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We have five replicas. The first is Honorable representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6736	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Yes, right at the session of the Committee on Legislatives held on Monday, one of your colleagues, my colleague, said this law could make us gravediggers of Croatian counties. However, it was not removed by this amendment. That's what I was talking about. It wasn't you. It was your deputy. It is not removed because the consistency of the return of counties or the return of hospitals to counties stems from the decision referred to in the first new Article 9a. They're enrolling in court registers. The conclusion of an agreement after that may or may not come. It is not a condition for the return, and in accordance with Article 59 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The law on institutions of the founding institution shall be in full and unlimited responsibility for its obligations from the moment it is entered in the court register, and that will be from the moment the Government delivers its decision to the court register. This Regulation shall enter The law on mandatory relations read it. This means that a believer can pay the full payment of his debt and choose from whom those debtors will ask for their demand, and he will ask for the one from whom it is most easily charged. However, my replica will be directed to you next. During my discussion, I asked for an answer to a simple question. With this amendment as it has been formulated and as you have now further explained it, it is that certain new obligations arise for the state which have not arisen under the original text of the law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am interested in the total amount of these commitments, the amount of these liabilities to be waste in 2016, and I am interested in which item of the budget this is provided for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6737	Next replica, distinguished representative Davor Penic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6738	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, I will be brief, I will rely on it. Today we have lost all day to talk about how it's not good that an axe instead of a surgical knife solves specific problems of a health system that is very complex. And I was curious, and now the minister said that last night at a telephone session, they came out with the amendment that the founder of the institutions and the ministry would agree on how to cover the debt. But the agreement does not show how new commitments will be resolved in the future, because today we have found that this is a system that generates 100 thousand kuna daily generates loss. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6739	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6740	Thank you very much. If you mentioned Požega-Slavon County, if I believe that no one crazy will do it, unless there is separation between Požega and Pakraska Hospital the least problem is for Požega-Slavon County what you intend to bring back to the founders. The hospital was not supposed to go to rehab because there was no problem. And now that she's out of rehab she doesn't have any problems and I'm talking and she's united with all those minuses Pacrac had. So, so much for Pozega, because she was doing a profession, not politics. As far as this other guy is concerned, I've only got one more finding and a question. So someone here mentioned that in some past time there have been 12 resolutions, 7 reforms, there will probably be more and more. I'm not going into your good intentions, but we can't get an answer on who's going to settle that debt. Okay. Not the state, okay. No county, but who will? Where we're going to find these funds and how they're going to move on, because the founders are going to have to rely on the pharmaceutical industry for what Miranda said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6741	Next is the distinguished representative Ana Komaraić Devčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6742	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Minister, you said that not all citizens of the Republic of Croatia pay for the recovery. The recovery is covered by the state budget, the state budget is charged with taxes from all citizens. But it doesn't matter now. The important thing is that the the thesis that makes you propose this law, that the recovery, the Restitution Act, did not bear fruit and that the debts are there and that they are generated further. Well, that's your main thesis. And now I'm asking you, when do you transfer those hospitals to County debts that are? Debts remain, there are and generated new ones. Oh, yeah, if my minister, you know if we didn't generate a new one? That you came before us today with the health reform of whatever it is you imagine we brought it and then that we went to all these other laws. Then maybe there wouldn't be any more health debts. But I guarantee you that in a year all of what we're talking about today you'll see the debts will be there, there'll be a new one, and the county will be gnawing in trouble.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6743	Dear Zgrebec, the esteemed representative, next.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6744	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Minister, you're saying by returning the hospitals that were in the recovery process, you're going to decentralize. That's not true at all. They will only return to the same level they were before this recovery. In fact, they will be passed on to the real founders in which they were and who, after a year, would be again. But it won't solve the problem of those hospitals because there's no additional funding. If the county could have done so, they wouldn't have even gone to rehab and the county would have made such decisions to transfer their founding rights to the state. And I will also say that this amendment should nevertheless be resolved before we accept or do not accept, as who, accept this law in some way because here it says the agreement will resolve the debts between the three entities that are in the process. But at least we know, at this point we know that one of these entities doesn't have that money. This is the state, the state budget. In other words, it is said here that you from your ministry will give part of the funds for the recovery of these hospitals. Read well, he says they are returning to the founder, rights and obligations between the health ministry, that is, the Ministry of Health, the founder of a public health institution and public institutions will be determined by a special agreement. So, the obligations still standing in those hospitals will be deployed to these three entities, one of them is a state, and we... What do you mean? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But we don't have it in the budget and we shouldn't accept it at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6745	Thank you. And distinguished representative Tulio Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6746	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I must say, with this final address of yours, you have failed to convince me to support the adoption of this new law. In fact, at today's session, the same questions have been asked a number of times... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6747	Please allow the representative to finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6748	I personally don't care if you change directors or if they're going to be left, if they're going to be right, I'm interested in being the manager who's going to run the hospital so our patients get the highest quality service. I'm not a doctor, I'm not an economist, I'm not a lawyer, but as an engineer, I know what it means to provide a quality service. Three conditions must be met. First of all, quality. We know hospital equipment, quality staff. Let's say that's what this is about, that we have it and that we're going to have those doctors back who went out. The second element that must be fulfilled is speed and efficiency. Let's just say that with the changes and reforms that have been so far, these procedures have accelerated. And the third price is that service. Our patients and customer service require cheap, however it is impossible to meet. So that service if it wants to be quality and efficient must be expensive. Mr. Shuker said that in 2002, he said that he said the same thing today. And since I'm not an economist, I've concluded that there are always 2.5 billion kuna missing today. With the bill, I don't see how we're going to make up for that 2.5 billion kuna. Today I read that through this new agreement, by transferring founding rights to the counties that have brought their budgets and believe me that there is simply no such money in the counties, there is no state budget, we are passing a law that has no basis for resolving the financial situation in our health system. And that's why I don't see how, you didn't convince me, you didn't give me the answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6749	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, come on. Let's go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6750	My colleagues and colleagues, I tried to tell you today, if all these debts were recorded, they would have to be recorded, then they were recorded in HZZO. And HZO is obliged to settle them. So we can talk whatever we want.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6751	Thank you. I thank Mr. Secretary and all of you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We'll be back at 9.30 tomorrow. Session adjourned at 6:30.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-17-0.u6752	The following is the Final Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Restitution of Public Institutions, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 19. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. During the debate, the Government submitted an amendment that becomes an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 202. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The amendment was also submitted by the Committee on Law adopted by the government. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the final draft law supplementing the Law on the recovery of public institutions. Please vote. Who's in? The vote is over. I find that with 84 votes for and 44 against, no abstentions have been passed a law supplementing the Law on the Restitution of Public Institutions, along with the amendments adopted. Good morning, colleagues and colleagues. Before we go to point one, I see two of them raise their hands. The first is Honorable Representative Radimir Cacic, please.
