ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u17819	Here's my colleague Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u17820	Thank you, Chairman. I demand a break to warn of non-compliance with the public service raise agreement by 6% and the consequences resulting.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u17821	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Puh.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u17822	Your Honor, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HNS and HSU club. The theme is the waste management plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u17823	Thank you very much. You got it. And distinguished colleague Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u17824	Dear Vice President, I demand a break on behalf of the HDZ Club, given the latest data on the consumption of new psychoactive substances, the increase in gambling among young people in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u17825	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u17826	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u17827	So the fourth break of the Club of Representatives of MOST's waste management plan. That's it, I'm giving a 10 minute break. So we move on at 9.45. Thank you very much. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] The first is the Club of Representatives of the Living Wall esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u17829	Thank you, Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. The government of the Republic of Croatia signed an agreement with state service employees in 2006 guaranteeing them a 6% increase over the next three years. However, although the pay has started to increase by 6% already in 2009, the government has returned the base back to the old ones so that the contract annex promises that the salary will be, therefore, increased by automation the moment the GDP rises by 2% to two consecutive quarters. The conditions, therefore, for the salary raise, were earned at the latest on 1 March of this year, and some say they won on January 1st. It has also been signed that a parity with salaries in the economy will be achieved, so the salary of a person with high professional equipment will be at a minimum of 95% of the average salary in the economy. However, although the conditions for meeting this contract have not been increased. And now we have the right to justifiably ask ourselves what the government is going to do with this contract. Because as we have seen in recent days, the teacher's first private lawsuits have already begun, and it is announced that police charges will also go. This will specifically mean that the government will have to pay not only all the obligations under this contract, but that it will have to pay them up for the costs of the proceedings as well as interest. I would now like to ask the Government here which has given its mandate the foundation of the parole credibility that you can, therefore, call on what is called justice if you do not respect the contracts signed by the previous governments, which is the most important of all the government that came from the same parties that are now making up the government. Is it possible, say, that citizens don't respect signed contracts? Can the citizen who signed the contract with the bank come to the bank and say I don't respect this contract. I don't respect the 6% interest rate. I'll be paying the one-and-a-half-percent interest loan from now on. Is that possible? Is it possible that a man I don't know who has to pay for the director's electricity or the water says I don't have any money right now come next year and then I'll pay you? He can't. And a government that should be an example and a role model for all citizens, it can do that. So this government is all just untrustworthy. Also, colleagues from MOST, you said there would be some change in policymaking, and you don't respect what's signed. What are you talking about? You're bringing budget rebalances here, some kind of GDP growth story, the deficit, and all the stories are, so one simple delusion. You're cheating on the public. You can already say in advance that the budget deficit will be higher than you planned, that GDP growth will be lower, that expenditure will increase. You haven't solved one fundamental question, so in the budget, and for that, you've had a full year. And what were you waiting for? Last minute, you were waiting for a lawsuit. The worst of all, this government has created mistrust, additional mistrust in the institutions, and it turns out that the problems created by some previous governments will have to be solved by our children. So, the contract that was signed in 2006 when someone was 17, 18 and went maybe to high school, he's 27, 28 now, he's employed and he has to suffer the consequences of a non-fulfilling contract made by a government in the past. So if you don't respect the decisions of the previous governments, then say, then we annul all the laws that have been passed and the previous summations of the Parliament, so let's start all over again. I think that some basic, as the culture of political life is called, should go in order for every contract signed to be respected. And choose to respect what you have signed, and if not, then also be prepared to bear all the consequences that will result. Don't take responsibility for someone else that I see all the time in this esteemed House you keep doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u17830	Second debate, dear colleague Maria Puh on behalf of the Club of HNS and HSU Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u17831	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I would like to look back at the waste management plan by 2022, which is still in public debate for a few days. Namely, this plan is one of the strategic documents of our further development, especially as regards waste management. What's quite shocking is that this program was built pretty much to say from the hills, from the valley. So the plan mentions terms that don't exist at all in professional terminology such as... compost. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The data that are missing in the waste management law itself are listed in order to be contained in the Waste Management Plan. There are no concrete figures in the plan, no number of capacities currently in place in the Republic of Croatia, and I believe that we should definitely, we have a few more days to fix, improve and put into the waste management plan itself. We're aware of the fact that we still have a very short deadline for this plan to be made, because we're going to have an opposite penalty. But a lot more needs to be done, repaired and seen, maybe some suggestions that have come about changing the waste plan. What is quite absurd is that we plan to set ourselves some goals that are not even prescribed in the EU. We set ourselves to recycle 60% of the waste, the EU directives say we need to recycle up to 50% of the waste. I don't see why you'd give me much more homework than they're actually needed because that's why if we commit ourselves to a larger amount of recycling then we'll have to pay for the foam because we won't do it. It's actually very difficult for us to get to that level by 2022. The 60% mentioned in the plan is in the public debate of some new directives, but we are not obliged to put it in our waste management plan. Among other things, some waste management buildings are listed in the plan itself, but it is absurd to list inside buildings that do not have work permits. So in one strategic document, the Republic of Croatia, I think it would be a shame to list buildings that don't have permits. One of the other items in this plan is quite worrying, it's dangerous waste, it's not a large amount of waste. So the Republic of Croatia has only 3% of the hazardous waste in its total waste, but it's been working on a pretty large amount, so that's about 35,000 to 40,000 tonnes at the annual level, and we pay 800 million kuna from our budget for its disposal, and we usually export that waste. So we should also work on some solution to how to take care of this dangerous waste that wouldn't be so expensive. Then let's say the absurdity in this waste management plan itself that in one part of the plan mentions that waste mud does not exist in Croatia at all, and a few pages later it says that the disposal of waste mud must be improved. Another very important item I urge the ministry to do so. The waste management plan lists the composts and mentions that we have a shortage of composts which is both the fact and the deadline for their implementation until the end means we set ourselves a 2020. The composts don't even have specific locations where they'd work for now. So you know for yourself how the procedures are going and that you should first go into changing spatial documentation in the preparation and implementation of the projects themselves, so we have again set ourselves a plan and one goal that is impossible to achieve by 2022. Here I appeal to the public debate until 2.12. I know that it is a short deadline for us to do so because of our obligations towards the EU, but I appeal to all those in charge and to the ministry to respect the remarks that will come and that this plan should be done as a strategic document which we will not be ashamed of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u17832	Thank you. Next debate, Club of HDZ Representatives, distinguished counterpart Ivan Celic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u17833	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. From 15 November to 15 December, the Republic of Croatia marks the Month of Combating Dependence. The owners of preventive programmes are the County Institute for Public Health in cooperation with local self-government units. The latest results of European research on smoking, alcohol consumption and drug use among students have recently been published. In Europe, this research has been conducted since 1995 among students who are 16 years of age in the calendar year. Thus, although there is a tendency to reduce drinking and smoking in adolescents, part of the European tobacco policy measures introduced in the last two decades and alcohol, Croatia is, unfortunately, still ahead of the results of both alcohol and tobacco consumption. What is particularly stated in the ESPAD report is the emphasis that has been placed on new psychoactive drugs, unmoderate internet use and online gambling and gambling, so for the first time it was the aim of this research. Partly used data other than ESPAD are important research data on the health behavior of children, young people, children of school age. So that compares three age groups of 11, 13 and 15 years of students and students and what is worrying about all these statistical indicators Croatia is always at the top of therefore always among the first five countries, mainly as regards the age of first alcohol consumption or smoking. So according to the latest results in Croatia 38% of students never smoked cigarettes, while 62% had that experience. So according to the 2015 results, 33% of students aged 15 to 16 in Croatia are current smokers. What is the problem also in Croatia is 72% of students say they can easily or very easily get cigarettes. As for alcohol consumption, according to ESPAD 2015 data in Croatia 92% of students in life drank alcohol, 55% in the last 30 days, and 16% experienced drunkenness in the last 30 days. So this phenomenon of consumption in one day puts five or more alcoholic beverages back at the top of Croatia compared to other countries not only the EU but the whole of Europe. As I come from the field of treatment of addiction as a psychiatrist, I can therefore say that one of the national brands in addition to transplant medicine and treatment of opiate addiction, so there is always Croatia at the top of the opiate addiction, however, indicators for young people, for under-age talking about the need for further development of preventive programmes that will be organised by competent services, so primarily for school medicine and metal health services, prevention, extra-patient treatment of addiction in the county public health institutions. One of the measures that certain units of local self-government have introduced, such as Vodice, Nasice, Rijeka, Osijek, so they have adopted a regulation at city level on the ban on drinking alcohol in a public place and is an indicator of the local self-governments' positive prognostic outcomes. As regards the use of psychoactive drugs, therefore, Croatia is above the European average according to the consumption of illegal drugs in life, thus 22% of students say that at least once in their lives they tried drugs. Once again, the biggest problem of these illegal psychoactive substances is the consumption of cannabis or marijuana, and according to the USAD study in 2015, nearly a fifth of students took cannabis at least once in their lives. It is therefore necessary to develop further preventive programmes at the level of the county, at the level of units of local self-government, with particular emphasis on Internet use, playing games and gambling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u17834	Thank you very much. And the last debate of five minutes, a distinguished colleague of Nikola Gromoy, on behalf of the Club, a representative of the Most. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u17835	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the colleague has had an exhibition on the waste management plan, which is important to emphasise that the public debate is still ongoing, that all constructive remarks and proposals will be respected but should also be stressed that the SDP was not where the plan was made in time. Therefore, the EU's EU pilot has EU rights violations and this plan, which the government intends to bring under the leadership of Minister Dobrović, is a plan that respects the circular economy, which is concerned about circular waste management, which does not favour the waste mafia and major waste management centres. We know that great funds have been beaten into this, we have Mariscina where 40m euros have been sheltered, and this large centre is not yet functioning and it is not in function at all, and the fact is that what he intended to bring in Minister Zmajlović for our citizens to pay more waste management, so that we would pay for burning instead of separating useful raw materials, which Minister Dobrović intends to change and that will happen regardless of the great resistance. When you question composting and you mention the concept of composting, I must warn you that management was the base of waste management because if we separate the waste, then everything else is easy to separate. And then that process goes in the right direction. Those who attack the composts are usually advocates of these big centers, which is exactly the junk mob I'm talking about. 65% of recycling is the EU's new targets by 2030 and paper is 90%. Why would we set ourselves some kind of minimum that's now set at 50%? Well, I guess we're interested in setting some more goals especially if it's going to benefit our citizens and if they're going to pay less with waste management. And not that those who are the great advocates of those centres where the waste would be burned and then we would still pay for it, so our citizens were paying for it means we're going in their favor. I am certainly not for that option, I am for the option recommended by the European Commission means where we get a letter to support this concept in which new centres can be said to be considered only if all existing capacities are used. And I think that this direction that Minister Dobrovic took is a good direction, that it is a shame that the previous ministers did not go in that direction. It is a man who understands the problem and who will certainly be able to correct it if there are things that do not stand and need to be changed. And I am sure that Croatia will get a modern waste management plan and most importantly that waste management will pay less for our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u17836	Thank you, too, dear colleague of the bush. Dear MPs, I warmly welcome you all. We're continuing at session two. I see there are some interested in taking a break, but here's just to make this introduction and then we'll take a break. As announced yesterday, we will continue to discuss the tax laws package. At a meeting of parliamentary party representatives' clubs, it was agreed to conduct four joint discussions on tax laws. The right to have a united debate on the first two points of the consolidated agenda is: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, Second Reading, P.Z.BR.28 and - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Profit Tax, Second Reading, P.Z.BR.18. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to the boxes. These legal proposals will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, and you received reports at the session. Before I give my word to the proposer's representative, I invite you now to speak to the honourable Minister of Finance, Zdravko Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19786	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Therefore, according to this proposal, I will refer firstly to those key amendments and amendments that we have proposed in the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the VAT Act or in the Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax on Profits Act with a specific apostrophemation, which is potentially amended, corrected in relation to first reading. The first reading where we had a constructive and dynamic debate here in the Croatian Parliament, and also at the government level in terms of additional consent, because in all these proposals that we will discuss these days, you can expect that there have been certain technical and nomotechnical additions of the bill so that they will indeed in this form, which were given before you on the table, justify this epithet of the final proposals of the law. As far as VAT law is concerned, I'll just repeat myself. So, according to this proposal, it was the biggest and part of the debate was actually about VAT rates. So we keep the system with one standard rate of 25% and two down by 5 and 13. The 5% rate remains unchanged, while the following categories cross from 13 to 25. These are the hospitality and delivery of sugar, while from rate 25 to 13 pass the car seats, the supply of electricity, the public service of collecting mixed municipal waste, the delivery of urn and leas, and the delivery of instructions to agriculture, seedlings and seeds, fertilisers and pesticides, agrochemical products, and cattle food as we called it in the first reading, and here I would point out that we explained exactly what was done in terms of the category of livestock food compared to the first reading. So, to be precise, it's animal food other than pet food. The provisions on the services of doctors on the ground are also specified. In order to implement the exemption independently on the legal form of the supplier, it is proposed to supplement the provisions concerning the exemption from VAT payment for medical care in the context of medical and auxiliary medical care activities as well as services provided by dental technicians, and the delivery of dental prosthetics, substitutes supplied by dental technicians and dental medical doctors. Also, we are in the framework of the Government's debate proposed to amend certain points of Article 131. In order to clarify the application of the infringement provisions and the erasure of paragraph 3 containing provisions on the protection of the prohibition of the exercise of activity, in view of the fact that the measure in question is prescribed in Article 54. Infringement law as a general rule. Therefore, the whole of Article 131 of the applicable law has been amended. What I would like to mention here regarding the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the VAT Act that there are certain proposals which cannot come into force, i.e. according to this proposal, come into force after obtaining consent from the European Commission, so we have in this proposal, the final draft of the law, and we have provided for them with an entry into force of 1.1.2018. This is, above all, a deduction of pre-taxes for purchase or rental, and related services in passenger cars and other means of transport whose value does not exceed 400,000 kuna, and an increase in the threshold for entering the VAT system to 300 thousand kuna. On that first element, I'm talking about a 50% deduction on pre-tax or car rental. These are, of course, measures that will directly affect entrepreneurs in terms of simplification but of course also greater liquidity, but in particular this measure concerning the raising of the threshold for entering the VAT system is something that will make it much easier for those who are somewhere today to be on that edge of the existing 230 threshold. As regards the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Profit Tax, I will repeat once again that in this law, that is, in this proposal we were guided by the principle in any case of simplification, abolition, elimination of certain reliefs, releases and exemptions that made the system quite complex and difficult to monitor, i.e. implementation. But at the same time, he sent a very clear message on the tax discharge of the Croatian economy, i.e. entrepreneurs. So, what's important to mention, so to reduce the overall profit tax rate from 20% to 18%, with those taxpayers whose turnover does not exceed 3 million kuna per year, and here I'm going to say we're actually talking about 85% of the total Croatian entrepreneurs. For them, the profit tax rate is practically 12%. I repeat again. So, we're removing reliefs mostly from the one the biggest debate was being held in the first reading, so I'm going to explain it a little bit more in advance. It is a relief for the reinvested profit that I repeat again I was sure I was introduced with a good idea and a good intention to use it and to encourage the investment activity of entrepreneurs, i.e. Croatian economy. However, its results and effects are as follows. In the first two years, the tax relief was used by 1.8% of Croatian entrepreneurs, and the effect fiscally in terms of the budget was significant. Thus, there was a reduction in the tax base of slightly over 7 billion kunas, i.e. in translation, that is some billions and 400, billion and 500 million kunas of tax reduction. Afterwards, there was one correction in the law itself which meant a little service of the criteria and conditions of use of this relief in terms of the number of employees and the obligation to invest in long-term material assets, which actually meant less attractiveness for entrepreneurs, and this number was reduced. In 2015, the reinvested profit, i.e. the reinvested profit relief, was used by 0.8 entrepreneurs, and the total amount was somewhere to reduce the tax base from slightly over 2 and a half billion kuna. So, I repeat again. So these figures and all that is related to this relief, and I have to point out one more fact, which is that that relief under the law can't and couldn't be used by craftsmen, could not be used by institutions, and some companies, since, by the letter of the law, they are pronounced as such exceptional. So we think that there was one good part of it and the element and some inequality, if you want injustices, or injustices amongst, within the Croatian economy, and that is certainly one of the reasons why we have decided and why we suggest that this relief be lifted. But, of course, it's being translated into this strong message, and I'm going to repeat the reduction in the overall profit tax rate from 20 to 18, and for those whose turnover does not exceed 3 million kuna to 12%. As far as the other categories of this system are concerned, we have kept the relief for the areas, supported areas of the first category of 50%, and one change compared to the first reading, we have also noted the comments we heard during the parliamentary debate but of course also in the context of what we were conducting as a debate at the government level. So, for the city of Vukovar, there remains a 100% relief. These newspapers and all these changes come into force from 1.1.2017. As regards other details which have been changed, therefore, the infringement provisions and the article of the law governing the payment of taxes after deduction have been amended. The exact time limit in which the tax is paid after deduction is specified. The law is also nomotechnically regulated according to proposals between the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee where the deadlines for the adoption of certain regulations are laid down, and the reasoned feedback of certain provisions with the application of the 2016 corporate tax application, in particular the article u5. a final draft law on write-offs other than those of the NPLs. When I mentioned these NPLs here, I would just point out that, as you know, we have anticipated the possibility of fulfilling our commitments under the National Reform Programme, as well as following the recommendations of the European Commission, and, of course, some of the experiences of other countries to deal with this form of tax system in the treatment of non-refundable and hard-to-charge loans. Therefore, a one-off measure in 2017 as a expenditure shall be recognised as the amount finally written off to the debtor. Here I must again specify the first reading we added an even clearer statement in the sense that the law complemented the debtor to receive a statement that there is no debt. So I will repeat once again, this proposal that we are going before you or the Croatian public is in this sense that credit institutions have the possibility of a one-time write-off during 2017 with the state of these so-called so-called so-called credit institutions. Bad NPL loans from 31.12.2015, but that write-off must be final. They're equating, of course, with no change in tax-unrecognized expenditures, what I would say about the change compared to the first reading, I'm going to point out once again the situation that we also presented in the first reading, which is that we have given one opportunity that we consider to be welcomed and accepted by the economy, and here I mean not only great entrepreneurs but also all those businessmen who have several related companies and companies or other forms, which is the possibility of identifying and making so-called. transfer pricing agreements. This is one problem that we thus show a very clear message that the IRS is certainly trying to be a service to citizens and entrepreneurs where and where more and simply be at your service. Compared to first reading, this is also enabled for interest rates between taxpayers. Namely, the possibility of establishing a tax-recognized interest rate and applying transfer prices is prescribed. Due to large fluctuations in the financial market and open foreign borrowing opportunities, it has been observed that the market interest rate from the Republic of Croatia cannot always be the starting point as such. The taxpayer will now be able to choose the option of determining the interest rate using the transfer pricing method and the interest rate published by the finance minister. And these are about the most important notes I would like to say and mention, before we open the discussion in the second reading, there were some other petty ones, let's call them that, technical and nomotechnical finishings compared to the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19787	Thank you, Minister. We have six replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Ivan Klarin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19788	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister. All this sounds wonderful and wonderful, but I must conclude that this is a complete tax reform, that you break it over the back of a sector, and that's the catering sector. With this you destroy numerous families that are engaged in hospitality, not on the Adriatic, on islands in national parks what wonderful and beautiful it looks like, but in rural areas especially of my Dalmatia. It pains me to see that numerous rural households have announced the closure of their rural households in view of the huge increase in VAT rates. I have to conclude, unfortunately, and I believe that even the boss is engaged in catering that VAT would never jump from 13% to 25%, so I'm going to call this tax reform the head of reform in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19789	Replication response, Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19790	I'll call you, however, the honourable representative, regardless of the rhetoric you're using. And I'm going to use the same law as the minister and state official since I'm a guest here, to give you the same words. I'm going to call you Mr. Honorary, although I'm not entirely honest with you in view of your rhetoric. As for hospitality and what you've said countless times, I've also said in the first reading that in this way we're returning the tax rate that was reduced three years ago. We believe that in this way we do not do anything like you call it, damage or excessive reasons for the closure of business and so on because in the overall and comprehensive tax reform that you have sat more in the context of the first reading here in the Croatian Parliament and that you have read more of the laws we have proposed then you would see and see the comprehensiveness of the reform that, for the catering sector on a whole series of elements, mainly on the side of the imput foresees a relief and reduction of costs, but also as important as it is, especially for the catering sector and on the demand side. Thus, this tax reform also provides for raising the available income, raising and, of course, investment in general business activities that will eventually be seen on certain elements in the hospitality itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19791	Thank you. Another replica of the esteemed colleague Željko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19792	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I also have to teach what my colleague Klarin said to express his dissatisfaction that you have not observed a single comment from the debate in the first reading about VAT in catering. Here you are today, if you have had time to read a statement of coordination of the hosts of the Primorje-Gorski County protesting their relationship, they are also protesting that no quality public debate was conducted which even the Minister of Tourism knew no details about what was proposed. I cannot agree with you on what has been answered by counterpart Klarina because it is clear that the preferential VAT rate in catering and tourism is the only tax regulation that has led to all three positive macroeconomic effects of increasing net adjectives in the budget, growing investment and increasing employment. And now it's the only tax regulation that really is abolished by this tax reform. I am therefore sorry, Ministers, that you did not respect the many remarks that came from the field of people who have just shown their justification for the preferential rate. I am also sorry that you did not respect the statement of tax exemption in the reinvested profit where also a large number of entrepreneurs from the Primorje-Gorski County asked for it to be done. And another suggestion, what you have stated about VAT-free wages in some medical activities may be that you may still be able to include the activities of the logo in your amendment. So the logos are deficiting in Croatia, there are very few of them, many parents would have to wait for years to come to health institutions and those who go privately freeing VAT would have a cheaper service which would mean a lot to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19793	The reply to the replica of Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19794	Thank you very much. I would not repeat what I just said about this last topic that you said about logos and some of the others, so we can say activities. The EU VAT directives therefore speak very clearly, so in what cases it is possible to go with VAT exemptions. So first of all, it is taken in the form of a structural form, so if we talk about logos or any other activity if they are carrying out an activity that allows the profit and income to be used, then, as such, they cannot be exempt from paying VAT. But I would point out here, however, this element that I have initially said is that we have suggested that after obtaining consent from the European Commission go with raising the VAT threshold from 230 to 300 thousand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19795	Thank you. Dear colleague Gordan Maras, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19796	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, in your debate, you said that it would lower the VAT rate to certain things such as electricity, municipal services, and in a picturesque way in one show, you explained that one average family that does not have any benefits from tax reform would earn 4 hundred kunas each year, meaning 4 hundred kunas each year, one family, or 330 kuna, 30 kuna per month. On the other hand, tomorrow your Income Tax Act will allow one manager in a trading corporation and his wife, for example, who earns 15 thousand kuna a year in some company to earn a year or more 10 thousand kuna, 20 thousand kuna, 30 thousand kuna, 40 thousand kuna, 50 thousand kuna, 60 thousand kuna. This, according to your tax reform, changes to the set of laws, is an average family, 400 kuna a year, 30 kuna a month, 60 thousand kuna family that you advocate manager in a commercial corporation and wife who does a well-paid job. Officer, cashier at the mall, manager on this side. That is why we cannot support these amendments to the law neither on VAT nor on income tax because of the fact that you are making such a distinction between Croatian society. Sixty thousand kunas will make the rich in their pocket neatly, they won't spend it because they've got too much money anyway. This will be one average or good car a year for such a family and on the other hand this will be said I 30 kuna a month for this average family. The picture speaks more than a word, look at each other, 60 thousand kuna for the manager, 400 kuna for the family.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19797	Thank you. It was really dramatic, I was watching a colleague of Arsen Bauk's and he was afraid it was his money and it was almost special for them. It wasn't easy for him. Here you go, fellow Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19798	Thank you very much. Here's the honourable MP you've very picturesquely replicated my opening statement, though I haven't said a word about income tax, but I'm still going to refer to myself because I've talked about value added tax that even a few times we've talked about in the opening debate, regardless of what you're saying, I need to reiterate that tax laws are mainly income tax is not a law that defines how much pay or gross remuneration is paid for their work, but is talking about how much of that gross salary is taxed and indirectly cut. So, in this regard, we are talking in this proposal on tax redundancies, i.e. a reduction of tax obligations for taxpayers of income tax and then, of course, an indirect increase in the available income of these same citizens or taxpayers. As you are also now commenting on how much the pay is going to go to, I am also saying that, in terms of tax discharge, we in relation to the current 915 thousand people who are currently not in income tax scissors with these tax changes, we are releasing the next 580,000 total income tax. So I'm going to repeat one more example, and that's, say, a person who makes about a net income in a ranking of about 8,000 kuna nets with two abstentions, two children in the City of Pula, or the City of Slavonski Brod, so according to these changes, his tax discharge is 318 kuna. 318 kuna is the maximum tax charge that the taxpayer may have because he is currently paying those 318 kunas. So it's impossible to charge him with tax changes for more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19799	Thank you, too. The fourth replica is the esteemed colleague Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19800	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, I would like to express my satisfaction with this occasion that in your first reading, you have accepted the proposal of persons with disabilities that VAT on orthopedic aids does not grow. This allowed people with disabilities to be active, because if VAT on orthopaedic aids and went up a bit, there would be a situation where people with disabilities can't buy an orthopaedic aid. Therefore, any orthopaedic aid that is operated as an active orthopaedic wheelchair, and for the next person with disabilities, must be charged, cannot be purchased for those funds provided for in the orthopaedic aid Regulation. This allowed the situation to remain as it is and people with disabilities can still count on their activity. I also express the satisfaction that you have accepted and some interventions in some other laws that we will talk about tomorrow, so I will not mention it now. But here I believe that in the following year, we will also find ways to find even better-quality solutions for people with disabilities in tax regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19801	Thank you. There's no response to the replica, so we're moving on to the fifth line. Dear colleague Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19802	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. So here I would say that my pleasure would have been much greater if it had been able to accept that suggestion that rural tourism in, and providing itself means eating services are also entering that reduced VAT rate. But I also understand your concept of a comprehensive reform, and with this part being reduced, means VAT rates on agricultural products are in principle in a way helping these rural tourism in that part, because they are actually selling their own food there. And that was kind of why I suggested something like that. At the very least, I would always look at the thing to help those who live in difficult conditions, to help those who are in rural areas and to help those where they are primarily users of domestic consumers. And it would satisfy me more personally if that reduced VAT rate for catering in these rural areas was continental, not the part where most foreigners came to us. I have nothing against foreigners, I'm for them to come, absolutely and for the development of tourism. But what's there is. I welcome this part of the tax changes, meaning in this part of the VAT reduction that has remained, although there has been a talk here about the need to consider the situation with a reduction in VAT rates on veterinary medicinal products and on veterinary services. I hope that in some, here is the time that lies ahead of us to discuss this equally seriously and there may be another such improvement in order to preserve domestic production.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19803	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19804	Here's a thank you, Your Honor. You have also made several very constructive proposals and comments in the context of your first reading and in your discussions. Some of them were able to fit in and adopt as you yourself say and mention about the category we have called we characterise as rural tourism, i.e. related to these activities. You have well recognised that we could not make certain differences in the forms of individual tourist activities. But in any case, you have also recognised this effort in terms of agricultural instructions, i.e. relief mainly for those who are not in the VAT system, as well as those who are liquidative natural relief. I remember saying that myself initially, but now you've offered me the same good comments on the possibility of using reduced VAT rates among other things here and on mentioned veterinary services. Those within the framework of this proposal are not such, but surely in some of the following steps, which will consider further discharging the Croatian economy and in general we will also be leading the segment. I remember that you, among other things, have also appealed to the possibility of applying reduced VAT rates to certain products, so I will refer to myself. It was children's diapers. The children's diapers, unfortunately, of the directive as such at this time do not predict that it is possible to go with them at a reduced rate, so as such we couldn't even include them, and the same thing because I think it was in the context of the first reading and discussion of e-books. However, in this field of these e-books, the initiative was launched and it was opened at European Commission level or EU level as a debate to be opened through changes to the EU directive to be used. Of course, if it is available at a certain time, we will take that option into account, of course, as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19805	Thank you. And the last replica is a distinguished colleague, Tomislav Jagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19806	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Maric, I once heard a flimsy definition of economist that he is a man who will explain very well tomorrow why what he predicted yesterday did not happen today. You, a fellow Whiteman called you an accountant, I don't know if he had any intention, a good accountant, intended to insult you or not. I think you're a good accountant, a good mathematician. And I believe that everything you've balanced and what you've been trying to achieve from your point of view with this tax reform has been achieved. But what worries me and so I learned in life and they told me, once my late friend told me, always listen to people, listen to people around you, especially older ones, because they've been through it, they know what it's about. It seems to me that this communication is missing between you and the example of the caterer. I don't understand how you say they're increasing VAT by 12%. That's not a small amount. On the other hand, you're talking about tax cuts on income and profit taxes, that will make it easier for them to do business. I wonder how that communication failed? They had seen me from the media a big protest, they left the gym. So they say it's a major blow to their business, after all, and any reduction in VAT rates is in some way also a subsidy. How from your point of view, how can they really cover it? Are you sure that this won't affect their business and that many of them won't put the key in the lock tomorrow and stop dealing with this activity, especially those who have invested a lot in the development of hospitality, and not to mention Slavonia and those who, because of the economic situation, are difficult to collect daily traffic from thousands of kuna, for example, have you really thought this through?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19807	Thank you. The reply to the replica of Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19808	Thank you very much. Your Honor. So the short answer and simple that we are, of course, in the very creation of tax reform and all of those analyses that we have done, we have led to certain knowledge, assumptions and all of those predictions in which and how to agree on tax reform and discharge to make it feel as many Croatian citizenship and entrepreneurship as possible and ultimately that we have as good as possible and as much positive effect as possible on the Croatian economy. I was talking about this, and I'm going to repeat in this reading, so if we're talking about a full and comprehensive tax reform, we're talking about a total tax discharge of about 0.6% of GDP, 2 billion kuna, which if you look at only isolated domestic sectors, domestic citizenship and domestic entrepreneurship, we're even talking about a slightly higher discharge of nearly 0.8% somewhere around 2.5 billion kuna, which certainly will have its own certain repercussions, so perhaps even more important to raising economic and investment activities, which will have a return positive impact on GDP above all in terms of raising not only GDP one year. In 2017, research by a number of international respectable institutions such as the OECD, and similarly shows that tax disbursement mainly in the direct income tax segment and profits raises a long-term potential growth rate of the economy. And that's what Croatia needs at this point and not just at this moment, but really in the long run the most, to raise the potential. Our forecasts are that this tax discharge raises the long-term GDP rate between 0.3% and 0.5%. Of course, we will indirectly have certain back-up effects on budget revenues because it is certain that this increased consumption and activity, or investment, will return to the budget, but what is perhaps most important, and this is the taste of the whole story that it is not only necessary to raise the potential rate of GDP but rather to raise jobs. We predict already in the first year between 6.5 and 11.5 thousand new jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19809	Thank you, too. Before we move to a club debate, do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word, we have a Finance Committee and a Legislative Committee? No, I don't. We're going to a club debate. The first is SDP advocates' club and distinguished counterpart Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19810	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ministers with associates. Here's today's second reading on tax reform, so we've united VAT and profit tax. A lot has already been said here through public debate and through this first reading, so perhaps I will stress just a few more points, perhaps the minister in some final word is still giving us some statistical additional information, which would certainly contribute to the debate itself. Certainly, as far as VAT is concerned, there are certain positive intensities, it is reducing VAT to a certain part of municipal services and the supply of electricity, and if you see that the same rate is 13% of this supply of water, so all these certain utility services are at some rate of 13% which we consider to be good. Why? Because surely in the coming years investments, regardless of the forms of infrastructure, in the water infrastructure, in the municipal infrastructure, are the infrastructure of the supply of electricity, that the amounts of all those who do so are significant. It is primarily in this section that public enterprises have strong, significant investment cycles and they will certainly enable them to in one such way not to transfer that part of their investment cycles to citizens and I think that's good. Now, whether the final price for citizens will ultimately be that much, but we believe that because of the strong investment cycle that they used to use these rates, however, they will use the possibility not to transfer one part of the cost of investment costs that must not be transferred to citizens. When we talk about the overall effects of VAT here, I can't look back on the overall guidelines that the government has shown and show how VAT is going to move. The VAT is the most important, most exhaustive revenue from the state budget and we see that it amounted to 44.4 billion kuna in 2016. In 2017, with these guidelines VAT was projected almost two billion more in the budget means 46.2 billion kuna, 2018. 47.8 and 2019 close to 50 billion kuna from VAT. 50 billion kuna of VAT revenue in the budget. Just to get some kind of general impression, the VAT before the crisis means somewhere in 2006, in 2008, it was $37 billion. We collected 37 billion kuna at that time from VAT, it came to about 40 billion and this rise from 23 to 25% somewhere around 40 billion kuna, we fill it with 50 billion kuna in 2019. Just to be aware of the amounts, let's see how much that's a total discharge to the citizens. There is certainly one part of the calculated growth of economic activities but we also had economic activities in 2006, the seventh and eighth ones that we have never had in Croatia. So we believe that there is space if such projections are up to 50 billion kuna in the budget that there is a safe possibility that both these proposals of representatives clubs and individual MPs should be adopted especially when we talked about certain food products, those products that are dominantly produced in Croatia. I've talked more than once about fish, fresh fish because we're marine land. I think it would be good to be part of an article, and we see today when we talk about these number of salmonella problems, etc. More and more people turn to fish. I think it is one of our products that could certainly have one part of the product, also a certain part of the food products that are dominantly produced in Croatia. We know that we cannot put VAT lower on Croatian food because we are on the single market, but one part of the product is certainly produced in Croatia on one basket of products I certainly think that there are opportunities in future periods, there is room especially if this is highly projected VAT at 50 billion kuna because all neighbouring countries are from Slovenia, Hungary, BIH etc. All of us border countries have a lower VAT rate on certain food products. So there should certainly be considered whether there is a possibility and what would be the food products that we consider especially when we know that a basket of products used by Croatian citizens to certainly encourage an additional part of Croatian agricultural products and that this is a good way to go, and we see only in the next year where 2 billion kunas are more projected in the budget that you could be given space for sure. Also, as regards certain acts of VAT reduction, we absolutely welcome the inputs in agriculture. We just need to see what the real effect will be. I was here with a colleague of the former minister and he gave me one piece of information, and I think it's good that the minister also explains what import means, how much these inputs cost in Hungary, how much they cost in Slovenia, how much they cost in BIH, so it wouldn't be in that part of one import spill. As far as I got information here, all these countries have a higher VAT rate, I don't know about Bosnia but probably for Hungary and Slovenia they have a lower VAT rate than Croatia has. And that part should not be overrun, the import lobby will come to us especially with these agricultural production instructions should flood Croatian markets and endanger the business of Croatia's petrochemicals and such producers. And we think this is a good incentive for both Petrokemia and our input producers to be more competitive in this work. And that's why we absolutely support it in that part, but we would do well to see that analysis, to see how much domestic production of such products is on our market, how many imports there are, how much we know there are no more of these barriers where we can prevent it and how we can see it and what that positive effect is going to be, and not just on the Petrochem of the domestic producer, but to actually prevent that part and the floods of the import products. We absolutely support this part of increasing the threshold to 300 thousand kuna for entering the VAT system or, as you know, the former Government of Zoran Milanovic exactly that part from 85 thousand to 230 thousand, and we have spoken from 230 to 300 thousand I see that it will go into 2018 because it needs to be supported by the European Commission that it is good and I think we will have to say the most competitive part in the region that small entrepreneurs can do business and that they will not be, that they do not have to cross over especially into the cross-border countries means Croatia-Slovenia, Croatia- Hungary that they will not have to cross there and set up companies because today the single market because of this entry into the VAT system and always needs to be watched by competitive countries as they have and how they run their tax policy because it is not easy, in fact, we are also surrounded by border trade. What I would certainly like to say about profit taxes, I support a general reduction means rates from 20 to 18 and for small to 3 million kunas to 12%. However, what was good to see exactly that statistic. Here I may have this maybe, I like numbers, and I often like to see how many companies from 20 to 18, how much it means to less in the budget, how much less that means because the statistics of the tax administration have very high quality statistics and how many entrepreneurs up to 3 million kunas are now going to pay 20% and how much they're going to pay at 12%. It means that it is indicative of the real impact on the budget. And here's the question, and as well as the tax administration mechanisms can control that there's no establishment of a number of companies of up to 3 million kunas so they don't switch, so they don't move, so now somebody has no idea of 4 million kunas, and then they start a company, traffic transfers to it, and they don't pay that 18% more than they pay 12%. Because it is certain that today you can very quickly start companies so that this flood does not happen to these companies and thus enable one transfer of people to take advantage of a certain lower rate. I think it's correct, this is about the tax on profit that in unregistered activities you take one flat-rate especially because it's very difficult sometimes and we know from the tax administration's activities to define a certain non-profit organisation, which is economic activity, which is, which is not, which is also the same thing you have a problem with the catererer. Some are in the VAT system and carry out their activities, and they later have a lot of them in that part of the hospitality so they make their own undefined clubs, etc. And then they say they're such a nonprofit organization. But I think there's a lot of work on that, to define it. Also, certainly what is important to say is actually a fiscal effect, so not only a statistical indicator of what is large for businesses, what are for small but certainly fiscal impact of these measures where these reliefs are given to banks, we finally see that the minister and explained that it is a final write-off. We'll see what the banks will do at the end, what about those to whom the banks have already sold claims, for example. They've already corrected them, and these are, for example, writes off, doesn't write off these others, and then it's only been given again for a year, so again after a year, the bank's gonna sell it. So you should see, strictly watch out for this effect of bankers, and if they are given this kind of relief, I certainly think that in that part they should not seriously consider terminating the case against the Republic of Croatia. But I think this is one big step for the government to show that in, not that the same second we should, but that we should certainly reduce the pressures that have worked both on the budget and on the government and the former and present around the collection of their so-called. claims they had about the conversion of the Swiss franc. He'd only say very briefly about the transfer prices here. I think that's one question that's being opened to us today, especially on these agricultural issues, so on. bad agricultural products that came to our shelves. I think it is a difficult, difficult problem that is not simple in the European Union as well. I see that here defined the possibility, especially means the transfer prices are located... for large taxpayers defined by large tax entities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it was precisely a hindrance of domestic producers, or domestic and commercial chains, that through the transfer prices foreign chains actually pushed their bad goods onto domestic shelves and thus pushed the domestic producer because we simply had a low standard. And that's how we got these chicken, etc. 10 to 15 kuna, and we know that a certain cost of production of such a product cannot be below 10, or 20 kuna. And in this way, the transfer prices are they and this is a question which is not only open in Croatia, but also a question in Europe where they pushed our products, they did not pay certain prices, and the transfer prices did not pay certain taxes, and we know that they had and did not pay taxes on profits such large trade chains, and they paid a certain profit tax domestically. Simply in this way Croatia can also be protected and should protect and exploit all rights as other countries do, to protect their production. Not in the way that it used to be done through certain customs. However, transfer prices are a very important issue that I absolutely support here, and I think we should also form a special team at the Ministry of Finance, that is, the Tax Administration of the Office for Large Taxenarians not only with additional education, but also with the first steps towards such transfer prices and thus to prevent not only what the Minister of Agriculture is doing from entering such products, but simply asking him how it is possible, how it is possible to sell it in Croatia. You imported, you drove, you have transport costs, transportation costs, and some chicken I don't know from Scandinavia should be brought to the shelf in Croatia, paid for all these costs and dejections etc. and that you are 50% cheaper than the Croatian manufacturer. So who's my crazy people here? So how is that possible? Where's the economic account? And in that context, I think we need to strengthen the IRS that right through these transfer prices it's actually shown that there is also in that part of it and not a fair competition, not a fair match. Because through total, I say through their total support or certain subsidies from their countries, in such a way enters the market and actually destroys certain competition. And here maybe just for a little while. I see that this particular section is listed here, I have nothing against it, just maybe to explain more detail the import of machines and equipment of a million kuna related to this VAT effect, not to be paid immediately at customs, but to go into the accounting section. Now, the only question is why a million kunas if someone wants to invest and work and some maybe smaller craftsmen and some smaller entrepreneurs who want to get some less equipment for some part of them, and maybe that means liquidally to them. The question arises that it may be possible for small entrepreneurs and craftsmen not to have to pay immediately from the purchase of such equipment immediately during customs duty, but rather for that part, as is now permitted for those who purchase equipment larger than one million kunas, to have that part finally taken into account. So also very briefly, it means your particular right to cancel the reinvested profit or not. We believe that it has shown certain, regardless of the low capitalisation of companies, I agree there is a law on the promotion of investment. Maybe in that part you don't need to have two parallel laws. He has achieved certain effects, because not only does it matter how many he used, but it is also important how many people invested. How much they invested here has proved that over a billion kunas have been determined by this relief, which means that a billion kuna has been invested. So that's important, the goal was investment. Because one investment pulls, has a multiplicative effect so it doesn't matter just to watch a certain number of them used but the overall effect on investments. But I'm telling you okay. You can also accept that part of the view that we have the Investment Encouragement Act and that part is moving away at this point, so it's certainly your particular right and your possibility that you will. Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19811	Thank you, fellow Lalovac. We have nine replicas. The first replica is the esteemed colleague Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19812	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleague Lalovec. Here's the nicest thing you've done. As an entrepreneur, I would try to say something, but that would be more of a matter addressed to Mr. Maric because I didn't replicate it. This is when you said up to 3 million 12% profit tax. I think it took at least five or ten to fit in with more entrepreneurs and then not necessarily open up some other companies that would break that into two parts. But there's one more thing. I'd like to ask why the excise duties we know from oil are about 30, 30% of the cost of entrepreneurs, and an entrepreneur, for example, insurance, the cost of roads and everything else can't be put into pre-tax. Why hasn't the entrepreneur been helped yet? These measures, which Maric, Minister Maric told me as an entrepreneur, are responding, there are some shifts and I am optimistic here, and I think it is quite a nice measure. But if there is room in the budget to help, because if we help entrepreneurs, we help the state, we help the people, and they shouldn't be stingy. As for the imports of these goods from the outside, why don't we make in our country that all centres must have separate Croatian products, import products and that all centres must have 40% to 60% of Croatian products inside, as did Austria and all other countries. Well, here's to the subject, you were also the Minister of Finance, so let me hear you think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19813	Thank you. Replication response, colleague of Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19814	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. Well, look, it's not a problem, it's not even a problem under quotes because we're on a single market because there are so many foreign products on our shelves, but maybe the problem is why and in the same percentage is not our products on foreign shelves in France, Italy, Germany and other countries, and then we can talk about a single European market, then we can talk about a fair game. But on our shelves in Croatia, which is 80 to 90% when we talk about foreign trade chains, they talk about their products, some chains and up to 100%, and when ours need to go to export when they need to place our products there is no trade chains in other European countries. Now that's a question, unfortunately we can't legally in that part, but it's being placed in a certain part of a fair game, fair match on the market the way you watch, normally the Germans and the French will protect their production and that they'll be subsidising and transfer prices and this all they do is push it towards the east and thus achieve an extra margin and extra profit if they sure and talk about the quality of the product. Safe quality of products in Germany and France is not the same quality of products as in Croatia. This is absolutely where I support the Minister of Agriculture, because if we are a single European market, you cannot sell to us goods that you do not sell to your citizens in Germany and France not only to agricultural, customs and all of them, but also to transfer prices. And that is why this is a very important measure to transfer prices in this way where Croatian production has been destroyed for a long, long time, and all under the exception of the market uniquely and so because it is normal for large ones to push out small ones in such a way. And that is why I think that these are well-defined measures, but it is very operationally necessary to do very much what we said to return our products to the shelves in Croatia, let's say we shouldn't, but give us the same treatment in Germany, France and see how then Croatian exports, Croatian agricultural products grow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19815	Thank you. Second replica, dear colleague Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19816	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Lalovac, you presented the exact fact that before the crisis, VAT revenue was about 36 billion, and today it is 44.4 billion with projections to make it around 50 billion kuna in 2020. I would now stick to these 44 billion, and I would say that in those pre-crisis years, VAT was 25%, and it was 22% you remember, that today it would be 42 billion if nothing had changed, it would have been 42 billion. That's one thing, it's just an indication that the burden of citizens in these eight, nine years is about 2 billion more than pre-crisis years. But what's important to say here is that not only should we look at the revenue side of the budget where VAT is more than 30% of the revenue from the state budget but also at the cost side. That at that time that you're talking about, and even during the crisis, the deficit of the state budget was about 4, 5, 6%, and that today, 1.6% when we talk about state budget revenues based on VAT, there should be a correlation between income, expenditure and the level of government budget deficits. That's not what I'm saying to defend, though, I'd be most fortunate if we were even less burdening citizens with VAT bases. And not to say it well you know you were the finance minister that in that time that the annual increase in the cost of the health system, that the annual rise in pension system costs, and until these reforms are brought and qualityd, unfortunately we will long depend on filling the state budget with the basis of VAT. Well, in that sense, I just wanted to say that it's very important when we talk about VAT to watch how the deficit of the state budget behave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19817	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19818	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So that I spoke and even gave public support several times even though I didn't get sympathy when I also gave your fellow minister support that the expenditure side of the budget should be kept strictly under control because of the way that expenditure is not only what is said very well, the growth and revenues of 20 billion kuna, but we are also growing by 15 billion kuna in this direction. Now the question is that we're not just looking at ok. I agree, the deficit is a very important category, however, is not the only category. The problem is once you set up the expenditure side of the budget, once you set it up, you get it legal, if the revenues don't come true, then we're in trouble. That's what I've been trying to tell you all along that we can't, and the pension and health care systems certainly have major deficits. And that's why we said here that tax reform can't bring the one even though the minister here said it would be an effect on the economy, it can't be the most important measure in the economy and it can't be very expected if we still have holes in the pension system, the health system and other systems. And VAT is and therefore people are also negatively affected by high VAT, but unfortunately we are still digging big holes in the pension and health system exclusively from VAT is simply their contributions retirement, health is not enough because our economy is not at that level. But I'd just like to know if I've been talking about it all along, very quickly we're getting euphoric, here we go, and then the expense side starts in another way. I'm just saying, what if we don't get income from the VAT next year, and we've already spent our expenses talking about it? We've already spent our expenses and we're putting on additional commitments and then unfortunately there's a deficit breach. So in that context I was saying that about VAT. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19819	Thank you. Third replica, dear colleague Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19820	Thank you, Chairman. Well, I'd like to say that the basic problem of our economy is that we're a commercial economy and because of that orientation to that so-called economy. Casino economy where there is no production, where only import goods are traded, we are shown the VAT as the main instrument for financing the budget. However, it is clear from the plane that as long as VAT revenues will be the backbone of the tax system, our economy will continue to stagnate, it means that production on the one hand will not be, and that consumption on the other hand will be increasingly taxed. What people don't know is that it's not a problem in consumption, the state should encourage consumption as much as possible, but exchange rate policy should be such that consumption generates production, and with us because of this exchange rate policy, import products are cheaper than domestic ones, consumption generates imports. And we are in a situation today that we even import kuna bills because it is not worth new production in Croatia. We bring water to my people who are one of the richest countries in the world with water. And it reminded me of that story with the Eskimos that someone said they'd sell ice Eskimos here in the Assembly, everyone would tell him he was crazy, but if someone said they were going to sell water to the Croats, they'd tell him they were economical opportunities, blah, blah. Which will say that I am sorry that Mr. Lalovac does not speak a word on the subject because I believe that this topic is too important, priority, and until it is resolved, we will still have great unemployment and the escape of young people from the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19821	A reply to the replica of my colleague, Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19822	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You're right about the commercial economy and especially about VAT. You may not even know the statistical data, but perception has brought you that out of these 44 billion kunas when you look at the sector as much as any of the sectors pay VAT certainly 70 percent comes from trade. So 70% comes from the chain of commerce when spoken in this part of 44, so it's purely from what you said, very little from that part of the production that works, I think the rest of you are HEP, INA and the rest of you are in this part of it. So most of it comes from this part. And you've set this up very well. And then you have one wheel, so you're just, we're set up as a trade, we import, without that VAT we simply can't close the holes that we created in that pension system, the health system, and we're simply addicts in this part we're very sensitive to this VAT especially because we have to patch on the other hand and we don't have enough industrial potential and economy to turn to export. And that's why I once mentioned here, I might say it goes below radar, transfer prices and a way of transferring not only poor quality of goods to Croatian shelves, but the prices of these products that come in Croatia and at extremely low prices, and it's interesting at extremely low prices, and it's interesting at the very low prices here they're losers, they don't pay profits and all these trading chains are winners. So they pay their profits in their countries, do not pay profit taxes in Croatia and still sell us bad quality goods and sell us low quality goods. And just one of those, but actually all the institutions, and in this case the tax administration, and that's why I said that I support it, we have to team up, not just them, but all the other institutions to answer. Because I'm saying if we're people on the single market it's very clear to say, the Germans and the French, then let's act like a single market. Let's not actually be like you said import economies all the time and listen to them interpreting the liberal market economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19823	Thank you. Replica No. 4 dear colleague Irena Petrievcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19824	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Lalovac, I have listened very carefully to your debate and it would be concluded that you consider this to be a big step and that the overall benefit for our citizens will be determined discharge as the Minister said. We can look at this reform on a partial basis and we can also look at the overall benefit of benefit, such as the meaning of the overall tax reform. First, partially what you noticed, so you pointed out fish and utility services although I would prefer a debate on this reform of the total benefit. So you said reducing VAT to utility services is very good. And I agree and we all agree, but you also mentioned that you should be lower VAT on fish. And this is a question that should certainly be considered and not just for fish but for some other foods that are necessary regardless of the general state of the public. And we're a Mediterranean country, and so the basket could be with certain products more recharged. And on the other hand, what I certainly find important is that the same consideration is a compromise solution for hosts in such a way that the maximum VAT covers only alcohol as it has been so far. But to go back to total benefits, in total looking, and that would be the conclusion from your debate that these are good tax measures, because the dispensation of citizens as far as we've heard is a little over 2 billion, maybe according to some projections as we've heard about 2.5 billion kuna. So on the one hand, the VAT rate rises overall, so up to 0.5 but on the other hand, economists always link the two items of GDP and VAT and say that ultimately this means increasing the number of jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19825	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19826	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs, so that I was actually trying to say that even from this tax reform that is trying to reduce a certain part of the burdens and businesses and citizens each is visible and an increase in tax revenues in the state and that is the fact, that is, I said and that is the part, that may be my one I will not say doctrine but I believe that budgeting or too much tax burdens and when I see that our incomes will grow in the next 3 years 20 billion kuna, that our expenditures will grow 15 billion kuna simply something that we have seen before, something we have seen before, and we have said that these economic models have improved our standard of living. And in the end, they didn't because they saw all this part of the standard of living where we were mostly still funding infrastructure consumption through public consumption, when there was a slight market disturbance which in the financial market, which absolutely had nothing to do with the Croatian global financial crisis absolutely had nothing to do with Croatia. We didn't have a problem with banks, we didn't have a problem with what they were doing outside, and we had a lot deeper recession than it was outside. Now the question is, if we didn't have an import crisis like we had bad banks like the Americans, the French, like the Scandinavians, and we had a much deeper recession than they had. And the question is, how and why we had such a deep crisis, and just me, in this part was the idea, let's not do that again, let's not do that again, because the growth in expenditure will no longer have to collect revenue from, we will have nothing to collect revenue from. And that is why I say every discharge I welcome, and I hope that it will give certain effects unrelated, because it is good for all of us that Croatia is growing in this context. It's simple not to be very quick about those models that happened to us not to copy them again very quickly. And I'm telling you the impact of the global crisis on Croatia has no direct influence. Our recession was much deeper and what we were saying about importing, about trade, about this part of our economy structure was very different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19827	The fifth replica is Honorable colleague Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19828	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Comrade Lalovac, you listed among other things some of the effects of this reform on the hotel industry, on basic life supplies, on electricity and on many of the effects that will help our citizens. However, there will be no one to pay in certain areas all these fees and will have no help at all, because you have simply located the problem well. You said agriculture is in these measures really repromaterial is in a much better position than it has been so far. For production, one competitive product can be achieved in Croatian agriculture. But you've located the problem yourself. The product of Croatia does not exist in foreign trade chains, in foreign countries or in Croatia. You asked why? Because when we were entering the EU, it was only important for us to join the EU, to promise a number of stars that they were flying in agriculture, that they would flourish, they would invest in agriculture, and in fact they were working the other way around. The import lobby, the white-world traffickers who destroy Croatian agriculture, was favored all the time. That is why our rural areas are now left without agriculture, so these effects of this reform and these governments and the effort to question what will take effect until the key problem is solved. And the key problem is the ban on imports. They need these shrimp food, these poisonous foods because not only is she a shrimp food, but our people have to increase the number of severe tumour disease, and so in the Republic of Croatia what shouldn't be, we have clean land, we have rivers, we have irrigation. It's a smuggling lobby. It was mentioned just before and the water and what is sold to us on our drawers, and the foreigners do. It is simply unimaginable for them to take eggs in Croatia, and our farms are empty. So, the importing, smuggling lobby guessed, did what he did. We must have the courage and courage to mention being sharper to banks that have a huge gain greater than in their own countries. and they're foreign property. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] It's just that our system has come down to being comfortable with foreign lobbys, and our farmers have been destroyed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19829	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative of Lalovec will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19830	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative, so that you may know that we have been very subsidized by agriculture for a very long time and through a certain agricultural policy, giving and not having the effects that should have been recovered as far as so much money is given through certain subsidies. And I'm glad that in this part not only is certain control carried out regarding certain, I say another agricultural quality of certain products. I can get you an anecdote now. My brother is usually a doctor, he specializes in Nunberg and says so I can't believe that when I enter their store, how much more quality products I eat than I eat in Croatia. Well, I'm saying, yes, it's probably where you eat very high-quality milk products to certain people here often say that in Croatia we don't buy any milk, but that milk powder to make it etc. So you see not just certain quantities and then you ask a certain question, and we know that we sold the dairy industry to the French, that in a certain part of that kind of production. And then the question arises which instruments, which the government has instruments and so I say in this part not only of suppressing all the time I'm talking about the gray economy, but I would also call this a form of gray economy and discrimination of products. And I think that there would certainly expect one package of measures not only this part of the reduction but a package of measures in which it is actually not only to be protected, we cannot put such a name because of the unity of the European market, but rather that one package of measures that should be seen after a year should be the effects on Croatian agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19831	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19832	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Lalovac, you have indicated in the debate a possible future phenomenon regarding profit tax. Those entities, therefore, that have traffic to or total revenue up to 3 million kuna, that it is possible that actually those who have higher incomes to divide it into several companies and that in this way are incomeing additional income from the reduced profit tax. I think that's a good point, and in my opinion, that's where we have to team up. I believe that, in fact, these serious economic operators will not pursue it at all. However, there are various entities on the market, and some will indeed try to say something small. Our Penal Code knows tax evasion well, and I think it's a definition, and it's going to be quite well described, to cover such situations. But within our tax administration services, especially this new tax evasion sector, I think they should work very hard to recognize these things and that these things don't actually become any practice. So I think this is a very welcome observation about the future. And secondly, as far as you're concerned, you open the question and write off the debt by the banks that this is one measure that's actually good for banks. I'd say she's good in principle and for the debtors, she's good for those debtors who can't repay the loans. And that's one wine situation where the bank is actually going to be a smaller tax, and these debtors really have to be paid off in a real way. This is what I think, by means of these procedural acts, that sublegal acts should be regulated in detail because it must not be bookkeeping actually write-off, it must be a real write-off or, as the Law on Mandatory Relations says, discharge of debt. This means that these people have to be unblocked, that they can have the right to a new start, and I think that's one measure that's actually good for both of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19833	Thank you. The replica will be answered by the esteemed representative Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19834	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. Well, yes, whenever and in this way related to avoidance entrepreneurs normally look for certain opportunities. However, to make it possible to introduce a tax on consolidated profits. And then that way, whether you start one, the other, the third, you as an entrepreneur will pay for your consolidated profit. Because in one company you have a minus, in another plus, and that way you won't allow you to move on to one, another or third company, and that way you pay rather than be viewed as one single company. In that part of today, we have many companies that are consolidated and that have to do their consolidated reports, and then you won't allow them if you don't let them go through some ownership structure to another company but they will still have to pay as a large entrepreneur in that part as some consolidated profit, and that kind of example seems to me to have Germans, but it should technically enable companies in the Tax Administration that are those network companies, and thus perhaps this part would be avoided so that they don't run from one part to another. But what's very important here about this is the writings for the citizens. You've recently seen that about 10 citizens were owed to banks of two billion kunas. I'm just afraid these taxes are given not to be written off. Do you know why? The banks will write off before they do. You know why? Because they're sure it won't charge anything from them, because ten citizens can't afford to give two billion kunas, and those who really need five hundred, one thousand or two thousand kuna, or five thousand kuna, won't give it a write-off. Why? Because eventually they'll charge it, eventually they're small amounts. I'm just scared, and that's why I've been here the whole time talking to those who've been speculating, who've been working to just not give them a chance, for example. Those ten, that it may be written off, know that they will not be charged from them. It means that only this measure has a real effect on a real citizen, not on those who speculated. That's why I've been warning all along that certain mechanisms are being given, controls to keep that part of the bank from undermining and, in fact, they're finally getting a burden on all taxpayers.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19835	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19836	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Comrade Lalovac, you mentioned here possible effects on both the budget and everything we saw in the guidelines, I would just add that with this proposal, the government actually narrowed down the maneuvering space to itself in some way. At least two things here fall into the eyes, which are directly linked to these tax changes. So after the spending plan has been increased by nearly five billion kuna, I'm asking a rhetorical but real question, how do you explain to tourists now that you're taking this tax reform from a billion kuna and increasing the expenditure by five billion kuna? That's a very serious question. And the other thing that's being set up, I wouldn't honestly be in your skin now that you're getting into conversations with teachers, teachers or trade unions in higher education and middle and primary. Why? Because your position is now very weakened. You won't be able to talk to these people in a way to prove to them that a billion and eight hundred kunas at this point can't be found to raise wages. You simply can't say that, because you found five billion kunas to increase the total expenditure on other items and that's an objective problem. So this isn't saying politicizing again, this is a real situation. This is from the perspective here is me and Boris who did this job a few years ago. So I'm really saying to myself you've brought yourself now into a very awkward situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19837	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19838	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague. Well, I know you were telling me actually the Minister you were telling, the minister would negotiate. I don't negotiate with unions, and this part is because we're no longer part of the government. I agree absolutely especially when the expenditure side of the budget is growing five billion kunas how to explain to teachers and teachers in high schools where this part of the salary increase of 6% would mean a lot more to them than this tax reform means to them. Is their impact on their home budgets much more important to them because of this model of tax reform, much more means their budgets and their standard of living than this tax reform that will not be touched at all. And now explain to everyone... we have five billion kunas for everyone in society, for you we don't have, and you have a contract, you have the right to that, it was signed ten years ago, etc. And for you now there is no, but you are on hold again for a better time. And finally what you said in the hospitality when we know how much hospitality has a multiplicative effect on the economy, we know it draws the economy, we know that you have employment etc. that only in this segment in this part of the VAT segment is to be left alone. And we see how much VAT is growing, all the time I've been trying to say from 44 billion to 50 billion kunas growing VAT over the period, and now explain that there's no possibility of actually being made in that part of it. And I believe that in this part, the government's position in negotiations with each other must be difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19839	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mare Kristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19840	Thank you, dear Vice President. My colleague Lalovac, in fact, you gave an answer to my question, Mr. Grcic asked you something similar in your presentation that was very professional and to which I am extremely aware you failed to talk about the catering sector that was certainly affected by this increase in rate. My question is, in fact, how much do you think it will leave far-reaching consequences for the catering sector when we know that tourism is unfortunately in Croatia, we do not have some other so strong branches of the main economy, and I personally think that perhaps within a short time, it will not cause such great consequences, but in the long term safe to do so. And do you think that, in due course, some other compensatory elements should be considered as soon as possible, mainly by increasing the control rate and even by these measures specifically proposed by Mr Alexic to increase the rates on alcohol and to leave other categories of drinks at that level? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19841	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19842	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor. So when we were dropping a certain VAT rate from 25 to 10, then from 10 to 13 what actually happened? It has happened that the state has made more revenue in the budget and these are facts. So not only are these indicators and tax administrations... it also means the introduction of fiscalization. So in the catering facilities suddenly there was traffic not only by introducing fiscalization, but people said ok. This part of the tax burden we can bear, we're going to report everything and start introducing order, people are starting to perform neatly and see according to the tax administration's reports 30 to 40 percent of the incomes in the catering and people no longer wanted to, so what I'm going to say about a coffee here, there, I'm not going to issue an account, etc. They didn't want to run into the gray economy. Unfortunately, what is a fact and what I fear will reopen the area of the gray economy will be opened because it is a high tax burden for them. Why? Because they're doing a very short period of time the same thing that our tourism does, if we had tourism for 12 months, if we had total incomes like Austria, France and others wouldn't be a problem. We are unfortunately seasonally oriented tourism, simply all the investments you invest cannot be returned in such short time because we only work 200 days etc. And when you have such a high tax burden, you simply have to run into a gray economy to stay out of the market. Therefore, the specificities of Croatian tourism are different from French, German, Austrian and other which have one mass all year round. And that's why I think their remarks should be adopted. And why you also have accommodation facilities, because these are very high fixed investments, you can't return them and unless you have loans from 3 to 5% to 17 years, no hotel can operate. You know what banks used to do when they gave credits up to 5, 6, 7 years with interest rates 10%. All the hotels in Croatia were bankrupt, everyone was bankrupt. And now that our HBOR policy is where it could be invested, now they're going to start working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19843	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19844	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Lalovac, I support your debate in most parts, has been very correct, but it has given me a bit of a boost to the replica of your surprise that this happened and why it happens that food is imported at such low prices and that the prices of such products are so low that ultimately result in these affairs as well. I'll say yes, shall I keep talking or stop? I don't mind the light, it's not a problem, I don't care about the TV.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19845	I hope the Parliament paid for the electricity after all.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19846	I'm going to remind you a little bit of a time when your colleague was a Minister of Agriculture and say that exactly because of not passing adequate laws during that period or because of the wrong laws being passed in that period, this is exactly what is happening right now. You also commended Minister Tolusic and I will say the same thing to the citizens, especially those whose portfolio represents that in a very short time he has made more courageous and quality decisions than the ministers have made in the mandates and we need to give support. But my colleague, Lalovac, I'm asking a question, so why didn't Minister Jakovina, your colleague at the time, propose laws to reduce VAT rates to food production or maybe reduce VAT to food or stuff like that? It probably wouldn't be what it is now, and probably if it had gone with stronger controls if it hadn't even been for the development of the inspectorate and everything else that was stately, perhaps some of the things could have been prevented.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19847	Thank you. They will respond to the distinguished representative Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19848	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, we were seriously considering reducing the VAT rate, but then in a simple opportunity when you have a deficit and a drop in economic activity from 10 to 12% simply were not possible. It simply wasn't possible, regardless of all the good will you can do, you simply can't function when you have a 5 to 10% drop in economic activity, when you have a deficit of 15 to 20 billion or when you have deficits or when you're in a primary surplus and you have an economy of about 3%. And that's why it's just not about the same opportunities you're doing, you don't actually have the same economic opportunities in which you act, and you just can't make those decisions. But I'd come back for this part I don't think this is even a question of left, right, MOST, etc. The transfer price, I'll come back here one more time. This is the most serious issue that we must deal with not only the tax administration but the whole society and legally define in what way. Not that he had anything against foreign trade chains, etc. etc. but in what way to define myself, because for a long time I followed which domestic sales chains paid profit tax and really paid profit tax and which foreign trade chains did not pay profit tax in Croatia for 5, 6, 7. And now the question arises and I tell you the cheap products here sell and in their countries they pay a profit tax. Well, it's very simple, at all possible instances and at the Council of Ministers of Finance... trying to tell people what it's all about. It can't be that you're positive there, that you're there... and in Croatia you're just downs, profit tax 0 and you're selling us very bad goods. So I think this is a question, I say, because I think it's a national issue, and it won't be easy for us, believe me, it won't be easy for the Germans to tell you to throw the products out of your products, etc. etc. Or we want our products in Germany, agricultural products to see. So the greater effect would be to release their products in Croatia and let ours go outside, because your biggest market there, they have a market of 4 million and we have 500 million. And that would raise the Croatian economy. You know how many would be in their products? 0.0 something percent. And I think in that context, here's not that hep even tells us. Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19849	And now we're moving on with the clubs. And the next club is the HDZ club on behalf of which the distinguished representative Branko Bačić will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19850	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister and Associates, dear colleagues and colleagues, and here we are during the debate and certainly even more during the debate when we discussed the tax reform in the first reading, we also expressed the views of clubs, we expressed our agreement with what we hold in this reform, tax reform well and what we think should change. In his presentation this morning, the minister quoted what he had said from the first reading, from the debate in the first reading, which are proposals and remarks adopted by the government. I would say a few more words to say that we welcome that already when the first government budget is set up, we have the opportunity to discuss tax reform, full tax reform as it is mentioned, the comprehensive one and which is primarily going towards reducing tax burden both Croatian entrepreneurs and Croatian citizens. And rightly so, the government has rightly decided to go to tax reform first. Because in Croatia, we need tax reforms, necessary reforms not only tax reforms, but also public administration reform and pension systems and health insurance, and health care systems. But the first reform is tax reform. Why? Because, because it is quick to find its reflection in the state budget and, if we have seen it through the guidelines that the Government adopted the day before yesterday, which discussed the budget guidelines for 2017, the effect of these laws and the effect of this reform has already been revised to the 2017 budget. Because if we know that this tax reform relieves Croatian entrepreneurs for around 2 billion kunas, slightly more than two billion kunas, then it clearly provided an opportunity to feel through 0.6% of GDP through an increase in GDP growth rate, which then clearly means increasing the state budget and the revenue side of the state budget. What Lalovac was talking about earlier, which is the fact that we are talking about the tax discharge of citizens on the one hand, and on the other hand, our income from VAT is increasing as the most important, high-end tax in the Republic of Croatia. So it goes up from year to year, so here it is in the last ten years of rising VAT revenues somewhere around 8 billion kuna, even though at that time, during that time, when we were collecting and subtracting GDP growth or decline, he couldn't have so much increased the revenues of the state budget based on VAT. However, the fact is that in the meantime, we have increased the VAT rate, the general VAT rate twice from 22 to 23, and then from 23 to 25 have resulted in the fact that despite the crisis times, the crisis in the Republic of Croatia has increased our income from VAT and that it is clear that this is the situation. And the fact that we are now talking about reducing the tax burden on Croatian citizens that we will still testify that the next year's VAT increase is about 2 billion, that by 2020 it would have reached around 50 billion. However, without such VAT revenue, it is difficult to compensate for all the problems we have in our portfolios and public administrations and health care and pension systems. And therefore, for a long time until we have really made real structural reforms in these systems, we will be very dependent on filling the state budget with the basis of VAT. That is why it is in the government's programme of speech, and I hope by then, until 2020, we will be able to go into structural reforms to then implement that pre-election promise that we will reduce the overall VAT rate from 25% to 24%. That's what I wanted to say in the introduction for a reason to point out on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club that it was absolutely right to go into tax reform first. However, if it stands on it, everything we have outlined and what the government programme has covered will not be resolved. So, the first is tax reform is good, but then put the whole tax system down. It would not be good if after we adopt such a tax reform, after a few months we went back to change, to repeat the error of the former government which, not the former but those of the Government of the SDP, which was from 2012 to the end of 2015 where we changed the four basic laws, the Law on Profit Tax, the Law on Value Added Tax, the Law on Income Tax and the Law on Contribution 44 times. This is therefore the best way to dissipate investors who intend to lie in the Republic of Croatia on the one hand, and on the other hand is dramatically burdening them, making it difficult for the business of existing and successful, but also those less successful entrepreneurs. When we talk about these two taxes it's a value added tax and profit tax we're already saying about it. What I think should be particularly isolated when we talk about the Tax on Profits Act, it's a reduction in the overall profit tax rate from 20% to 18%. In the calculations we had at the first reading, I think there were some 375 million kunas of discharging Croatian entrepreneurs. It is my view, looking at the first real measure that has been directed over the past few years to Croatian entrepreneurs, that I am not saying that, and that this measure will be felt by entrepreneurs who do not cross the total annual income of three million kunas because it is a reduction in the tax rate of about 40%. Therefore, 40% of the tax on profits to an entrepreneur who has revenues of less than 3 million kuna is an extremely, extremely large measure, so that it is a high measure, so that it is primarily directed towards them but will, in absolute terms, be able to reduce the revenues of the state budget with the basis of the profit tax where and where more it contributes, i.e. to reduce the revenues of the state budget. This measure talks about reducing the overall rate from 20 to 18 for all other entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia. We also welcome the decision to make it possible for credit institutions to write down bad credits for paid-outs to be recognised as tax-recognition expenditure, but on the other hand to clear the balance sheet and their debtors, and that is what the minister said about it. These days it was in the media, and even more so was the river debate in the first reading there were words about the need for clear measures to ensure that there was no abuse of this institute that not only would reduce the revenues of the state budget but on the other hand would make clear the cleaning of the balance sheet both banks and credit institutions, but what I particularly welcome is that their debtors are entrepreneurs who can then go to a new investment cycle, a new credit line and it is certainly to welcome it. As far as value added tax is concerned, as far as VAT is concerned, there was a lot of talk about this measure that caused concern, dissatisfaction among the caterers. And what the minister was already saying and what we were saying during the first reading, which is that we are aware that this will in a certain way reduce competitiveness in Croatian caterers, but when we do and analyze parallel data with our competition in the Mediterranean, Croatia is still in this sense extremely competitive, and we do not think that this will drastically undermine the competitiveness of our entrepreneurs involved in catering, but on the other hand, with other measures that touch profit tax and value added tax reduces the business costs of all entrepreneurs and thus entrepreneurs in catering. And when we talk about hospitality, we think that through the measures of reducing VAT on agricultural impasses, there can be a reduction in the price of food, and thus certainly can be done to a certain extent, not to the end, but to some extent compensate for this increase in VAT rates from 13% to 25%. Not to mention that the price reduction or reduction of VAT rates to electricity, the reduction of VAT rates to municipal services, will also contribute, and I do not think that this is a small item for entrepreneurs or for trade union baskets of Croatian citizens. Therefore, with all these measures we hold that there will be a significant discharge of both Croatian entrepreneurs and Croatian citizens, which clearly indicates in itself that through the implementation of this tax reform there is a reduction of funds in the state budget by more than two billion kuna. Therefore, the two billion kunas remain for Croatian citizens, remain for Croatian entrepreneurs, and that is certainly to be welcomed. What is important is what I was saying on behalf of the club and in the first reading, that through this tax reform, especially through amendments to the Law on Profit Tax and in particular through amendments to the Income Tax Act to go in a certain way to the eastern part of Croatia, Slavonia is therefore less developed part of Croatia because these measures are, when projected on an economy in Croatia, the highest priority towards agriculture and agriculture. Thus, through this tax reform, the government has shown indeed that it intends to encourage the Slavonia project as one of the ways of helping and adopting positive economic measures towards the east of Croatia. In that sense, our club will certainly support both laws and laws on amendments to the Law on value added tax and profit tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19851	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. The first is the distinguished representative Branimir Bunjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19852	Thank you, Chairman. I'd like to answer to my colleague Bacic. Namely, he continues to force the thesis that this tax reform is aimed at the well-being of citizens, but it is not. And I say that from the position of the citizens themselves who do not recognize this tax reform as something that would benefit them. Namely, every average citizen looks at the amount of income he has received, as well as when he sees that after the tax reform, his salary has increased by zero or fifty kuna, and that the parliamentary representative has increased by seven hundred kuna, minister and prime minister by two thousand kuna, members of the administration by five thousand kuna and more, so it is clear to him that this tax reform does not go in favour of the vast majority of citizens. So from this tax reform, people who work for a minimumer or who work for a salary that is less than the average salary in the Republic of Croatia have no benefit. The only thing they can see from this tax reform is that they will find coffee more expensive in the café, and that was the only entertainment left for them so that they will not be able to afford it. If you really wanted to take some moves that would benefit the citizens, you could, for example, To solve the problem of poverty, the problem of minimum wage, the problem of homelessness, the problem of blockages, the problem of execution, the problem of free textbooks, the transport for students, that any of these measures have been implemented in the last two months since you headed the government, I guarantee you that you will be heroes today, and your coalition rating would have increased by at least 5%. However, you have decided to give money to those mouths that have enough and too much, and in fact to give citizens nothing and on the first salary they will see that the effects of this tax reform do not go to their advantage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19853	Thank you. The esteemed representative Branko Bačić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19854	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, after this replica of yours, the only thing you deserve was a warning from the President of the Parliament because you spoke beyond the subject that it is. You are well aware that today, or during the morning, we are discussing amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax and profit tax. You've all replicated it as if we're talking about amendments to the Income Tax Act. That's what we'll talk about when we discuss it. Now I'm talking about profit tax and value added tax. And speaking of income tax, then I'll tell you that the amendment to the Income Tax Act is further released from the absolute payment of this type of tax of the new 560 thousand Croatian citizens. And if you think these 560 grand are just the parliamentarians and the state officials, then you're wrong. These 560 thousand include the largest part of the medium layer in the Republic of Croatia according to which these measures should be directed. But again, I'm saying that with the basis of the income tax law that we're going to discuss tomorrow morning. I was just talking about the value added tax and the profit tax and I was talking about the dispensation of Croatian entrepreneurs by the fact that their overall profit tax rate is reduced now from 20 to 18 and those who are less than 3 million kuna are reduced from 20% to 12%. Therefore, I talked about this and I talked about a reduction when you haven't replicated me, about reducing VAT on municipal services, about reducing VAT on electricity consumption, I talked about reducing VAT on agricultural inputs, which can then indirectly lead to a reduction in the price of food, so if you want to tell the entry costs to Croatian hosts that I agree with, it increases VAT from 13% to 25%, but again, say that it will pay the final customer, the end-user will pay that VAT increase from 13% to 25%.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19855	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative Sabine Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19856	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Bačić, you said that this tax reform, that is, by proposing these two laws, allows for the disbursement of entrepreneurs through 2 billion kunas and when I listen to you like that, then we would get the impression that actually entrepreneurs and the economy are the biggest winners of this tax reform. That's not true. The biggest winners of these two laws that are key laws in tax reform are actually banks. Banks are allowed in a very elegant way to no longer show those non-payment loans as profits, thus reducing the taxable base and will be largely incomed from a good part of the funds or will be facilitated by banks, and will be made more difficult by the Croatian budget. The question that I'm asking is why do entrepreneurs, why didn't the craftsmen meet in a way that you don't admit to them as a profit that's uncharging claims. There is simply a state to say that I completely ignore the fact that a large number of our craftsmen and entrepreneurs face the problem of having to pay the state absolutely everything they have to pay, and on the other hand, the state doesn't ask them if they can make them call it their debts. So what I think, you're going to tell me again that, to cut the tax rate to profit from 20 to 18 of those who earn less than 3 million kunas, that it's even reduced to 12% ok, but that's a compensatory measure of actually abolishing the tax on reinvested profits. But if we look at actually the overall picture then we'll see that the biggest winners here are the banks and that the entrepreneurs are actually able to profit through the same sum and have a much greater effect that they've forgiven, that they don't display as profits what they can't charge, that's not taken into account and they haven't tried to make it easier in that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19857	Thank you. The esteemed representative Branko Bačić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19858	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues of the Voice, you have not listened to me carefully or have not read the laws we are discussing very carefully. I did not say that 2 billion kuna is the discharge of Croatian entrepreneurs as you put it in my mouth. It is that this tax reform reduces the burden on Croatian citizens and Croatian entrepreneurs by more than 2 billion. And it primarily reduces Croatian citizens. Because if you had read then you would have seen that in this reform you were talking about the compensation fund and units of local self-government with the basis of reduced income tax revenues, which means that most of this reform will feel in reducing the tax press of Croatian citizens. When you talk about it, it would be good if one of the measures that had to be directed towards entrepreneurs was why they were not exempt from paying the profit tax for non-payment claims exactly the opposite. But I was also saying in my first reading that what you did, your government did with pre-determined deals that it was just a crime against these small entrepreneurs, a crime against small entrepreneurs because they were denied claims against... debtors who wrote off regardless of what they properly submitted the invoice for the day service, which they paid the state of VAT and paid taxes on the state's profits for that one service that you described to them by your law according to the agreement of the greatest creditors. Therefore, the greatest crime against these small entrepreneurs has been committed precisely through this reform that you mentioned earlier, and that is through the Law of Pre-determination.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19859	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Klarin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19860	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I wish there was an institute to correct the incorrect allegations since you Mr. Bacic said that Croatia is still extremely competitive with this rate of VAT in tourism. Very interesting. You are, in fact, deluding the Croatian public or you have not read at all what VAT rates are in catering and tourism in other Mediterranean countries that are engaged in tourism and of which, of course, our tourism sector depends. Do you know that Italy, Spain and Portugal have 11% of the VAT rate in tourism? That only Greece has 25%. And then you're the one with no problem, no remorse at all, saying that we're still going to be the most competitive country with this VAT rate in hospitality. I don't know what the purpose of the deception of the Croatian public is. You're coming from the island of Korčula. At the beginning of your debate you boasted, boasted justifiably that the budget, will receive considerable funds from this VAT, and then as a representative of the HDZ even worse, the president of the HDZ Club in the Croatian Parliament is nonchalant without any remorse you state-wide increase in VAT rates in catering from 13% to 25%. You who come from the island of Korčula where 90% of the budget of your units of local self-government is just filled with hospitality and tourism. Really fellow Bacic, good for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19861	The esteemed representative Branko Bačić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19862	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Klarin, before I go to the pay phone either this one or on behalf of the club or I read this one here so I don't speak out of my head, especially if I don't make it up. You unfortunately haven't been and you've been long... During the first reading, when the minister of finance for the speaker presented information on Croatia's competitiveness in the Mediterranean, he compared it with Spain, Portugal, France, Italy and Greece. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when he found out that at the prices of our guests we were almost the cheapest country in the touristic sense of the environment. But you well know that tourism is not only a hospitality and that the priority price of tourism defines nights, accommodations, half boards and boards. And that's why I think you know if you've read it doesn't increase the VAT rate, so it stays the same. It is therefore in this sense that our hotelers who offer their services on the international market, and even on the Mediterranean market, remain in the same position they were before we started this reform. And believe that when a guest comes to Italy or Croatia does not ask how much VAT is in that country, what is the value added tax, but what is the price of the total service. At the price of the total service in tourism, Croatia is one of the most competitive and cheapest countries in the Mediterranean. That's what I'm talking about, and that's what I'm behind. And I said one more thing in the end that for hospitality, the VAT increase is not going, does not make Croatian hosts more competitive than they have been until now, but this cost will still fall to the final customer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19863	Thank you very much. With this we exhausted the replicas and move on to the next club, which is the Club of Representatives of the Living Wall in the name of which the distinguished representative Branimir Bunjac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19864	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. We would like to take another brief look at the proposed amendments to the law concerning tax reform in this case of the Law on Value Added Tax and Profit Tax. I would like to repeat briefly in the introduction, therefore, the claim that this tax reform does not go in favour of citizens, and we specifically believe that before the budget is emptied, therefore the increase in the expenditure side should be increased. For this, there are very high conditions, so the mining rent could have been increased, it could have taken place with measures against the grey economy. It is estimated that Croatia loses from 10% to 30% of budgets due to the grey economy. All of this would have far better effects on the budget and business in 2017 than these measures, which in fact represent one political agreement with banks in order to compensate them for the losses incurred by the conversion, alleged losses incurred by the conversion of loans in Swiss francs. In particular, as regards these two laws, the Living Wall does not support, so the reduction in VAT rates to hospitality and in this sense we will also submit an amendment, because we believe that the hospitality has already experienced several pressures over the past few years. We specifically think about increasing VAT rates for catering 10 to 13% and also of the fiscalisation that is therefore sensitive, thus reducing the income of the caterer. The caterers therefore have already made their contribution to the budget and in this way they are being denied, where they will therefore not be able to do business in the same way as they have done so far. Moreover, they will do business with losses and will likely lose jobs in the branch. Another amendment that we are thinking of submitting is the amendment to reduce VAT on food products obtained by organic and biodynamic agriculture for the reasons of products that have a pronounced export potential, which goes up to 10% annually, at least according to those analyses concerning other European countries. At the same time, they have a very beneficial effect on human health, on the environment as well as on, in general, job creation. Since organic agriculture practically does not exist in the budget, that is, 70 million kuna was foreseen in 2015, and in 2016 only 350,000 kunas believe that such a move would constitute a compensatory measure for ecological and biodynamic farmers. In doing so, I would like to stress that biodynamic agriculture does not actually exist in the RS budget at all, and it exists in most European countries' budgets, and this is very embarrassing for the reason that the founder of the biodynamic agriculture, Rudolph Steiner, was born in Croatia. So he was born in Croatia, specifically in the Lower Royal in Međimurje County and there is now and already one Biodynamic Agriculture Centre, but we are still doing nothing to notice at all the efforts that enthusiasts are doing on this issue. I also warn that from the teaching of Rudolph Steiner and his philosophy grew not only biodynamic agriculture, but also Waldorf pedagogy, and that the days in the world have a thousand hundred Waldorf schools, and we are still not familiar with that there is biodynamic agriculture, is as far as we can see in the budget it is not mentioned at all. Biodynamic agriculture is otherwise already recognised in Europe as the best agriculture and, consequently, biodynamic producers are given the Demeter certificate considered to be the highest possible recognition for farmers. Therefore, we consider it particularly since biodynamic agriculture is only in the conundrums and this expenditure would not be too large for the budget to reduce VAT and on organic and biodynamic agricultural products. As well as in our first reading, we would like to insist on amending Article 76(8) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The VAT law in which imports of foreign... machinery and equipment are encouraged. So what is the need to encourage the import of foreign machines? Why not write just the purchase of machines and equipment, but we have to write the import of machines and equipment, so this reduces VAT. So we simply do not think that importers should be favored in relation to domestic producers because we still have some kind of Gredelj, Končar in Croatia and some other manufacturers of machinery and equipment and there is no need for importers to be placed in some privileged position. In particular, one single word should therefore be replaced by a word of supply and would all be in an even position. We also warn of Article 27 of the amendment and addition of the VAT Act, which, if I understand it correctly, points out that VAT payments will be released to all those who, during the period until 31 December 2017, purchase of entertainment vessels, aircraft, personal cars and other means of transport. So if it's really so planned that it's possible to release VAT, then it's certainly a very, very wrong article that should either change or better, delete. Also in the proposal for profit tax in transitional and final provisions, it should be added to the items that all those to whom banks write off debts for their names to be made public, so that citizens know who their debts are written off to so that they have a clear insight into who they are dealing with in future business. According to current laws, all pre-departure debtors are listed on the pages of the Trade Court. All taxpayers are listed on the Tax Administration pages. The question is very simple, where will you be able to see who the banks have written off their debts to? It would therefore be necessary and reasonable to make public this list of former debtors to be in an equal position after the write-off. Finally, it is also important to point out what a colleague of Lalovac was already talking about, which is transfer prices, transfer prices which are one of the main tax evasion generators in the Republic of Croatia, where it is possible that some parent company sells or resells products at reduced or even increased prices, and then to manipulate both by paying taxes and, say, state subsidies. Practically speaking, it is possible that, for example, Agrokor sells in Bosnia to some company the same products by fake invoice and then pays a lower profit tax in Bosnia than is a profit tax in Croatia. These transfer prices are now highlighted here, but it is quite unclear what the taxpayer must do about these transfer prices. And one more thing is unclear, which is how these transfer prices will be charged or supervised, because it is unclear who is in charge or it seems that too few people will do it. As far as I'm aware, about five at the national level in the Republic of Croatia. It is also very important to mention the coupons that are also mentioned in this bill. I don't want to be bad, but first, you all get to think of the coupons you've probably seen, and now the question is whether this issue of coupons ended accidentally in this bill or deliberately and then ended up in such a way as to actually be suspicious that it was intentional to please someone. In fact, the bill states that a coupon must be accepted as a means of payment. So what's the value coupon supposed to be accepted for as a means of payment? You should write can be accepted but you don't have to accept. So the obligation is what is still very interesting at the end of the issue of coupons is being resolved by this law only by the application of the new law as of 1 January 2019. So now I'm particularly interested in why in 2016 we have to discuss the application of the law that applies in 2 years or more? So again in some way, he's starting to suspect that there's some kind of intention behind it. Also, the question that is not answered about the coupons is whether VAT has been charged in the securities coupons or VAT is not charged in the coupons? So I would ask if it is possible for the minister to answer this question in his closing statement as well as whether those buying vessels and aircraft in 2017 must pay VAT or not. There's so much of the Living Wall. We are, in any case, very skeptical of these amendments to the law. Therefore, they do not solve those key problems that are plagued by Croatian society and remains doubtful that they will only actually benefit from banks, people who have a lot of money, a particular clientele and what is the worst of all banks that still owe money for illegal interest. There are also strong judgments about this, they don't pay it, it's our opinion that not only do they have to pay it, but they need to be further taxed and only then go to an increase in expenditure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19865	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first of which is the distinguished representative of Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19866	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Bunjac, we debated a little bit, you brought up the hospitality and I am glad to say it, but I would ask one question if we were looking at the hosts in Dalmatia, the guests in Slavonia, the guests in Zagreb, that's a big difference, a very, very big difference. Restaurants in Slavonia pay 25%, hosts true hotels will pay 12%, the rest 25%. I think everyone should pay 25% or all 12%. But why do you keep going to Dalmatia? We are all expensive and Slavonia, and all in Croatia are paying the tourist community that contributes most to Dalmatia, which is the best standard today and Slavonia is far in the worst standard, in the worst and the same Slavonac will pay 25%, nor the cafe that makes 500 kuna traffic today. I agree, we brought the state today at this time as it is. Let's all have 25% so after two years we'll try to see where we are. Then you mentioned eco-production, that eco-production, we practically have in Croatia eco producers because our country is not as polluted as Germany, France and everyone else. They don't even have wild animals in their fields anymore where they tried to let them grow and come, it's just so poisoned. We with very little wisdom can have a complete state in eco-production, but I'm asking again, when we make an eco-production, how are we going to place it in that west, and how are we going to sell it? Is there a strategy here? There's Mr. Maric here to see it. You mentioned cars, so you see that one entrepreneur, one craftsman would go somewhere on the road he must take the car. It keeps moving, so I think it's normal. Then the OPGs who are in Slavonia, who have small economies and who have small restaurants, I would release them, give them a flat tax. That's the kind of thing we need to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19867	Thank you. The honourable representative Branimir Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19868	Thank you, Chairman. That fellow Misic you're right. Namely, Croatia has ideal conditions for organic agriculture. We had a lot of unprocessed countries and we have countries that are completely rested, because one of the first conditions for organic agriculture would be to say the country stands unworked for 3 years and unfortunately we have such countries very much in areas where it was, for example, a war took place 20 years ago and that country is actually ideal for ecological agriculture team before many of these areas were currently relaxed. I would like to point out that the current products of organic and biodynamic agriculture are far greater demand than the offer. And let's say countries that force such agriculture as that. Denmark records an annual growth of 10% so that they can't actually produce as much as others are willing to buy from them. As regards the programme, i.e. the placement of such products, we already as the Living Wall as a party last year in, and this year in April, we adopted a national plan for organic agriculture. We've got him, we've introduced him to the public, he hasn't come across a proper echo and we're still willing to give him up to the government if he wants to study him. This plan provides for measures to ensure that these products are placed on the market. There is, in any case, a key role of the state which should therefore encourage fairs of such agricultural products but which could also participate in buying such products for, say, hospitals, that it is for those citizens whose health is most at risk of giving quality food to heal as soon as possible and not that they are given food imported for which we have seen the effects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19869	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19870	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleague. Here's to commending you first that you've really managed to digest this one extensive material, that you've studied it and I see you've commented. However, here I must warn you of a small matter. The final income tax proposal that you and your colleague Maras commented on and was the very nice one with the money. Actually, you were wrong about one thing. You can't relieve someone who doesn't pay taxes. Of course, we must strive for a more just society, a society with smaller social differences, with smaller pay gaps. But one who doesn't pay taxes at all or very little can't even relieve him and so here's what you have in mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19871	Thank you. The honourable representative Branimir Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19872	You can't relieve the one who doesn't pay the tax, and in that sense, I was saying that we should go to curbing the gray economy. So you know that in Croatia right now, in some dams, especially in the building or in the store, you pay people on the hands and that they simply, however much income tax or some other tax. Because he will always get one and the same amount on his hands and on that side should take some measures to finally resolve the situation. The situation is sound. It can be resolved in seven days, but it only takes political will. Also, I'm warning you of the problem of overtime. Here I was talking to people last week who work 15 to 20 hours over the norm, and there's no record of those hours, which is the worst of all, they don't even pay. So people actually work free of charge under the threat that if they don't comply with those obligations they'll get fired. How does this tax reform help them? First, employers who operate illegally should be forced to pay their workers normal wages, i.e. with all the contributions and would already receive one, so one tax mass of higher income that could then be distributed for some useful purposes above all social character. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19873	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19874	Hall of Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Bunjac, it seems to me that Minister Maric is doing his job, and I congratulate him on that. But it's not good that he's the only one doing his job in this government. Either he's premature or he's working at a normal pace, and maybe these ministers who have just been appointed or some who have already been not doing their job. Why does it matter? The impression is that Minister Maric is building a roof house with this tax reform, and we will later agree on the foundations. So the reform of the primarily regional structure and then the curricular reform and all other reforms should follow this tax reform. However, they have been stopped. But you've actually given me one idea and you've said very well that you should reduce VAT to organic production. However, what Minister Maric cannot do alone, what the Minister of Agriculture should do, and I can now invite you, come to me in Slavonia, and you will see what all the ecological incentives are issued for, and you will see orchards growing literally this thick of action in which people collect incentives for such orchards. Until there is order in the sector either in agriculture, anywhere, then every effort by Minister Maric in that direction is in vain. Anyway, your initiative, probably you if you were a minister, you'd do it right away because everyone would be welcome. Because the Croatian product must be recognised on the European market, especially such a product that can be competitive and which can then be successful.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19875	Thank you. The honourable representative Branimir Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19876	So you're right when you say this government is starting to build a house of chimneys. So instead of laying some groundwork in the new model of economics, this government is taking some steps that would go in favor of at least 70% of citizens if not all of them. It brings tax reform here, which is essentially looking forward to a group of perhaps 3,000 people in Croatia who will therefore have a raise in salaries from some 700 kuna to more. If this government were responsible, she would first of all solve the problem of execution and blockades. This government would take social measures, so it would give us, give these kids up free textbooks, give them free transportation, give them scholarships. These would therefore be measures taken by some kind of reform responsible government. The same government would encourage demographic measures, so it would increase maternity benefits, worry about families having a perspective, having a peaceful dream. But no. What is this government doing? This government is giving us a legal proposal to reduce VAT on imported vehicles, to reduce VAT on aircraft, to abolish VAT on imports of nuclear reactors. I really don't know who's importing them in Croatia, who put it in the law at all. And this government, let's say, is discussing what's going to be called a street, what's going to be called a square. Well, that doesn't interest the citizens at all. So this government is essentially dealing with what might be involved in some rich society that has solved all the problems, so here we are now bored so let's rename some streets or we'll put this monument, take this bust, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19877	Thank you very much. I'm asking all MPs to stick to the subject. You're aware you didn't stick to the subject. I ask you all who discuss stick to the topic, which is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax and Profit Tax, not on busts, plates, street names, etc. Well, good. The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19878	Respect to the chairman. I would like first of all to welcome the girls who are at the gallery, they are interested in this debate, but unfortunately I see that their HDZ colleagues are not interested in this debate on these amendments to the IRS because most of them are not even present. Namely, the increase in VAT for hosts will result in their breakdown because the only reason they accepted fiscalisation without active resistance was because the VAT was reduced simultaneously, so they will be in trouble. And the other and the crucial thing that keeps hiding and running away from it is that this country's main problem is that it's rabbit-free, so there's not enough money in circulation, there's no liquidity. That's why young people are broke, that's why they're getting out of this country because there's no money here. And we're not here to discuss why there's a rabbit bum in the country, but we're discussing how we're going to get what little money we have left over. And these tax reforms that you've been doing for the last 20 years, 25 years as far as we can see, none of these reforms have solved social problems. And if there is an apparent problem with this monetary financial side from the role of the CNB why the role of the CNB is not changed, why this restrictive tax policy is not questioned if it is clear that a restrictive monetary policy is the cause of an aggressive tax policy, it is not discussed. And here I'm asking you, Mr. Bunjac, to try to figure out whose interests the HDZ gentlemen are protecting by not wanting to change monetary policy and which is why these tax changes are actually being brought in with the goal that a few people have as stated by fellow Maras 60 thousand kunas more per year will get, and the vast majority of people will get little or nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19879	Thank you. The honourable representative Branimir Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19880	Thank you, colleague Pernar. Yeah, you've actually brought out the essence of this problem. In fact, he's heading towards taking someone who doesn't have one and then giving it to someone who doesn't have one. And in fact, this tax reform should go in the direction of taking those who have and that they should be given to those who do not. So we're going to take five thousand jobs in agriculture now, but in a way that we're going to shut down five thousand jobs in catering, and then tomorrow we're going to open five thousand jobs in the store by shutting down five thousand jobs in agriculture. And so in a way, this whole economy whose model represents the government looks like a dog that's been spinning around all the time trying to bite its tail. So nothing really matters. Therefore, as counterpart Pernar said, to enable this country to make bigger revenues, it should be possible to combat tax evasion and corruption primarily, and only when a fair system is achieved in economic business is then to go to tax reform and I believe that in that case no one would object to having a part of the obligation, and this leaves the impression that one group is privileged, and the other group is to be punished, and in fact those who cooked it all up are still going past it and in some ways are allowed to people who are fighting for bread.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19881	Thank you. The last replica is the distinguished representative Sabine Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19882	Thank you very much. He's a friend of yours. I agree with you in the part where you see banks as the biggest winners, and even the profiteers, I'll say it like that, especially when we're talking about today's two bill proposals, but that story won't stop. If you follow a little media then you can see that such a pompous announcement is made that young people and families will be compensated for the tax advantage of buying the first real estate through the share of the state in co-financing of credit wars in the first four years. But the other day the news also came out in the media that actually people who have any savings will not be able to benefit from these same benefits of the state. So the question is whether it will actually go hand in hand to young families and young people when buying the first real estate, or whether the compensation measure will be an incentive of new credit responsibilities for 35 years where debt slavery of young and young families is encouraged and the question is what will happen to these loans after four years when the state comes out of co-financing of the war. Don't let God happen to us again the Swiss case. There will still be speeches about this, but it is not unrelated to this topic is not unrelated to the tax law package, and I think we should keep our eyes wide open about bank-state relations, tax reform-banks and how it will all be broken together and reflected on a small so-called. Man, especially in this case when we're still going to talk about housing loans and some help to young people.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19883	Comrade Voter, I asked nicely to stick to the subject. Everything you said had nothing to do with these two laws and you're aware of it. And I'd like to ask my colleague, Mr. Bunjec, not to answer in the same style now. to answer, there is nothing to answer in fact but you will obviously say something, but talk about the subject, talk about the subject please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19884	Thank you, Chairman. The replica should answer the question asked by the representative. I'm asking you to let me answer, since you didn't interrupt her exposure. So, as for banks, take a walk in the city of Zagreb and look at these palaces that the banks built at the time of the biggest crisis, so at the time when the citizens started digging through the garbage, the palaces were built here. Look at the salaries and administrations of the banks, I pray that the salaries of pension funds are finally brought to this House. I want to see those salaries. Tell Croatian citizens the truth. And as for fraud and, of course, now that the citizens are being imposed a new tax then they're being told you know we're going to subsidize interest, that's what Ivo Sanader said in 2005, in 2006, we're going to give you stimulating housing savings, we're going to subsidize interest and how long did that measure last? 2.3 years, just until the moment all the young people took out their loans, until 60 thousand loans were raised in Swiss francs and as much in euro. As soon as people took out the loans to encourage these measures, all these measures were immediately abolished, they immediately went for a change of course, they went for a change of interest, and in a large number of cases, they were left without these properties. Thus, “he doesn’t trust the Danites or the new ones. ”
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19885	Thank you very much. This was indeed closely related to VAT and profit tax. The next club of representatives is that of HNS, HSU in the name of which the distinguished representative Ivan Vrdoljak will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19886	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, we're going to try really briefly to adhere to two laws that are now on the agenda of profit tax and value added tax. The objective of all tax changes was to promote competitiveness and the economy, and I think these two key laws actually need to look back on this because real income tax goes more towards citizens and everyone else concentrates on other contributions to GDP and this is the only direction towards the economy. And that's why we want to look at it strategically. Our objections, and we also saw the answers after the first reading that they did not respect each other, the key regret of the strategic documents of the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, in a positive intention and in a good idea to cut the tax on profits to companies that have up to 3 million kuna incomes, I think it's a good thing, that it's not a bad idea for small and medium-sized enterprises, actually a little or a micro in this case, to be further encouraged. It's a little bit in the conflict with the Accounting Act and in the Accounting Act we have that companies are micro or small entrepreneurs at 5.2 million kuna, so it would be good to bring it together in some time and then always have the same criteria in the Accounting Act and in the Profit Tax Act. If it's not today's time. What's dangerous about that privilege of saying at a reduced profit tax rate is that it can happen that a company has incomes of 5 million kunas, a dozen employees and that it pays an 18% rate and that another company has one employee, has revenues of 2.5 million kuna and that the profit tax pays 12%. I also understand that this must be a direct link with other Investment Encouragement laws or whatever, but it thinks that the Ministry of Finance will have to deal with situations very quickly when new companies are set up to avoid any connection in order to keep the tax, total incomes below 3 million kuna. And in this way essentially avoided their obligation to increase the profit tax rate. It seems dimming for the growth of micro and small, if they are now at 2.5 million kuna, why would they want to grow to 4 or 5 million kuna a year if it takes 2 feet easier for them to outsource some services, it is easier for them to start new companies and even reduce employment in these companies than this. That's why I think it's going to be a subject very soon in half a year or a year and it doesn't matter it's a good intention to move in that direction. What we strongly resent in profit taxes is the elimination of reinvested profits. Reinvested we will also receive that amendment again and if you have decided to abolish it so do not line up from 1.1.2017. People are doing some business plans, postpone application from 1.1.2018 so that people who planned to invest in 2017 and calculated on the possibility of using reinvested profits have no reason to change their business plans. This is a one-time blow in 2017 with potential use perhaps to a greater extent but I do not see the reasons and damages that the increase in investment in fixed capital that is made possible by reinvested robbery because in the end of the line you yourself are predicting in your budget projections in 2017 and 2018. I will remind you in 2016 the growth of gross investment in fixed capital is almost 5% and you are planning to raise it to 8% in 2018, and we are abolishing one measure that prompted precisely that investment in fixed capital through reinvested profits. As far as VAT is concerned, we have far more objections, of course, because there is an eclectic example of non-reading of strategic documents. And so many times mentioned catering and tourist services where the largest growing branch in the end line has now come out, today data for the quarterly GDP growth of 2.9% is the biggest contribution to the growth of personal consumption and export of services, and this is also hospitality, tourism and hospitality. The strategic documents also provided for further VAT reductions. There is no reason for you to do this, you have decided to take that responsibility, of course you will also be responsible if there is a slowdown in tourism growth and the total volume of catering and tourist services. Further remarks to the VAT Act are that we really do not see absolutely in any message at any point in time stimulating exports and at which point we detimise imports. That's absolutely not in any sentence. And that's the issue of the GDP structure, and yesterday I stressed that we are going back to the 2008 GDP structure. Personal consumption, higher imports and in your projections is exactly what the increase in imports, the slowdown in exports, personal consumption is growing, state consumption is growing. And in this structure there will be GDP growth, but not one that would satisfy a serious country in some medium- and long-term plans where the GDP structure needs to be improved rather than just the amount. And everyone, it's clear to me completely that any economic measure or movement is periodic. And that today is the moment when we are growing GDP and increasing tax and budget revenues are taking some measures that are completely different from perhaps those that were three years ago or eight years ago or at any time because the situation at this point is such that we need to use positive growth rates on our proposal to further stimulate exports. Let's say a VAT reduction in strategic industrial branches to help exporters at the ICT. I support a strong stop, in fact, the intention of not increasing the VAT rate to drugs not to pay HZZO more, but because in this way we stimulate a strategic industry that is well-developed to be able to export more because they are then 13%, 12% more competitive than their rate is 25%. And for this reason, it is crucial that VAT policies should not lead the social policy or the cost of HZZO or the Ministry of Health, but export policy. We also used in these documents, in fact you used in the proposal very interesting cohesion we have, and this is an argument that raising tax rates to income can be used in the argument of growth consumption. So, growth is expected to be paid, and then it is also used as a compensatory measure for VAT growth in the catering sector, because the caterers will reduce the burden on salaries. This means that it is not expected to increase wages in the sector, but that owners will compensate their additional VAT on the reduction of wage costs, which will obviously remain the same in the final net amount. We need to decide whether the desire to increase income tax rates is actually an untaxable part we expect to end up spending in an increase in wages or in the real sector as a compensatory measure by additional tax burden on catering. So the real effects of these changes can be seen in the projections that you adopted the government the other day. GDP growth is expected in the next four years at levels 3.2, 3.3 to 3.5% and in 2016 it will be 2.8%, which means in the next four years we will work and almost nothing can contribute to healthy growth. But in this growth of GDP, the growth of consumption is very clear. What is the basis of GDP growth? Growth in personal consumption, growth in imports, slowdown in export growth, growth in state consumption and slow down growth in industrial production. So, it's all the opposite of what an ordinary citizen might wish for. That's what the projections say, that's how you predict it. I don't think that's good. Think about it, you're at the beginning of your term of office. These tax changes will bring some result, you still have time to plan in your projections that exports grow faster than imports. Why isn't that the focus of this government's mandate? Even after these tax changes, Croatia will remain an import country, an import economy without a clear vision of strategic development and respect for strategic documents. That's not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19887	Thank you. And on your exhibit, we have more replicas. She's the first one to be a respected representative of Branko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19888	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Vrdoljak, there's one more thing here when you're talking about profit tax. So I have to point that out again, mention it, and I think we're going to go with the amendment to change these things, and that's the elimination of tax exemptions on profit in assisted areas. We don't think there was any place in this law simply because it's a small expense. It's all somewhere between 40 and 50 million kuna a year. If only by reason of the rebalancing income from profit taxes has increased as much as a billion and 200 million kunas, then you can imagine how much that 50 million kuna means, and we take it to entrepreneurs in assisted areas. So it really doesn't make sense. I will remind this new proposal has been corrected for the city of Vukovar, of course, and remains the support of some 50% of the relief for areas in the first so-called. a group of assisted areas, i.e. those least developed. However, it has been completely abolished for another group, and I do not think that it should be returned to the law so that at least that part of regional policy remains in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19889	Thank you. The esteemed Vice President of this House will respond, the esteemed Ivan Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19890	Thank you very much, Vice President. You're right. You're right. It's not an amount that concerns the state budget, but apparently their idea was to simplify them. But when you talk, to simplify the system they usually turn out to be unfair. And that's always the way it is. And that's why we need to have a measure of simplicity so that the level of justice can be maintained. But since we're in the details of the profit tax in projections, so we've been incometing about a billion and 200, 300 million more this year than was planned at all. 6 billion were planned, we're at 7.2, 7.3 billion kuna. Despite the reduced rate from 20 to 18%, despite the reduced rate for small and micro entrepreneurs in projections, the plan is to grow from 4.5% of profit taxes in the next 4 years. Obviously, there is a reinvested profit in the game and these ones that have been picking from assisted areas that have not been so far, there is nothing else. If the rate is reduced from 20 to 18, if one part is released from 20 to 12 feet, and we are planning a growth in profit tax then it is obviously a large volume of reinvested and it is an investment in fixed capital and again we are in a collapsing is planning to double investment in fixed capital that goes through a new investment, but it also goes through the recapitalisation of existing companies. So it's a clear message, we're not going to stimulate the reinvested profit of investment in fixed capital, they're going to happen on their own. But these details of 40, 50 million kuna, regardless of the argument of simplification of the system, should be maintained level of justice and even development of Croatia and equal opportunities. And no government will permanently solve this problem, but every government has a commitment to take a step forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19891	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19892	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Vrdoljak. In your presentation, you mentioned not holding strategic decisions or concrete Tourism Development Strategy and problems related to VAT in tourism hospitality in particular. We know that through the strategy, further VAT reduction has been announced so that our very sector is competitive with the environment, if we know that the key to success in tourism is human, and most of the people who work in tourism are the seasonal workforce that comes from Slavonia and Baranja and other underdeveloped areas and we know that both trade unions and those who are dissatisfied with the level of personal income and that they are looking for an increase in personal income. Given the increased VAT on catering especially in these craftsmen who do not have accommodation services, there is probably a real risk that there will be a reduction in the number of employees and that there will be no salary growth and then no growth in personal consumption and in this context we think that this bill should define minimum wage which is your position on it, where do you think we should ic minimum wage? We think from the HSS and I personally need to define and raise the minimum wage to protect workers in order not to be exploited by employers both in tourism and in other sectors, and that these salaries must certainly grow if we want personal consumption to grow. And anyone who agrees with you should consider postponing the application so that the reinvested profit is not a tax relief especially in assisted areas, do we know that we have several announced investments in Slavonia and we fear that these investors will consider and withdraw their investment unless we can use it as a tax relief and we believe that there should be a delay until then until 2018. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19893	Thank you. The vice president of the House Ivan Vrdoljak will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19894	Thank you, Vice President. So as for the increase in expected wage increases in catering and tourism, it is not a danger that wages will not be increased. The finance ministry's response to the proposal to take care of strategic documents and not to increase VAT on hospitality is that tax reform proposed tax redundancies for the sector in terms of income tax, income tax and contributions. This means that the disbursement of income tax owners does not go to pay but is compensated for by a larger VAT. That's what we have in the document, so we don't have that danger. That's already the assessment. We'll spread your labour price, your net salary will remain the same, and all of our seasonal workers will have the same net salary, and that'll be compensated for raising your VAT. As far as minimum wages are concerned, you need to be careful. Every year, a minimum wage war should be considered at some rate that does not endanger labour intensive activities and low income activities can be questioned by tens and tens of thousands of jobs in these activities. The government can decide, and we also thought in our government when we gradually raised minimum wage every year, we thought at some point more extremely to raise minimum wage but only on one condition, that sectoral solutions that save the labour intensively and low income industry would be found. There is a collapsing of a European directive, and I agree that if we have a solution for further compensation to labour-intense industries, we should go to the minimum wage rates proposed, if we do not have a solution for them then no. Then every year with a few percent, with mathematics that we can all estimate with GDP growth rising prices, etc. raise the development of minimum wage every year. Our job in the next few years will be not only employment will be the growth of salaries of all of us who participate in this political life of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19895	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Boris Lalovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19896	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Vrdoljak. Well, I'm interested in your opinion because we worked together specifically on the reinvested income tax. What was the situation of the 2011 economy is the very low capitalisation of our companies. So small businesses were below 20% or somewhere at 15% to 16%, medium-sized enterprises were somewhere because of a large share of public goods or public enterprises had certain capital. It was a measure to raise small businesses' capital. Do you know what the measure is today? So not only is it seen how many of the companies are using this measure but the effect needs to be seen, and the minister himself said over billions of kunas were only in one year, which means that a billion kuna was invested in fixed assets in that part. And when you look at Finna's 2015 data, it's evident that the share of small businesses' capital has risen to 21.22%. What does that mean? It means that these small businesses have also become more potent in processing credit requirements for financing their activities because simply banks have spent all the collateral, had a low share of capital, and it was simply a measure to encourage investment, to raise the capital of small businesses, because the problem in Croatia is low capitalisation of businesses, not only the problem of poor placements of these companies. So I am now interested in this measure because I also know that some public companies seem to be very useful to me to the HEP investment policy of reinvesting profits, and in this way he was one of the investors of the investment policy in the energy sector. So the overall impact of this measure will certainly be seen in the coming years, but we should not only look at that small number of businesses but we should look at the multiplier effect on the economy as well today this economic growth of 2.9% in the largest part relates to investment and to gross investment in fiscal capital. And that's what I mean by that measure that gave reinvested profits.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19897	Thank you. The Vice-President of the Parliament will respond, the esteemed Ivan Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19898	We worked together to identify the biggest problem, which is the low capitalisation of small, medium and even large enterprises, and there were more measures. And of course it's not just a question of whether they, with their fixed capital investments, will raise their productivity, production capacity, and resulting in higher exports such as, and greater industrial growth. This all comes from when companies invest in fixed capital. And yet another consequence that we must never forget is our struggle that our entrepreneurs have the same capital price as in Western Europe. We've been fighting this for 25 years. Our contractor is in debt by 4.5.3%, German today for 0.7 or 0.4. How can we help? That they were capitalized, that they were... to give them a chance to come into the bank and then some other measures of the CNB, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, etc. which we can encourage but both measures will not contribute to anything if we are not sufficiently capitalised. And that was the idea of reinvested profits, so we're going to suggest that you at least postpone it for a year. In that year nothing radical will happen, but I know personally entrepreneurs who have planned investments in this year and in the next year they will have to make new balances, new estimates and new commitments that come if they do not use reinvested profits. Why do such a shock work if we can, if you insist already, it is our proposal not to adopt at all, to leave the reinvested profits but if you already want to postpone for at least a year it is important for both export and employment, both for industrial growth and for capitalisation and the price of capital to our entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19899	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19900	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Vrdoljak, I do not have to say carefully reading this tax reform anywhere, reading your conclusion and finding that the minister told the caterers I will increase your VAT, but I will cut your income tax, so there will be a lower gross salary left to you. This is what you said in your statement that it is, to read that the caterers will practically not increase their employees’ wages because the difference that will now be made with these amendments will remain with entrepreneurs or with the caterers. The second thing you said, you say that this reform does not encourage, does not reduce imports and that you cannot read how and how it contributes to increasing exports. As far as imports are concerned, you and I know well that the most exports and imports of electricity are made in Croatia. It is one of the most exportable and imported electrical energy in Croatia, however, the most exportable and medicinal products. Medicinal products do not increase the VAT rate, according to which the reform does not have any effect, remains the same thing. However, what is imported a lot in Croatia and what we talk about these days is food. And I argue that these changes allow the reduction of food prices to occur through the reduction of the agricultural input. Thus, production is also encouraged and, in particular, leads to a reduction in the imports of at least food if not something else, and I argue that this tax reform in Croatia is otherwise produced. And to go back to what I said before, the caterers and taken a concrete measure through a reduction in the profit tax rate from 20 to 18 or from 20 to 12%. I think it is particularly helpful for Croatian entrepreneurs, and so are the caterers when they are entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19901	Thank you. The Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Ivan Vrdoljak, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19902	So I didn't read it through, figured it out on my own, but just got the answer from the finance ministry. The remarks and suggestions of the representatives of the HNS and HSU of my smallness that it is unnecessary and consistent with strategic documents on the increase. The Ministry of Finance responds to tax reform and proposed tax redundancies for the economy in terms of profit, income tax and contributions. That means the Ministry of Finance says we compensate the hosts for the VAT increase by reducing the income tax burden that goes to the owners. It's the Ministry of Finance's answer to me. It's not my conclusion. So that's what I really got in the document before the second reading. It's a great measure from 20 to 18, and I've praised it a few times. The general concept of total tax changes that I do not call reform at the beginning of the mandate is a great idea, so I'm not running away from a bunch of things to be commended, can't be more than 18%. Well, of course, but it's to expect some other governments to go to 15, to 20 to be competitors. All I understand, but let's try to understand that in remarks when we say that the reinvested profit is a multiplier of many other good effects that come to the economy that this proposal also makes sense, so it costs a billion, that the truth is costing a billion. That means I agree that it's taxed on profit from 20 to 18 that's a great measure if it comes to profit. In order to make a profit, you have to invest, you have to think about the price of wages, you have to pay more, if you pay more, you won't have a profit tax because? Well, then it doesn't matter to you because it's 18 or 20 or so. That means when the whole, I realize that the Ministry of Finance and the government are working, they're looking at the whole package, but in the whole package, focus, stimulate with a smaller VAT. In addition to the pharmacy that we agreed was excellent, which remains not only because of the price of medicines in Croatia and that you pay HZO but primarily for export. So why didn't the ICT do it? 360 thousand employees, the volume per NKD is not too large, so let's cut that VAT, and give these software a chance to be more competitive. It was in our proposals and in a constructive debate. So this isn't a black white world, there's a lot to praise but there are a lot of things that we're proposing with this good intention because it's going to help.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19903	Thank you. Next on behalf of the HSS Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative, Ana-Marie Petin, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19904	Thank you, dear Vice President. So here's the tax reform second reading, we all comment on most of the same as we did when it was first reading, and unfortunately nothing has changed, and I'm afraid it will also end up voting here and after the second reading, where simply the Government has made its proposal. Minister of Finance Mr. Maric has made a proposal which is supported by the government and simply we can comment, talk, give our proposals, and there are good proposals by the opposition but I am afraid that nothing will be appreciated. However, we also want to make a contribution to these facts in front of the Croatian Peasant Party's club, and we want to make a contribution to this debate, which I said goes in the direction of these other proposals that came in the first reading, but here we are already in the second. When it comes to reinvested profits, I must agree with my colleagues that we are against the elimination of tax reliefs for reinvested profits because they were aimed at preserving existing jobs because it was an order to invest in long-term assets that serve to carry out the activity that again serves to further develop business, thus preserving jobs. Since we are in a situation where we have over 300 thousand unemployed, so many blocked, since our workers are working for very low wages, for minimum wages and this way of eliminating tax relief on reinvested profits simply in front of the HSS club, we are afraid that this will go in the direction of job layoffs, i.e. in the direction that existing jobs will not be kept, which in this situation is very, very bad. When we talk about VAT itself on amending the Value Added Tax Act as well as everyone here, we must also touch ourselves, which is reducing VAT to certain catering services, i.e. increasing to certain catering services. And when we talk specifically about this article 38rd paragraph 3 where accommodation or accommodation services with breakfast, half board or full board in hotels or facilities are said to be paid at a rate of 13%. Here I am right now asking the minister what objects are similar purposes simply that it must be defined exactly which objects it is thought of, in order not to really come into the situation as at the host congress we will put the bed upstairs in the restaurant on the ceiling, and then we will pay the rate of 13%, not 25. So here I am asking that this be precisely defined which objects are similar purposes that will pay a 13% tax, not 25%. And we think it's very bad, that it will go in the further direction of firing workers because here we all boast about tourism, we all boast about the effects of our tourism. And now that we're on that side, we're finally raising VAT to 25%, and we're simply turning from hollow to empty, and I'm afraid there's only going to be negative consequences. This is also because this Croatian Parliament adopted the Tourism Development Strategy by 2020 and was adopted with a large majority of votes, where 98 MPs who are sitting here today voted for the strategy. There were only five abstentions. Then I wonder why strategies like this should be adopted that should apply by 2020 when, by changing power, a new government makes its own rules, it goes in its own direction. And it's just not good for our country. And I'm going back to the very beginning of my debate, but also the previous one when we were discussing tax reform in the first reading in general, a set of these laws, and that's what we want the country in which we're going, which is what we want our country to be and then we need to define ourselves by adopting both the strategy and the adoption of tax laws. If this is in order to strengthen large companies which, apart from 400 million kuna, will get now I don't know 500 million kunas to get, do we want our employees, that our employees have minimum wages still. I can see there's no intensity to raise minimum wage. Do we want to develop agriculture, tourism? Because what we bring here in the Croatian Parliament as here, let's say this strategy which is now being addressed by tourism for 2 years afterwards simply this strategy is no longer valid, is being raised to tourist hosts, i.e. catering facilities, and we are going back to the very beginning. This distinction between VAT and payment of VAT rates will definitely have a negative impact on the competitiveness of Croatian tourism and hospitality. And no matter how much comparisons there are, how much cheaper we are than other countries, and when tourists come to us, they don't think about how much VAT is. But I'm sure they're thinking about the final price of a product that, after introducing this 25% rate, it's certainly not going to be the same final price. Similarly, when we talk about hospitality and VAT itself, this proposed amendment in Article 38(3) makes a big difference in the way of taxation and these different rates for the same type of service. So we're talking about preparing and serving food catering. Therefore, for the same type of food service in the hotel, a change in the rate of 13% is foreseen through bed and breakfast services or half-board services, while for the same service in the extra-board offer, or in restaurants and other catering facilities, the application of the rate of 25% is prescribed. We think that this will ultimately not have a good effect equally on our OPGs who supply certain restaurants with their products and that we will also refer to the amendment that we have agreed with HOC, which is to equate VAT in food-produced restaurants as well as those who do not have accommodation. When we talk about changes in the system of income tax and income tax with regard to the recognition of the costs of the team, we propose that the costs for the representation and, in terms of the hosting of business partners be recognised as a whole, and therefore, the VAT contained in the price of the costs for the team is also recognised as a deduction of the pre-tax. Thus, the costs of a business-related team would become an integral part of normal business practice would be equal to other operating costs, and believe that in this way, a part of that grey market would be resolved because it is now much easier to pay without an account because these costs are not recognised in the cost of business and there is no right to deduct the pre-tax. Also, as I was already saying in my first reading, I mentioned a reduction in VAT rates on children's seats as a certain compensatory measure, as the minister said to exempt the first real estate tax. I think it's just ridiculous that I'm in his place and I wouldn't even mention it. I have three children I have a big family and I haven't bought a single car seat, these are things that last for years, I got everything, and that way I absolutely and families with children are absolutely not going on hand and in this way it's not helping either the demographic picture of Croatia or the young families who unfortunately are leaving our country more and more. I think the tax exemption in buying the first real estate was one way to help young people, however, to make sure that the difference between the equipment of their apartments or houses and thus simply motivate them to stay here in their own country. Also when we talk about VAT here, I am glad that the rate has dropped to 13% and for food for animals, and we will suggest that it be reduced for veterinary medicinal products and services as well, because if we want to help livestock and agriculture in which this government is, but all of us sitting so swearing then we need to reduce the VAT to both veterinary medicines and services and simply take that into account. But what I would like to say at the end is that it takes much, much more drastic measures than those proposed by this tax reform. This tax reform simply flows from hollow to empty, as has already been said here, one is taken to give to others, and it is necessary to help the economy and the economy in the right way. It is necessary to look at what all our craftsmen and entrepreneurs have to do with both the state and how much they pay to banks for various financial transactions, for early card business, and when you add it all together then it turns out that today our craftsmen and businessmen are nothing but money collectors for the state because over 50% of their incomes give to the state and for that transfer the bank takes a large, large part of the money so that ultimately they earn very little for themselves, and even employ a large number of people. Here I suggest that this tax reform, although this is already a second reading, as I said it will certainly be adopted in the form that we are given for reading, but I suggest that one more time consider taking all the suggestions and all the suggestions of the club representatives since there are very good proposals that come from all sides of all clubs and I think it is necessary to sit down and take a good look at where we want our country and where we want to see our Croatia in five or ten years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19905	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He is the first of his distinguished representatives, Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19906	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So in the context of this debate, the reinvested profit is mentioned again. I do not believe it is possible to go with such a proposal to cut tax rates to profit and at the same time keep this advantage for reinvested profits. But that's why I'm just saying why the model of encouraging reinvestment was better than this right now. Because let's say ten million kunas get these new measures say you'll pay two hundred thousand kuna less taxes. Two hundred thousand kuna is nothing for an entrepreneur, it's so much depreciated support or help or a Suport that simply won't be an effect. If you had previously been able to use two million kunas to reinvest the state, then the effect is undoubtedly there, so he is growing he is new employment and he is increasing the credibility of the company itself what his colleagues were saying earlier in terms of increasing capitalisation and strengthening the company. Therefore, there is no doubt that it was a model that rewarded those who were willing to invest and develop, which is what we needed in Croatia both yesterday and the day before and what we will need even more in the future. Therefore, I would, of course, support this conclusion of yours that the model has been reinvested, the relief for reinvested profits has been much more productive, much stronger than the naked release or reduction of the rate of taxation gets where this aid is distributed to a whole series of small entities and that money in principle may, and may never end up in some kind of consumption, personal consumption. So investment is a much stronger contribution to the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19907	The Honorable representative Ana-Marie Petin will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19908	That's right, dear fellow, I absolutely agree with you, I said so in my presentation because just in the conversation with entrepreneurs and businessmen, they mentioned the relief for reinvested profits as very useful, which they directed into further business development and a large number of businesses grew in this way and secured new jobs, and even from their close surroundings we have several examples. And precisely because the praises for this way come from the entrepreneurs themselves and we point out that this is a good way and that what is good that should not, that absolutely should not be changed.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19909	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19910	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, in your presentation, you presented the problem and dissatisfaction in the Chamber of Brethren, or the host. They also publicly showed it at this last meeting of theirs, and I agree with you that not only should this sector be damaged in a certain way and carry the burden of tax reform, because our goal was to continue to increase tourism revenues and extend the season, not only for three months, but for six months, preferably a year. On the other hand, we think that further development of continental tourism and we think that our family economies in both Baranja and Slavonia, Zagorje and others who have set out to deal with rural tourism in this way will come into financial difficulties and I think that the Minister and the Ministry of Tourism and Economy must then find some other compensatory measures to allow for further development of continental tourism. I think there are models that have already been applied in some other countries, as well as in us. I would remind you that we have had the co-financing of travel agencies for every guest to be brought to a destination in Baranja, Slavonski Brod or another destination and that in this way we must help further develop continental tourism, which can be an additional source of income in these less developed areas and that this is a chance precisely for Slavonia and Baranja and through continental tourism. It is also necessary to consider young craftsmen, entrepreneurs who are instituting their crafts, and up to 30 years of age, that it is absurd that they cannot use the benefits of self-employment and that this inequality must certainly be abolished so that for those crafts that are founded by young people up to 30 years of age they can also use tax benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19911	Thank you. They'll respond to the distinguished representative, Petin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19912	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative. Yeah, speaking of which, there's a lot of talk about raising VAT in catering, and there's a lot of dissatisfaction. I mean, people aren't unsatisfactory. Of course this will result in layoffs, of course that will result in more young people leaving Croatia. Look, for Slavonia it was sort of a rescue summer season, tourist season at sea when our Slavons went down to the sea to work as waiters, as cooks, and we're afraid they won't even be able to do it now. Although it's very difficult to say that simply from Slavonia they can't wait for the 4th and 5th months to go down to the sea to work like seasons, but it was true. And now with this raise of VAT, we're afraid we're simply taking that opportunity away from them and they're going to be forced to do anything but go outside because there's no job for young people, and this way he won't be. And here's my colleague Vlaovic, just like he mentioned, there's a series of absurdities to pay attention to, which is, say, if you get a job, you finish high school and you get a job at the company and the company owner gets you benefits from paying your contributions, as long as you get a job yourself, you open a trade and you don't have the right to make those concessions. So there are a number of absurdities, I ask you to consider all these situations to help young people work because it is guaranteed by the Constitution among other things by their right to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19913	The last replica, the distinguished representatives of Grozdana Perić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19914	Dear colleagues, it is quite justified to expect that every branch of the economy if it feels in any way hurt to react in the way the hosts did. However, everyone here you mention, and longer you've probably been here in this Croatian Parliament than I have, on the tourism strategy that has been brought here, and I wonder if anyone has taken into account that in this tourism strategy stands or stood to reduce the income tax, that the entry parameters will eventually be reduced, and that means that there will be a lower price, less burden on municipal services, a lower price in terms of electricity here and also the input parameters for these same hosts and companies. Thus, it was unlikely that something would change. Well, in that sense, we shouldn't swear on a document that is the Holy Scriptures, because in this case, for sure, this government doesn't want any branch of the economy at risk, especially one that grows at such extraordinary rates. Also, when you mentioned the OPGs, so isn't the advantage of the OPGs that have entered the 230-thousand VAT system so far, they're now going to enter with 300 grand. So again, such OPGs are heavily protected in this way because they significantly increase that ceiling.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19915	Thank you. They'll respond to the distinguished representative, Petin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19916	Here's a thank you to a respected rep rep. So we in Croatia when we speak, when we give some criticism, then it is said that there, and on the other hand, they will have cheaper electricity. Super's gonna have cheaper power, so let's get 'em up to 25%. Well, I don't know, two years ago, there was this strategy, and most of you were sitting there. And now all of a sudden, the government applies itself, and then the proposals come out of your side, and then it's all great, let's forget where we came from, forget what environment we came from, forget the problems and the environment because that's how someone suggested it from your party, and then we need to look at it as a whole of one tax reform. But we're damaging one sector, damageing one sector that has begun to advance, which has begun to grow. We're going from hollow to empty, we haven't given any concrete and drastic measures to start this economy right. I'm not against good and concrete measures, we're gonna super-decease VAT on profit, profit tax, great, I didn't say it was a bad measure, it's good, but by 18% we're still uncompetitive about the environment equally. I just want to start the economy. I believe that you all want it, so let's not forget where we came from and say that something is great, that something is good just because the proposal came from one side. The strategy was voted by 98 MPs. I wasn't there then, some were sitting here. So that's a good strategy. From 103 to 98, it was for you. So let's stick to some strategy that we bring in. Tomorrow we'll bring up a strategy on agricultural development, and in two years' time, we'll do something that someone doesn't like because maybe the other side will get power. Let's not do that, let's all work together for the sake of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19917	Thank you. Now we will move to individual debates and the first will speak to the distinguished representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19918	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At the beginning, I will say that these changes to the VAT Act are especially as regards tourism and this increase in VAT from 13% to 25% disaster and I simply cannot believe that the government of Croatia, the ruling majority of HDZ and MOST, are going to cut the branch on which they are sitting, to prevent further development of the most promising industrial branch of industry in Croatia that employs over a hundred thousand people, which brings us almost 20% of GDP, which has driven not only the economy and tourism but has started and I would say construction. We see how many years have been in Croatia, in fact, projects especially in Dalmatia, so I'm surprised at the people who came from the Most coming from Dalmatia, the leaders were Mr. Petrov, Mr. Kovacic, Mr. Bulj. So the region that gets the most from tourism is essentially their people tearing down tourism and cutting the branch they're sitting on. Hundreds of thousands of people who will have higher operating costs next year, not only, someone calculated a billion kunas more per year, I think that's a lot more. I think that the increase in the cost of tourism, or through these changes to the VAT Act, will be measured in billions of kuna, I think that will work between 2 and 3 billion kunas. And now you explain to me how someone can deal with our competitors in Europe, countries like Italy, France, Greece, Spain and others who have invested significantly in tourism, which reduce their rates to 5%. Croatia invents hot water, not Croatia, but the Croatian government, MOST and HDZ invent warm water and additionally burden our entrepreneurs. That's completely different from what they announced in this campaign, that's the election I'd say and the fraud. When it was said that entrepreneurs would be disbanded, when it was said that people would be easier to work, they essentially entered with a measure that would add to tens of thousands of entrepreneurs and craftsmen. The story of tax cuts to 12 and 18%, respectively, is to throw dust in the eyes. For what? It is the calculations of Minister Maric of 350 million kuna, perhaps 400. When you divide it into 150 thousand small, medium craftsmen and entrepreneurs eventually get the amount of 2400 kuna per entrepreneur. So that's the concrete help entrepreneurs and craftsmen will feel. Two hundred kunas give them MOST and HDZ and on the other hand 12% higher costs to those involved in tourism and who invest in tourism, who have invested billions and who would still invest billions. So this profit tax reduction measure is not absolutely any compensatory measure, it will absolutely not help in tourism almost to anyone, and in particular it will not compensate for this incompetence that they have received from the government. And so I ask you to think again, so don't say these craftsmen, entrepreneurs themselves, and for no reason at all. They pointed to problems at several professional gatherings. The minister did not appear in Split at a meeting of tourists in tourism, he sent his assistant who gave a speech there, which I would say accompanied by great consideration not because people think they are taking something that they do not deserve, but because of what is simply going to be much harder to do next year. I'm a little surprised at this moment really when the Croatian economy is going in the right direction, when GDP growth is 3% almost, when revenue in the budget is such that despite 4 billion kunas of higher costs. Look, we decided in the proposal next year's budget 4 billion kuna to increase costs, but that's why we took away billions of kuna. For what? Which is why these people who have their facilities, and it is about many OPGs, are tourist workers in the continental part of Croatia who are going to get into serious problems because of this incompetence and difficult business. I would dare say that many of them will shut down their companies. Which is why they are the only ones who get a minus in this whole reform, which is additionally burdened by this message and these decisions obviously don't count. And on that side, I can't support that approach, and I'm surprised at one more thing. The craft chamber is very quiet. I'm surprised Mr. Ranogajek, president of the Chamber of crafts when I reduced my craftsman's contribution four years ago to the Chamber of crafts was very loud, he was yelling everywhere, and now he's barely giving a lecture once. He says he's against it instead of being here in the conference room with the craftsmen and saying to the MPs, don't do it. This also shows whether the Chamber of crafts is actually small and under political pressure does not work on which it should work. Well done, Mr. Shepak, president of the House of Hosts, but I wish the Chamber of crafts was a little louder when it comes to their representatives. For the Croatian Chamber of Commerce I am not surprised at all, there is a HDZ from Vinkovac, so on that side which had very little to do with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce before. So he'll probably keep his mouth shut all the time and say how this government is doing great, and basically what entrepreneurs think about the Chamber of Commerce we all know very well together don't have to talk too much about it. In the end, I mean, don't do it, don't shut it down. The minister said at the beginning that the tax reform would lead to the opening of 10,000 new jobs. I am absolutely certain that 10,000 jobs in Croatian tourism will be extinguished by this tax reform. What are we talking about here, people? About what? About the burden of a pro-pulsive branch with which Croatia is proud, the Croatian economy. And I can't believe, once again I'm saying that people who come from these environments, who live with these people, I who worked at the HBOR Supervisory Board where we approved dozens of projects see how it works, how people work well, how they invest, how foreign investment from Turkey, from other countries, that we're sending a message, don't invest 12% we're going to increase your costs and it won't be anything, or it won't be as much I would say profitable as it has been. So my suggestion is leave it the way it was. The SDP representative club has proposed such an amendment. Let's stay 13% or else I'll argue that we should have gone even more competitively for 5% and another rate lower to capture competitiveness with other countries. And as for getting businesses at this point, I think you can go even at a lower rate for small entrepreneurs and for all entrepreneurs, given the billions and 200 million kuna more taxes on profits paid last year and which shows that the Croatian economy is going in the right direction. That's why I'm going to give the amendment to make small entrepreneurs up to three million kuna profit tax 10%, and to all other entrepreneurs 16% because obviously there's room for that in the budget. On the other hand, the compensation measure that raises 230 thousand to 300 thousand to enter the VAT system is also not good enough. If we're already trying to help those smallest ones, we should have gone to maybe an even bigger amount, maybe we could put four hundred thousand kunas and include a large part of the smallest entrepreneurs and craftsmen themselves who work to let's just say it more competitively for their services that they offer on the market. So once again, I'm going to say this proposal to me personally is a disaster and I can't support it at all, and I'm surprised at the people who will raise their hand to him especially those who come from the tourist environments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19919	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused a lot of replicas, so let's start from the beginning. The first came the distinguished representative Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19920	Thank you, Chairman. Comrade Maras, of course you're absolutely right when you claim that MOST has made an election scam on its voters. I'd just like to briefly remind myself of those who have amnesia and these seem pretty much so. That MOST here in Mark's square so in front of this building promised that Croatia would have nine counties, 99 MPs, which is otherwise anti-constitutional to achieve full food independence, to advocate ecological agriculture. Here's what we're suggesting is that we even mention it in the budget because otherwise it's neither mentioned nor any funds are provided for, that the salaries of our representatives will be nine thousand 999 kuna in the first year, and the second year will fall another 50% if we're not good. Then they said they would give extra money to young entrepreneurs to lend 99,99 kuna without interest, so basically a very nice promise. But what do we see now? We see essentially that there is nothing of these promises, there are no credits but there are more taxes for catering to be used by one branch to cover some budget gaps, and as they tend to give money to the needy, we saw yesterday in accepting amendments to the book where they were not prepared to give up even 200 thousand kuna from the Parliament to give children that they can finally read these school books that are required for their education and normal development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19921	Thank you very much. The Honorable Representative Gordan Maras will respond. But I'm begging you again, let's stick to the subject. Again, you did not normally stick to the subject, and I am convinced that your colleague Gordan Maras will stick to a strict subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19922	Here, I won't disappoint you. Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bunjac, I will tell you that the electoral fraud, but there I even more think about HDZ because they talked about me that they would relieve Croatian entrepreneurs in the campaign, they also had the IFO program they also had that famous program from Prnjavor 5 plus, so that's the problem. When you speak, we will relieve you, and then 12% raise value added tax in one sector is fraud. I have no other words than that it's a fraud and they should have said it before the election. Why didn't you say that, Mr. Minister, before the election, that entrepreneurs in tourism and catering don't vote for you. So what's it to be a fraud, if you say we're going to unload you and then tens of thousands of entrepreneurs in the catering charge with 12% of the larger VAT? I am convinced that HDZ, and MOST would probably be opposed to having a debate in the campaign because they are, of course, always as they would say in campaigns much louder about these popular measures, and then making opposition to the position and ultimately making nothing at all, means a little halabuca will ultimately not happen. But the HDZ bothers me because they were honest in the campaign, not that they were following that proverb to lie most after the hunt and before the election campaigns. HDZ to absolutely. Did you say you'd relieve the entrepreneurs? Yes, it is. Did you load them with 12% higher VAT? Yes, it is. Well very clearly, please don't be so hard on the MOST, they're just there to create the impression that something's wrong, and in the end they're still raising the HDZ hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19923	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19924	Thank you very much. I listened very carefully to you, and today perhaps we should clarify these stories about this strategy for the development of Croatian tourism that was adopted in 2013, then proposed by the Minister of IDS, you adopted it as a government, so let's see what's on page 14. Analysis of the competitive position of the Republic of Croatia in tourism i.e. in tourism or an environment that is close to us. We're among 30 in the world on competitiveness. Where we are most competitive, by the number of hotel rooms, room for renters, ATMs, car rental 4th place, destination for tourism 20th place, availability of cultural attractions 30th place, quality of health care 32nd place, personal security 33rd means we speak in the world. Where we were the weakest competitive, worst human potential competitiveness in 83rd place and a legitimate environment. And as it says on page 15, according to the price competitiveness indicator, we're the most competitive in the Mediterranean. That's what you adopted. Who gave up the main objectives of implementing the Strategy for Development of tourism for the Republic of Croatia for the period up to 2020. It says that one of the objectives of the 10% VAT rate is that of it. However, the first following behaviour of the SDP government was raising the overall rate and for hotel accommodation also means half boards, pensions, and catering services from 10% to 13%. So SDP then gives up its target set and now sells the story of catering services as the most important part of the competitiveness of the Republic of Croatia, and the analysis of the competitiveness of the Republic of Croatia does not mention VAT as part of competitiveness but rather the price of the total price. Are we going to stop this story or continue on a daily basis with political needs to say that it is the most important segment of Croatian tourism? If you continue it, if you trust your document then be correct and tell me we gave up the Tourism Development Strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19925	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Gordan Maras will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19926	Thank you very much. Mr. Boric, the difference between 10 and 13 is 3, and from 13 to 25 is 12, it knows and the child is not quite the first, but in the second certainly elementary, however probably also in the second term of the first elementary school. So the difference on that side is 12, and here's the difference 3. So please, don't even it up, this is a very serious blow and you can tell by how they reacted back then. Well, I guess they know best. They don't need you in tourism and caterers to explain whether it was the same as it is now. We didn't hear protests like this at the time, we didn't hear this kind of concern because very simply, people realized that 3% can handle it, but 12% can't stand it. On the other hand, this tourism development strategy has received consensus support in the Croatian Parliament. So, between them and HDZ. Another inconsistencies and changes in those attitudes you had a few years ago, and you're talking about the price, so it won't affect 12% of VAT. How it won't affect the price, so the price will rise. Well, look, I think it's the same question of healthy logic, there's not much math. 12%. So look at their winnings. Well, they don't have that kind of gain that they can handle 12%. So if the sector had 20% gain, then I'd say, okay, load them with 12%, but if they get you at 4.5%, so you can't charge them with 12%. It's very simple. Elemental mathematics, and this one that 12 is more than 3 I say, that and the kid in the second grade of primary school.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19927	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19928	Mr. Maras, thank you very much for your commendation to the Most. Indeed, each time you make it neat and nice for the entire public to recognize it, and especially for me, one of the best ministers since 1990. You have the right to say that to all the public. Thank you for 100 thousand evicted Croatian citizens from Slavonia for the incentives that had to end from European funds in pockets, i.e. in the development of OPGs in Slavonia. Thank you for the 100 billion kuna debts that are due today, we see what the budget situation is like. The proof is that the technical government that could not, which had no time to put together Mr. Oreshkovic, has positive indicators up to 3%, is visible in this last quarter, and you are quite proof that Croatia is much better off without the government than you were in, and I can thank you even more, so examples really in Croatia, tourism, should be given as much as possible. She needs to be freed. But how to patch up the 100 billion kuna hole your government owed. Who authorized your government to owe 100 billion kuna? Is it the people? Whoever tasked the Croatian government to encourage wind power plants, renewable energy sources, paid Croatian citizens out of their pockets, but will not now collect electricity, you did not notice. You were wearing that basket. Have you noticed now that bread and supplies are being collected, don't you see? Repromaterials to farmers, unfortunately, will not have much influence because you have moved away because they have not made money in the pockets of these people. And previous governments have done it before, not just you. But I really thank you for your commendation to the Most, and it's really wonderful to hear you hear, listen, once again here's a warm thank you in front of the whole public.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19929	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Gordan Maras will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19930	Well, I admit, really to the Most, here's the human component. They showed that the best man wasn't a button. So you can really see it from that side of the bridge. They take care of it, about people, especially their own, the best man is not a button and really needs a man and thanks to MOST and give him credit. But on the other hand for seriousness, Mr. Bulj, you often use absolutely wrong data in your discussions. It was not 100 thousand people who moved out of Slavonia to happiness, nor did Croatian emigration stop in 2016, unfortunately, nor did the government have any connection to the technical Tihomir Oreskovic that fell apart. Nobody even remembers that government since two months ago, with what I just said about the public debt being reduced, it has absolutely nothing to do with it. So that's what the government that's up to now says in its reports that the positive trends of 2015 have contributed to all these things. Give me a minute, I mean, not at first and don't at what you seem to be right, no. Try to stop a bit, think, read, react, complete that whole story and then come out with a statement. So don't say it by heart. So, first of all, it's not exactly the data you said. Secondly, it is not true that this is the result of the work of Tihomir Oreshkovic and his government, because it is simply not possible. All these trends started in 2015, and I promise you that still, whenever I see that consistency and the struggle of MOST for small people from Metkovic, I will always commend you. Because really a godfather isn't a button.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19931	Thank you. Before we cross over, I'd like to ask you to let us back on the strict subject, and since some obviously forgot, it's VAT and profit tax. So let's, please, stick to the subject. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Zeljko Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19932	I'd like to ask Mr. Maras' humble opinion on two key questions. They're tied to the profit directly, but since I haven't been here before. First, double taxation of pensioners coming outside and that law, as I know, was created in 2011, carried out in 2012. About Double Taxation [[We'll discuss it this afternoon. You're talking about...]] No, no, it's on pension, double taxation, yeah. [[Intruder Reiner: Yes, but this is neither VAT nor tax profit.]] I wasn't here. [[Intruder Reiner: These are the laws we will discuss this afternoon.]] Yeah, that's a question about that and most people who have to pay not only to pay taxes in the country where he worked, but now he pays up to 36%, they're returnees from, say, Switzerland, America, England, etc. I don't know, it's pure profit for the state, these people, a lot of people aren't coming back. Second question also for property tax, e.g. to a grandfather taken from him after 45 years. We have thousands, this is a key question, thousands of apartments where people moved in after 45, and the real owners, the ones I know, are paying for the maintenance of those apartments and someone else lives there. It was not solved, in Slovenia they solved the problem simply, they found another apartment. And it's totally dimming, and it's going to totally dim some people back here. Yeah, and that's the problem when most of the land books aren't arranged here. I don't know who's going to invest in common sense here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19933	Thank you. Here's a colleague, Maras, who'll answer something.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19934	Thank you very much. Mr. Glasnovic, you have highlighted several problems that are not a problem specifically with these laws, but they are the ones that torture our people. As far as I know in the income tax changes will be covered by the work and these people you spoke of but in Croatia if you live here and if you are registered here and if you use it should pay a tax here. So you're not paying a safe tax in Canada if you're registered and living in Croatia. And it is for every soul to choose in which land they shall have a dwelling, where they shall live. So I don't believe that taxes are paid in both Canada and Croatia. Although there are problems here, I can tell you from personal experience that many of our companies and I am sorry that something is not made to make the Minister of Economy Mrs. Dalic who worked both at the IMF and in Washington use her influence and her connections and finally sign an agreement on avoiding double taxation between the US and the Republic of Croatia. Our companies are opening up their companies and our people are opening up their companies in England, Hungary, in America to charge what they sell especially information companies that earn the most on the market, open their branches out there because we fail to solve it. So that's one priority number one for the IT industry and there I agree with Mr. Vrdoljak that if we were to support someone as we supported tourism is exactly the information industry. So it's a relatively small number of companies and a small number of employees that generates great added value. And there's a lot of potential, and that's what we should be investing in. As far as land books are concerned, I agree absolutely with you. It's cancer of the early Croatian economy and society for the past 25 years and we need to get rid of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19935	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19936	My colleague Maras, I must admit, I'm surprised at you. You're saying HDZ cheated on voters, that they should have said that they would increase VAT hosts so that the caterers knew that they were voting for them or that you wouldn't vote for them. You're surprised HDZ cheated on voters and I'm surprised you're surprised you're surprised. Well, HDZ's been cheating on voters ever since it was founded. So remember Sanader's security card. Yet again, a number of Croatian citizens choose such HDZ that they are constantly deceived. They're people like that. It doesn't matter if HDZ cheated on voters, they cheated on voters, they cheat on voters, and they'll cheat on voters further. How much damage does this VAT increase bring to the hospitality of the Republic of Croatia? The most promising branch of tourism and part of it is hospitality. Why is he attacking them? Well, because they give, they have the most profit, which is where they'll be kidnapped the most. You're talking about the Most, don't be so critical of the Most, the Most promised reforms and reforms and implementation. The most important reform they have implemented is the reform of the Statute of Croatian Waters so that the best man can be favored. What should young people say after this reform that ended in college? What can they say? Stay in Croatia? No, they won't, because for them, this country with the Most and HDZ is not welcome. What to say to the young people who took up loans and invested in catering and now they're going to have to fail and the question is how they're going to repay those loans. And that's the problem, not that HDZ cheated on voters.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19937	The Honorable Representative Gordan Maras will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19938	Thank you very much, Mr. Stazic. Well, my surprise is partly caused by what I just can't believe is happening. It means from election to election and that the HDZ thus makes a promise to people and that after a few months, it breaks them. These people, I've been watching caterers and tourist workers and on TV, and on the media they're really desperate, they just couldn't believe that just a month after they voted for HDZ, HDZ pays them back in this way, some of them, of course, didn't all vote, but a lot of them. Here I was looking at a colleague of the CEH host from Rijeka who openly said people, so what you didn't say, we're going to raise you a VAT so we'd probably lose tens of thousands of votes and it's not okay, it's just not right and we have to repeat it regardless of Sanader's guarantee cards and Karamark's statements, although in HDZ, it's really possible for transformations within a very short time. So the current Prime Minister Plenkovic said he was staged three or four months ago at the HDZ Convention and Assembly, and now here's what people are saying is that it's never better. So that's possible in HDZ, and that's fine if HDZ agrees to that game. But it's not right for Croatian voters. As far as MOST and its reforms on the citizens know everything, it is also seen about this case you said, the best man case is very plastic that it is essentially not about any special party seeking reforms but which is simply asking to fit in the way HDZ has worked so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19939	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Sinisha Hajdaš Doncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19940	Thank you. My colleague Maras, I'm actually surprised, you mention the President of the Chamber of crafts who doesn't respond at all to this embarrassing increase in VAT rates. And you know why my colleague Maras isn't responding? I open a newspaper in the region and what do I read in the morning? Mr. Ranogaec candidate for the mayor of Krapina-Zagorian County? Is that clear to you now, colleague Maras?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19941	The Honorable Representative Gordan Maras will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19942	It was clear to me from the very beginning when Mr. Ranogajac, after telling you the first talks with me, I said let's relieve our craftsmen, let's reduce the burden of man giving them one five, six interviews in the paper so scrupulously fought, visiting other ministers, vice-president of the government, even trying to get to the prime minister to stay the money he wanted to collect from the craftsmen, who see very little benefit from his work. If people saw the benefits of his work as they see the benefits of Mr. Shepak's work, who is the president of the guest company in the Chamber of Commerce, they would probably want to pay that contribution. But Mr. Ranogajek immediately jumped into the Audi A6 from a registration chamber, and I don't know if I can tell you this, I'm probably allowed to have a thousand1 KC craftsman's chamber to know who the boss is. So that shows you enough mentality as to how Mr. Ranogaec works and basically how he understands that craft chamber. And that's why I'm not surprised at this at all if this is true that he has accepted the duty of being a HDZ candidate for the mayor of Zagorje. Well, that's HDZ, that's it, that's the way it works. Take immediate registration, which is a sign that the entire village sees who you are and that you are the boss, take everything your life gives you, fight for the money that's given to you in the spirit of the holy through the law, which you didn't deserve for anything and continue to function as anyone else. The same thing is in HGK, identical. We got HDZ president from Vinkovic for the president of the Chamber of Commerce who graduated from Banja Luka school, and then there was another difference in Istria, so now he's going to postgraduate school. Look, people, that's the sprawl the HDZ works on and then people are surprised why the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce have such a low rating among their entrepreneurs and craftsmen.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19943	And the last replica is the esteemed Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19944	Dear Representative Maras. I'd like to ask you one thing, I'm not going to go into what you're accusing of HDZ who cheated on someone more after the election. There should be one analysis of the system in either of these godmothers etc. However, you have hardly stepped on MOST, and yet it is the fact that they have managed to remain a tax of 5% on milk and bread. ... Okay. But that's enough I'm asking you that in the context of it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Do you think I should have left 5% of the VAT in agriculture? Why? Because most of our competitors in the environment have 5% to 9% of VAT means agriculture, so it should have been systematically... like Austria where they live eat this hilly part, is it a plain, etc. So I don't want to get on with these SDP and HDZ accounts now, but from what you said, it's getting the impression that MOST has become a quiet fraction of HDZ because after 5% of VAT means bread and milk, we don't hear them about these other things like banks, etc. But it's not a topic today. So, please, what do you think about that, should VAT have been placed for agriculture to be 5% more competitive to be involved in these reliefs and drugs not only livestock food, etc., 5% as regards VAT on agriculture? Here's another one. Let me hear your comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19945	They will answer the distinguished Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19946	Well, Mr. Lovrinović, here's what I'm going to answer, you've come to realize that thanks to them, it's not thanks to them that bread and milk stayed at 5%, it's naive if you really think so. There was a great revolution of citizens, and on this side HDZ had to react not because of the Most, but because of the public. Well, he mentioned Mr. Bully once and for all our debate in the Parliament, and when you try to show something picturesque, it contributes to the citizens' sense of what it's all about. Well, even today when I've shown what kind of riot money is going to get the richest, and how little is going to get those who have average or below average pay, that's what people see, and that's what people realize. But I can't understand a colleague from the Most who supports such a policy. So society decomposition is at this point at its strongest. We can't let that happen until things get better. So we could choose to reduce our contributions to gross wages 2% and allow entrepreneurs to increase those who have lower salaries for a significant amount, by 100 kuna or by 150 or 200 at least for something, but we decided not to, but HDZ and MOST have decided exactly the opposite to raise salaries to those who have 30, 40, 50, 50 thousand kuna. And that's what our people see and sometimes you have to show them plastic. Otherwise, this is entertainment and impression-making, it's the same thing with MOST all the time. Instead of dealing with the right things, they will now talk about how 5% of them have voted for milk and bread, and on the other hand some things that are much more important go under the radar. I wish there was a system here, if there was an honest intention of MOST not to raise HDZ but to really reform society, but obviously it doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19947	Thank you very much. Now we're gonna take a break by three hours and then we're gonna continue the individual debates. Thank you very much. It's 13,56 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19948	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] It's Agent Ivan Pernar's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19949	Thank you, Chairman. Today, the subject of the agenda is tax reform, i.e. a concrete amendment to the Law on Value Added Tax and the Tax on Profit. I'm very sorry that very few people are present by the promoter, so from the HDZ ranks, I think only five people, and I think they should all be present because otherwise they won't be able to hear arguments that might affect their decision to vote unless they function as she does to call it a voting machine where they simply appear at the moment of voting, let's say this law, and until then they're not here. What are our objections? Our main objection is to increase VAT in catering. So, the caterers are largely small people, craftsmen or type of small businesses d.o.o. which means there are no foreign owners in the essential sense. You, for example, have foreign-owned hotels in the case of hosts, all of them, as I would say, who owns cafes, bars, they're domestic residents. So all the revenue they make doesn't go out, it stays here and when the reason why they've been covering up traffic is because we're always dealing with the consequences and never with the cause. The reason the caterers covered up real traffic was because VAT was too high at 25%. And then Linic, the SDP minister, said order should be put in place over the traffic, and then Linic went to conduct the fiscalisation. Now at the moment these hosts were hiding their real traffic and Linic mentioned that all traffic would be recorded they immediately panicked. But Linic said boys, girls, don't worry the VAT will shrink. And indeed the VAT was then reduced from 25 to 13% for the caterers. And in such a frame, the caterers could so say show all the traffic. So there was no fiscalization of the problem. Indeed, it has proved to be who does business, etc. But now what's going on? Now, the VAT from 13% jumps to 25%, and otherwise what's most unexpected is that since the start of the elections, every government has been promising a VAT reduction since the start of the elections, and after the elections it regularly increases VAT. That's those stories from Sanader's guarantee card, that's the stories the SDP was telling in 2011 before the election, and I guess the HDZ in this campaign. That's one lay motive that always slips through. Instead of reducing VAT, however, we are witnessing that it is also increasing in the case of a caterer. It is indisputable that a large number of sites will fall under the renting line, which means that all these bars will fail. And when you consider the next thought. Namely, you have a situation that has moved out of Croatia in these five years or four as many as 150 thousand people already. And when those 150,000 people are gone between us, they're not even in the cafes. So obviously the people who run the cafes have fallen, so these people's purchasing power has fallen to the ones who stayed. So people spend less than they used to, and with 150 thousand people, most of whom went to cafes, they're gone today. And what they're going to say is that the proceeds of the caterer over the last few years have been systematically falling from one side, and on the other hand, expenditure has been growing. You must remember to increase the price of electricity, water and gas. It was the first measure, I suppose, that Minister Cacic then made of HNS. And those gatherings were still in effect. You have what I'd like to say, so all the impositions are rising, the purchase price of goods and services is also rising. So that input means when the caterers order some goods, that stuff is more expensive today than it was five years ago. So there's been an inflation of prices and goods and these so-called. fixed duties, i.e. almost fixed, means water, electricity, gas, directing. And in such conditions, if you take into account and that they are increasing VAT and their income has dropped as I explained and because people spend less and because they are getting smaller, it means less and less guests. I simply don't see, so I don't understand what that Predrag Raos would say: "I don't understand" what the meaning of this proposed measure is. And often if I were to point to illogicality, it means that certain measures will produce results that in their nature will be harmful to society for me, your colleagues from MOST or HDZ would say, well, Pernar, don't just talk. You speak nicely, but you don't suggest anything, their objections to me have always referred not to the content of my speech, but they would generally say that I'm not doing anything concrete, that I'm not proposing anything in particular, etc. I've just been led by that thought, and I'm going to give you a chance, and I'm going to give you a chance, and it means HDZ and MOST, and I wrote the amendment. I wrote an amendment to your proposal to amend the VAT law, and in that amendment, I suggested that it does not increase VAT to hosts. I'm curious whether the people who told me Pernar would write me the amendments yesterday, Pernar would suggest, Pernar why you're just talking, why don't you do something concrete about whether these people, the moment I gave that amendment of theirs, will they accept it or will refuse it. My big guess is, unfortunately, that my amendment will be rejected so that the thesis will fall into the water so that you accept something that is logical and good that I suggest, but here I refuse or I am unable to articulate. So my amendment will be on your desk, you'll vote on it, so the amendment is a concrete proposal, not a demagogue, not a story I don't know what it is that VAT hosts don't get up. And on this occasion, I would like to tell the caterers that they have to think politically and that they must be aware when they go to the elections that if they support parties that will essentially vote for their destruction, or to reduce or increase their expenditures and push their retail activities, it is not invaluable that they should not vote for these parties because everything ultimately decides in the elections because the result of the election depends on how much anyone has a hand, who will be in power. And ultimately, citizens need to know that the policy they support in the elections is the policy they will ultimately get. And this story with the growing VAT reminds me of the HDZ story of how they oppose the introduction of real estate taxes. So we had a situation where HDZ's verbally massacred colleagues from the SDP because they wanted to introduce a real estate tax and gave a million reasons why it shouldn't be introduced. Today, we too will eat these tax changes, and today, later, we will find ourselves in a situation that the same HDZ colleagues will demand the introduction of real estate taxes. I'll give the amendment again to try to protect the citizens from that tax, but I know they'll still vote on it. I, too, am very sorry both the citizens in general and the caterers in particular that they will fall as hostages of a policy that is being implemented, not because the HDZ gentlemen want it, not because you in MOST want it, but because Croatia is being squeezed financially, creditors are asking for their taxes, those who give credit are blackmailing and they are asking for privatisation. HEP, which two billion kunas a year, would probably win back its entire value in five years, but not the creditors are looking for it to be sold and eventually HEP will leave, VAT will rise, real estate tax will be introduced. These are all antihuman measures. I call on citizens to rebel against such policies, but not only against HDZ and the Most or the SDP because they are not those parties, these parties are just implementing the policy that is being imposed on us outside. I call on them to understand that it is not in the interest of them to manage our country outside and that the decisions made are made against their interest and contrary to their will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19950	Thank you, Agent Pernar. Mr. Maras picked up the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19951	Thank you very much. In your discussion, you said that the HDZs speak to you from the halls of Parliament, that Pernar is telling you to write something, suggest you don't just talk concretely to see it and maybe accept it, and I felt in your voice and part of the hope that a part of them might accept it. But since you haven't been well aware of how this works especially with HDZ, don't hope, so they won't accept anything and it doesn't matter to HDZ whether the proposal is good or not because there's no debate about whether the proposal is good or not but what they've suggested will accept it. But the bigger problem for me is that they told the caterers in the campaign that they were going to cut their taxes, and now they're increasing their taxes. And that's a very clear message, and that's where you sent a good message to the Croatian caterers to know who to choose next time. On this side of someone who de facto has de facto reduced their profits in the continental part of Croatia, destroyed their perspective, it should not be chosen to represent you should be chosen by those who reduce the costs that allow you to operate more easily. But continue to write suggestions because it is not bad for Croatian citizens to see this one political hypocrisy where people tell you Pernar to write to you in the halls and then they won't accept anything at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19952	Thank you, Agent Maras. Replication response, Agent Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19953	I'd just like to say one more thing our citizens don't know, which is that the amendments to the laws can't be given during the first reading. So I was constantly told by my colleagues from HDZ and MOST, so Ivana why don't you propose amendments, and I can't table an amendment because it's the first reading, only in the second reading of the law can the amendment be submitted. So the reason why I put that amendment in fact, Mr. Maras, is not because I expected them to accept it, I was actually starting to assume that they would refuse that amendment, which means that the same thing that you felt and that you know in some way I also felt, and in fact this is not a battle for their voices because they're all going to vote on some key that they have to vote on, and this is more of a struggle to show to the public especially the caterers on who's paintingly working on the main one, who's the one who wants to get their last kuna out of their pockets because when you have a bar, you have to pay the workers regardless of whether the guest has or not. You have to report these workers, they can't be black, you have to pay the rent. If you're late with my rent, the suitor will kick you out. So this is where you look at the caterers as some kind of cash-filled caste, and now let's give them the money. There is no assumption at all that a large part of these hosts are literally struggling to survive on this harsh market or in a system called capitalism in the media, but which actually leads to the destruction of all small entrepreneurs and, in fact, the dictatorship of corporations that even some of them and in bonuses pay their obligations which is contrary to common sense. But that's all about how much rabbit shortages are currently in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19954	Thank you, Agent Pernar. Representative Josip Boris reported for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19955	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So here's today all morning we've been talking about the Value Added Tax Act and the Profit Tax Act. Practically, it was perhaps the most critical law in the past month because there was a space where something could be resented by the government and what it does. However, the law or history of this law goes back 20 years and the first law on value added tax is adopted 21. Six. In 1995, he was then delayed to enter into force. 1. In 1997, then another delay went to 1. 1. In 1998. This is exactly the kind of original law that knew two steps – one general rate of 22% and one lower rate or 0% VAT rate for certain excluded products. And it took about a year until 2006 when it introduced the intermission in tourism to the hotel accommodation services of half boards and pensions so that from 2006 we have such a rate from 10% to 2013. In 2009, there is an amendment to the VAT Act and the VAT is rising from 22% to 23%. That's when the SDPs in the opposition say the harachus, that's the famous story of the harachus for one percentage point. However, in 2012, the same SDP raises the general rate from 23 to 25. The HDZ then says, "Trainer times two." The SDPs said that this is a welcome measure, that it has to put the finances back on track and that it must be in line for those countries that may not have the best rate or the smallest rate, but that there are also those countries that have the same or larger countries as Denmark, Sweden, Hungary, Iceland, Norway, etc. It was an explanation that needed something or didn't need it. To make up for something, they then dropped one part of the catering service from 25 to 10%. So, only one segment of Croatia's total tourism in the total revenues of hotel houses is around 20% of total income. Speaking of cafes, restaurants must be something more. What is important to say is that on 30.11.2012 again, as part of the amendments to the VAT Act, the SDP raised a zero VAT rate from 0 to 5% for bread, milk, books, textbooks and said it was because that is how the European Union said it and that it must be and so we all accepted it because it can't be 0%. Nobody then cried over the price of milk, books, etc., but not to forget what it looked like in their time. And of course, they did what they now resent for everyone in 2013 first the rate for catering activity from 25 to 10, and then for all tourism, means for hotel accommodation or half boards from 10 to 13 along with catering services. That was in line then they say with the Tourism Development Strategy. I don't think it was in line then, but I will return to that strategy later, because the fundamental objective of this reform was clear and clear and indicated. To the most extent, to relieve the economy, to relieve households of additional costs and to create conditions for the economy to invest, to create and to create new jobs. Another important objective clearly noted, to create a stable, sustainable and simple tax system. What's the law? The law provides for the introduction of a VAT rate of 13% on the supply of electricity, i.e. at the total price of the account, also for the waste, for the utility service, for the agricultural reproduction of seedlings, seeds and everything else that goes with it and increasing the rates from 13% to 25% for catering services. A 50% deduction for the purchase or rental of a car whose value does not exceed 400 thousand kuna is allowed and the threshold for entering the VAT system is increased from 220 to 300 thousand kuna from 1. 1. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff of the Commission in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. Who's against it? It's against that I tell the SDPs because in their time it was quite different, I say, and they put all their policies in the space of catering services, claiming that their changes were the best changes, regardless of what I say, which increased the general rate then by 2% points. And when we were increasing by 2%, there was an interesting show called "Open" and we were sitting on one current minister and one then vice-president of the government, and then they calculated how much it was 2% of VAT on the total VAT revenue in the Republic of Croatia. Then says SDP's vice president at the time, that's seven billion. Then says current one minister in the Croatian government -- not 7 but 3 billion. So we helped you not to make a mistake. Of course, that vice president was making amends all the time because everything they were counting on was always counting on more. What did that look like with electricity prices and what's the difference between you and us? Here is a thousand kunas of spent electricity in 2012 you still paid 230 kuna of VAT at the beginning of the year. When the SDP came, you paid 250 kuna or 20 kuna more VAT. They didn't have enough, they were collecting electricity by 20%. These thousand kunas become a thousand and 200 kunas in the base. You add 25% VAT to that and you come to the expense of a thousand and 500 kuna. The difference only 250 kunas more based on the purchase of electricity and VAT prices of 2% What are we offering on this base of 1200 kuna? Reduced account from 250 kuna to 144 kuna savings. So 1356 kuna with VAT will be paid. So, something we can do, 144 kuna. Someone's gonna say a little bit, someone spends it a month, someone spends it maybe all year. The same reduction goes to the utility account, i.e. in cleanliness. What happens to catering services? I think the caterers will continue to do their job like they've done since '98. the year until 2013 at the rate they had then from 22, 23 and 25%. I will continue to say work in the same sense, because I think the market will solve this problem, meaning supply and demand as well as price competitiveness. Here we come to similar stories that have already been heard in Croatia. Let's say at any price purchase, for example, gas as the price was determined by the government based on various calculations, so as soon as the gas went up a little bit, then we'd all say now we're going to pick up our prices. As soon as it fell, it remained on the same table until the market had now resolved and I really don't think anyone is complaining about the price of gasoline that at the time of the SDP even at one point was 11 kuna regular euros. Now I don't know nine kunas as much. And more or less, it's out. As far as the strategy itself is concerned, I think it is necessary to read first in order to know why we are even talking about it the way we talk. In order to ensure that VAT is indeed not fatal in the strategy itself, colleagues from the SDP will have to read it whole to find a single sentence mentioning 10% of VAT rates because it writes only in one single sentence. There are almost a hundred pages of strategy, please read it. What's the big deal? There is also an action plan in this strategy. Action plans do not specify changes to the VAT law as something that brings competitiveness to Croatian tourism. Read the action plans, which laws need to be amended, in which sector they are in, and you will realize that there are no finances here except in point 6 on page 67, where it says to reduce i.e. conduct a proactive fiscal policy. That's all it says in the action plan in terms of the Ministry of Finance. And what does it say about the competitiveness of Croatian tourism? That we are among 30 in the world as the most competitive tourism. Where we're the most competitive I've spoken to today. So in the number of hotel rooms, financial institutions, ATMs, car rentals in fourth place. In terms of tourism, 20th place. The availability of cultural attractions in 30th place. Quality health care at 32nd place and personal security at 33rd place. According to the price competitiveness indicator, one sign of a sentence writes. I beg you to hear us from the other side. It says the most competitive we're in the Mediterranean. It's from the strategy that you proposed, we adopted it by consensus in this House, and now I should be defusing myself or you, and we can reopen that strategy and find that part. It tells you to be competitive. Croatian tourism page 14 [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Here's where I'm gonna end up, so we can move on. [[The President's incursion: time. Please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19956	Thank you. Representative Ivan Klarin reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19957	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague, Boric, you have mentioned as many as 17 times in this 10-minute SDP debate, so I am very interested in who is in power of the SDP, HDZ, I do not know. 17 times I counted, 17 times you mentioned SDP, first fact. Two, if it wasn't for the MOST, we'd be paying for food and medicine at 13%. Therefore, you in HDZ sits one. That's a different fact for you. Your third fact is that GDP has increased 2.9% today and that you are introducing the highest VAT rate in catering in Europe since Greece. Next time, sit down one. What you have done today and are trying to wash yourself and to mention 17 times to another party, that in no sentence other than the parts of the sentence you mention the positive shifts of this reform it tells me enough, and probably to the Croatian public who listens to us that this is also a catastrophic tax reform for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19958	Reply to the replica, MP Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19959	Thank you very much. I worked at school for 10 years. I always put such students in the first bench because they never heard well or always pretended to hear anything, didn't know, or would answer wrong. I mentioned the SDP purely to know where our starting positions are and I mentioned the document made by the Government of Zoran Milanovic where we discussed this here, we voted in 2013 on this document. He was represented by Minister Lorencin after Ostojić was removed, I spoke on behalf of the club and I know what I was saying and I know what it says. And I cannot accept that the competitiveness of Croatian tourism is being reduced to VAT. Because that document, that competitiveness doesn't signify VAT. So I've given you what makes Croatia's tourism competitive and what it says and where we're good and where we're bad. And it says we're bad at human potential because we have problems in vocational schools. It says we're uncompetitive in a legitimate environment because we've often changed laws. That's what it says. And it says where we're competitive and I read it to you. But all you want to hear is what suits you. I claim to you by respecting logic, that this caterer with 25% VAT and 22 and 23 jobs since '98. until 2013, that he had operated for 3 years at the VAT rate from, inter alia, 13 or 10%. And that today he's going to do business again with a 25% rate and he's going to do what he's done so far. And that the market will address the issue of supply and demand. Will they raise prices? Maybe he will. Why didn't they drop the prices when they needed to? I don't know. That's their excuse and I can say whatever they want. But if you were competitive with 13% at the same price and you didn't bring it down, now you're gonna leave it on the same, on a bigger VAT. It means there's a place where you can act. If you don't understand, then I give you everything you've done and how much you've burdened the Croatian citizens. We've decided to fuck the bills, and you're against it. All right.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19960	Thank you, counsel. The representative who reported for the replica Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19961	Thank you very much. Mr. Boric, here's your answer to Mr. Clarina's replica. You basically showed me how wise my wife was when she told me you had to meet your children's teacher. So it's very important to meet your children's teacher because that person is raising your child just as you are raising him. And now I see basically that it's very important and you've shown me how important it is to your replicas. I wouldn't want my child to listen to his teacher for years. The other thing I didn't hear what you said, Bull. [[Intruder President: Please nice.]] The other thing is, you said a whole series of things that don't actually stand. [[I'd like to ask the MPs.]] So not only did you mention the SDPs 17 times but you went even into nebuloses, he says, "As the SDP was at the power of the price of gasoline was 11 kuna." Watch out! I mean, what does that have to do with SDP? Now, he says, nine kunas. So he goes on to say, "I think the caterers will continue to do their job despite the 25% rate." Come on, no, what is it? So, I thought tomorrow everyone would close down the joints if the 25% rate was adopted. So, Mr. Boric thinks he'll keep doing his job. Unbelievable, no. So he goes on to say, "We are the most competitive in the Mediterranean, we adopted it unanimously here." Well, what's the dispute here if that's the case? Why are we raising 12% to be uncompetitive? Then he starts talking about VAT. So please don't talk about VAT in HDZ. Three times before the election, you said you'd cut the VAT rate. You haven't done it once. So when HDZ starts talking about VAT, you know nothing happens. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you very much. [[Adversity President: Representative Maras, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19962	Before we go any further, I must warn you that there was a very inappropriate way in which you addressed the MP and I would ask you to refrain from such comments in the future. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19963	Thank you, Mr. President. Col. Maras injured the Rules of Procedure in his first part of the debate because he did not talk about the subject, Article 238, because he did not talk about the subject under discussion. It's a matter of tax reform, it's not a curriculative reform, so here's a clean use, to warn the MPs when they're off topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19964	Thank you. Representative Bulj, I warned Representative Maras. Reply to the replica, MP Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19965	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, I'm not going down to your level. In Croatia there are about 50,000 people working in Croatian schools, teaching our children. Insulting me, you probably tried to insult all of them. But it's your right as well as the rights of others, and I don't know, the media and any other to talk about these people that way. I've calculated here, shown arguments, you've tried to insult, why maybe there's no point in discussing further. Perhaps it is best to apply that famous saying from your first internal campaign when talking about counterpart Maras of his party colleagues, they say, "Hear, ignore and eskicipate."
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19966	Don't force me to give warnings, and then harsher punishments. I think we can continue in a civilised debate. A representative of Nikola Grmoya called in a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19967	Your Honor. I think that in this debate here, in individual terms, I should talk about the positive aspects of this tax reform that are many. Of course, there will always be those who will be damaged. This is a comprehensive package. The fact is that, through profit tax and income tax, there is a huge discharge that I hope will start investment and new employment. As far as VAT is concerned, it is good that we have come by common agreement that those who offer with accommodation of food and drink services will remain lower VATs, which will not endanger investment in tourism, most importantly. As regards hospitality, of course, we would all like this VAT to be as low as possible, but we should take into account, of course, the desire, and the intention and goal of Minister Marić to keep the budget sustainable, so that there is no big budget gap because there has been a major tax discharge. And as far as these figures are concerned, which you stated that one vice president of the government on the show means, double the amount, it's no wonder that this man was a machine for optimism. He always liked to blow up numbers. The only thing that surprises me is the fact that after that gaffe in the "Open" show never appeared in it again. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19968	I'd like to thank my representative, Grumoja. Reply to the replica, MP Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19969	Thank you very much. A fellow Grmoi, but we helped them on the show because they calculated themselves that they had burdened Croatian citizens by 7 additional billion. Then Mr. Coric warned him at the time that it was not so much, but only 3 billion more with 2% more of the basic VAT rates. And today I'm saying, here we're hearing that this law isn't right since here, one of the rates is up by 12%. When we enter the business of hotel companies carrying Croatian tourism, let's say on small tenants who have about 400 thousand beds, this law does not leave any effect on them. When we look at those other 400 thousand, it is organized institutional accommodation – hotels, camps and all other types of accommodation. They have a 13% rate they've had so far. They don't change anything. What's changing them? Hostage services. When we enter the incomes of these houses, 75% of the income of these houses is on the part of the accommodation of those total revenues. So that's where they all stay the same and they're as competitive as they've been before. What's changing them? Those 25% catering services. Why am I criticizing her? Because they were the basic 10% rate that was on the accommodation services together with these 25% others in terms of catering services and then they were 100% up by 3 percentage points from 10 to 13 and there was a difficulty in part of the income, i.e. not competitiveness in the part of the accommodation, but they do not want to admit it. And then they went against the tourism strategy we adopted here. They say we're going to do it today who did it. In the fifth month, we adopted a strategy, and in the tenth month they changed the law that comes into play in 2014 and raise VAT from 10% to 13% for catering services. You need to be honest and say that's how it's done.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19970	Thank you, Representative Boric. Representative Branimir Bunjac reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19971	Thank you, Chairman. Col. Boric, you have just now stated in your debate that there is some difference between you and the SDP in electricity prices, so you have elaborated that it is essentially a difference of 140 kuna per year in price for a single household. If that's the difference, I have to tell you that there's basically no difference between you and the SDP, it's some kind of minimal change that doesn't bring any significant benefits to citizens. If you were as socially sensitive as your colleagues from the SDP when they were in power, then you would stop the practice of shutting down power to socially endangered families, terrorizing the poor, the elderly, the sick and the children who are constitutionally and illegally destroying the property that they paid for themselves and leaving people to sit in total darkness as in the Middle Ages without any opportunity to carry out their normal day-to-day activities. If you are already as socially sensitive as you claim about electricity, please also answer my question, why does the Government reduce participation in the cost of dwellings for persons with reduced property status or those who live on a minimum fee guaranteed and for the amount of 200 kuna that these same families receive as a electricity voucher? So we see that there are five billion kunas in the budget to increase expenditures, we see that there are salaries for parliamentary deputies and ministers, we see that there are salaries for management and for rich people, but there are no vouchers for citizens, so there's got to be another social case to somehow justify it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19972	Thank you. Reply to the replica, MP Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19973	Thank you very much. Comrade Bunjac, I am glad that you are in the position of the SDP to oppose the reduction of total electricity bills. Maybe it's small for you, there's a lot of households that pay a thousand kuna a month, so these 144 kunas certainly mean 12 things. There may be fewer who may be the total annual amount they pay in apartments, etc., but when you add utility bills when we talk about cleanliness, you will realize that you are still doing something that goes counter to what you stand for. And you've been interpreting here all along and for a month and a half that the people in charge are in charge, and the poor aren't rich, and we need to help the poor right now. And now that we're doing it, you're against it. I think you're on your way to accomplish what I told you the other day that only two bricks will remain from that Living Wall, and I can see that's really happening in that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19974	Thank you, Representative Boric. Representative Franjo Lucic answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19975	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Boric, I sign your debate because it has indeed been in the context of extremely good changes in the tax system which, by now, I can say freely, in this context and in this volume has not been seen but, above all, in a positive sense. We're witnesses, and I can't miss it because I was saying that in my individual debate a few days ago that exactly the SDP government that was four years ago was recorded as the government that made so much of the biggest mess in the tax system by changing the laws and bringing into uncertainty all those potential investors in the Republic of Croatia. And these very tax changes that are now current, which have also been the biggest tax changes since the 1990s, guarantee both the sustainability and future of the Croatian economy. The best indicators are that the public debt has been reduced, the deficit has been reduced, that GDP growth that has been announced today is also in the upward path. And I'll just say a few words about your government in the last four years. You had a sign of GDP growth in all years except the last quarter of the fourth year. Well, gentlemen, do you talk about it any more, and today you're against these tax reforms. And a few words only about hospitality. Slavons also worked when VAT was 10 and 12 and I don't know what 13% was on the Adriatic, and... seems to work in the future because they have no perspective in Slavonia And tax should now be reduced to agricultural products, but it certainly takes time to speak much more about it. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19976	Thank you, Agent Lucic. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19977	Thank you. My colleague Lucic, the SDP doesn't like it when we remind them of what they were doing, but I do it persistently and often because it's numbers and it can't be hidden, it's recorded and we have to repeat by not knowing which times. They raised the VAT rate from zero to 5% for bread, for milk, for books, for textbooks, for medicines and everything else that goes with it. They did it in 2013. They reduced the rate from 25 to 10 for catering services only, so they all raised 3% of points to hotels, and accommodation and catering services. They raised the VAT from 23% to 25%. That's their effect in four years of their term of office. The load at the annual level, you saw how they count themselves, they said 7, we told them at least 3 about the general rate part, and there was probably a lot of impact on all of these other steps. And that's why they're back where they are in the opposition today because they're untrustworthy and they don't know how to read the documents they brought themselves, and that's the strategy for developing Croatian tourism where the VAT rate itself is mentioned in one single sentence and where it's not mentioned at all in terms of the competitiveness of Croatian tourism, but all other important factors that just make tourism competitive, and that's all, just not the VAT story. And they have to understand that. And it's not nice, I'm saying, that they say the lies in this home because there's a document, and there are pages, and there's one chapter that says the competitiveness of Croatian tourism, and what it says in one sentence is just, the SDP wrote, according to the indicator of price competitiveness, we're the most competitive in the Mediterranean. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19978	Thank you, Representative Boric. Representative Miro Bulj has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19979	Thank you very much. Dear Boric, you have listed some of the facts of this tax reform, such as that it will be or will remain the same prices on basic life supplies that led us to debates before tax reform itself every day even baskets with life supplies were brought. But the fact is that this tax reform also has cheaper electricity, certain municipal services, and I'm glad that he noticed that on behalf of the Club he also spoke to a colleague named Lalovec where he had a positive attitude towards this reform. Of course we have agriculture here, and we also have cheaping. The smaller VATs towards the retromaterial, but the fact is that the impact is essentially on the import lobby. However, the fact that in the last four, five years we have 64,000 dairy producers, today we have 4000 800, and 5 billion kuna is invested. This should perhaps be better explained by former Minister Jakovina, he is the most professional there. The fact is that we have 100,000 fewer people in Slavonia because of the funds that the EU funds were supposed to be allocated to our OPGs, and they were allocated to other people who had fictitiously opened the OPGs. And surely these tax reforms would have had an even greater effect on agriculture if they hadn't gone into the wrong pocket these funds during Mr. Jakovina's focus, instead of small OPGs are directed at tycoons. So much more effective that the previous authorities did not do what they did and therefore I believe that tax reforms have some good effects, but in time it is necessary to see that the situation and the fact that a billion and a half kuna due to the untaxable part of the salary from 2 and 600 to 3800 goes into the pockets of our citizens who will still be spent Thank you very much. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19980	Representative Boric responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19981	Thank you very much. Comrade Bulj, we have to repeat because I say, everything that says in the law he has numbers and can be calculated and that's why I repeat what it looked like only on electricity bills. They offered us 270 kuna collection of thousands of kuna electricity as a result of their policy, energy policy or care for Croatian citizens, and we offer a reduction. VAT payments and savings on the same account or spending of a thousand I say kuna for 144 kuna and can be calculated using certain parameters and these rates. And they say, we're against it, we're against reduction and we insist on being against it. And what do we tell them? Be against it. We will continue and we believe that this law we are discussing is now said in a smaller group, but the reform is complete and will certainly give positive results. And that's where they most, I say, are afraid because all their reforms were going with the results down, i.e. negative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19982	Thank you, Representative Boric. Representative Nenad Stazic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19983	You are telling your colleague, Boris, that on page 14 of the Tourism Development Strategy, we are the most competitive in the Mediterranean. Oh, yeah. The only thing I don't understand is why HDZ cares about us now stop being the most competitive in the Mediterranean. You're saying that the caterers are completely indifferent to what VAT is and that they will work equally with 13% and 25%. But what you're saying is that a thousand hosts in Split left the rally when it was there... Here's a report from "Free Dalmatia" Scandal at Hotel Love in Split "The hosts boycotted Capelli's assistant. [[You don't understand.]] When he came to the pay phone, a thousand of them left the hall with whistles. The hosts expected answers from the resorient minister about the announced VAT increase from the current 13% to 25% since January next year against which the hosts have been insecure for a month explaining how this will make their service uncompetitive on the international market." I repeat, listen to me, Boric – that this will make their service uncompetitive on the international market – so this does not tell you now Stazic and Maras and SDP in the Parliament. That's what a thousand caterers and whistles say in Split in Hotel Lav. So don't rephrase it, answer the line to me, then replicate it to them. A thousand of them whistled you, and that's all we're saying here is that a thousand representatives of the caterer whistles your decision, and you're praising her here as genius.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19984	Thank you, Agent Stazic. Reply to the replica, MP Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19985	Thank you very much. My colleague Stazić and you, like me, know all the models or opportunities that democracy provides. Right? You were, say, one government that received one referendum every week, and that was the form of a civil rebellion against some of your activities. That's right for the caterers. They have every right to express their dissatisfaction, to say what they think, to propose their own solutions, and no one can forbid them. That which they whistled, and let them whistle, which I would forbid for them. Well, you haven't just gotten a round of applause in the past four years. So you whistled behind every canton. So, you've been played by the people in the election twice a year if we can pass it on. Well, not for being good and perfect, but for being bad. And this fellow who left said he was in bad company. And that he's come to his senses now and now. But we claim, and that shows the figures, that we are the most competitive in the Mediterranean, and that's what the minister said in his opening speech. He told them at a meeting that we had here at a thematic session, that we were in the competition index at the level of Portugal, which together has one of those indices 100, 74. That we have a space of 30 index points to get to the level of the European Union average. And there are those that are over 100. Well, it means there's space. But you know as well as I do when you fly here to a country of the European Union or a hotel, so you know there's something more expensive than here. And food, and drink and everything. And let's not get into how prices are going to be formed. Prices form supply, demand and market. That's what we fought for. How will they form after raising this inter-step? Well, I guess that'll be decided by every caterer for himself. Well, we're not in socialism that we all have the same price. Well, that would mean everyone had to lower their prices when she fell in the middle of it. However, it may not have been that way. I support them in every part of them where they feel democratic should express their dissatisfaction and dissatisfaction. And no one should blame them for that. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19986	Thank you. Before we go to the next individual debate I'd really like to ask the MPs, I don't want to end your freedom of speech and the possibility of replicating, but I don't think it really makes any sense for the replicas within the same club unless you've been able to agree within your own club. The next representative to report for individual participation in the debate is Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19987	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Well, hello to the secretary of state, I will especially welcome him because he is with us for the first time, and probably this topic is a good introduction to this future time where he will work, and in view of this, we've known each other for a number of years, so here's what I'm saying, in fact, is, in some way, a message that I've been conveying, and that's the common desire of both the Ministry of Finance and me as a former economy minister, to help the economy, to help entrepreneurs. And this reform, I also welcomed it then, that there are really a whole series of positive things that can contribute to the development of entrepreneurship and that we will improve especially in one general picture. I hope that these expectations of the Ministry of Finance and the entire government will come true. At that time, and I would now return to the topic, since I come from an assisted area, I have appealed to both the minister and the associates, to consider once again abolishing profit tax benefits, but here I will use a little and abuse it, is not a topic today, but it also refers to income tax from independent activity. When we look at the reason why I responded, I spoke primarily because I wanted to and, to put it that way, the state authorities also, both regional and local authorities, to help our entrepreneurs in these areas. We're not talking about 264 cities and municipalities where entrepreneurs have difficulty. It is not only that we have areas that have difficulties in themselves but also have difficulties in the economy. And it's our desire to help them. And we help them through various visions and support that we provide from local level, regionally, also national. But what's going on? Neither the funds are sufficient to help them fully nor are they qualified to benefit from certain funds available and many of them remain without even the support of small value support that can be found within one period. And then what do they have left? They actually have that tax relief that they can use, and in some ways that's how we help them in these areas to actually keep their business. And what we do, since I was also the head of local self-government, every single measure that we can imagine is a competitive advantage for us, we use it to have a business zone, we use it to free them from communal contributions. We say here, you have a relief with us, and that's why it was exactly my intensity when I turned and asked to see again this whole package worth 40 million kuna, to consider again in your projections to allow these areas of the first and second groups most threatened to be helped. Here, I appreciate the ministry's respect for the part about the City of Vukovar, where the city of Vukovar has been given back a lot of release, means the full release of profits. But I'm saying, I have to simply because I come from a municipality adjacent to the City of Vukovar, I have to protest, I have to simply protect myself for the sake of a provision that I believe is probably unknown to the real situation there, which is that the reliefs for the City of Vukovar are recognised, but in a way that workers who are employed at least 50% must come from the area of the City of Vukovar or the assisted area of the first group. I'd just point out that neighbouring municipalities, including mine, we're all meaning all assisted areas of the second group. I'm just trying to paint what's going on. It happens that a worker from a neighbouring municipality where an undeveloped economy, where there are not enough jobs, is looking for a job in the City of Vukovar. In this way, if he will not be acceptable to the employer, since he could lose his relief to which the City of Vukovar is entitled, he will avoid hiring people from neighbouring areas. And I mean, on the one hand, come as a resident, as the leader I was there, we lost our right to relief. But on the other hand, how do I explain to my workers who live there that simply in future time will have difficulty getting a job in the City of Vukovar. With entrepreneurs of course who want for themselves well, but will turn out to be neighboring municipalities of the collateral sacrifice. And I would just point out that the town of Vukovar suffered, a lot of people there died during this war, but it was also not only defended by the citizens of the city of Vukovar, there was a whole series of people from neighbouring municipalities, there was also from the Tompoevci municipality, where I was from, it was from the Municipality of Bogdanovci, and the Municipality of Bogdanovci too, and the place itself was very much lost. And for that I appeal once again here to the ministers to respect what I'm saying, I'm saying this from the heart and I really want to be able to come back as a representative there and that I can tell the people here we really figured out what the difficulty is and we did it with it. I would if you could consider, at least that detail, that the assisted area around the city of Vukovar group one is gone. The nearest is Gunja or those parts along the Sava, Markusica but means neighbouring municipalities where most people are employed in the town of Vukovar, none of them are assisted areas of the first group, so consider it one more time, so here, I hope you will also talk to the government about it because not only am I talking about it, but also with colleagues who are the leaders of local self-government, who are also from HDZ. And this is the attitude we share, I'm actually trying to be a spokesman for the whole area and help all of us stay there. Because in the event that this change is not made, every entrepreneur first, what remains will want to start his business in Vukovar because he is provided with this relief. Any worker seeking employment in the town of Vukovar will transfer his residence to be competitive in the labour market and will move to Vukovar. And then what did we do? I would just say one illogical thing that we had in the past when we helped young families with material for building housing, so we said what you can do in the area of special state care and you'll get that privilege. People thought rationally in a way that if I already got the material, I could buy construction land and then go to build in the town of Vukovar or I don't know in the village of Mirkovci which is next to Vinkovci where the value of this property will be greater. And it happened that from one good intention we moved the areas where they usually lived, so... say you're building in the place where you come from and I'm afraid that this measure could just influence and further depopulate the areas that are based on the city of Vukovar and the city itself without the strong environment that is developing will definitely not be able to survive in a long time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it is not only the area of the city of Vukovar, it is likely that these difficulties will also be felt by entrepreneurs. I when I saw it, so we had all set up 779 of economic operators that used to mean 2015 for that relief. I think it's a small number of subjects and I think it's a measure that helps them, that's that small-value support. And if you can in your projections, once again I urge you to try to find a model of how to keep those funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19988	Thank you, Agent Panenic. The first representative to report for the replica is Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19989	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Kolega Panenić, I fully support your demands for both Tompojevci and Vukovar and Soljan and Drenovci, Babina Greda, Bosniaks and all municipalities in Slavonia and Baranja, as well as in Zagorje and Podravina, which are in difficulty must find ways to help. However, if you are not already yours because it is no place for the Parliament to either love the minister or tell him to reconsider, but there is a way to prepare legal procedures for this, ahead of the government's meetings with his fellow ministers to be resolved. If it is not already settled there, I suggest you write the amendment, we still arrive and we will all support you from the opposition if you can't solve such matters through the position of the government for undeveloped areas in the Republic of Croatia. Put in an amendment, we'll all support you. And I would also like to mention the problem of agriculture, we welcome the natural reduction of VAT on seeds, fertilisers, plant protection. Well, here's what you've added to the livestock food because we know how difficult the situation is in livestock farming. But here's because of Doda Mate, whose cow is sick, three, four times the vet came where the cost of treatment comes and up to three, four thousand kunas are asking you to support our amendment, to form veterinary medicines and services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19990	Reply to the replica, MP Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19991	Here's a thank you for this support, precisely this intensity. I just hope that this kind of support will also be in this whole package of laws because it's certain that we can't say that these laws are completely disrupting the state of the economy when we look at it, but they're about to improve. I'm saying, perhaps these tiny opportunities we now have during this debate, which the ministry will also respect when it looks at everything together. Suggest, and I would still like to be here integrated especially from this position where... We're also supporting the government and here's the minister to propose these changes himself, so it's not politics, because I'm talking about some real needs that occur on the ground. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So when it's heard then everyone can understand and hopefully here's that we won't have to make an amendment from this position that I have and that we're actually going to agree on these things that are a minimum need for some entrepreneurs that we see here and we know, who are complaining, who are giving us their wishes. I say and for agricultural producers we agree that, small agricultural producers will benefit from these measures. What we would like is growth, and hopefully in the future VAT which all the big ones are bigger in the VAT system that they will also have additional reliefs that will help them if they can't use VAT relief so that they can use someone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19992	Thank you, Agent Panenic. Representative Ana-Marie Petin reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19993	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here is my colleague Panenic, and you mentioned the units of local and regional self-government that they have a great desire to help entrepreneurs, but unfortunately a large number of local self-government units, and the county has no fiscal ability to help its entrepreneurs, because there are still a lot of obligations that our craftsmen have to pay, which we have not touched with this tax reform, and as I have pointed out in my presentation today's entrepreneurs are nothing but money collectors for the state who then reroute to the state and the money they collect in the meantime comes to them with a series of inspections, a series of controls, and just like that they collect the same money and full state budgets, and in all these transactions they take huge, huge funds from paying fees, on payments, on each card transaction. And simply because you do not think that the state should still focus its reform towards facilitating entrepreneurs and craftsmen, as well as in agriculture, it should be much more serious to turn the VAT down to both the food output and the agricultural product. Because that would actually really help agriculture and agricultural producers and the village itself and rural space.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19994	Thank you, Agent Petin. Reply to the replica, MP Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19995	Thank you. I have to say I can't agree, I can't agree on maybe even my habitat. I was a local leader and what actually the experience that I had then gained here and during this short term as a minister to change that some local self-government leaders also view as their task and to deal with building only infrastructure and social affairs. And what's going on? There's little knowledge about the economy, there's little idea of how to help the economy, and unfortunately, when we look at local and regional budgets, then there's also a small budget to be provided to help. I understand that these limits of support for small values that limit us, but if we shake local budgets speaking and county budgets, we see how much that means for those economic operators that we wouldn't even be near that border in their area. So, until the mentality changes that it is actually the long-term success of any local self-government leader to have a business zone as an infrastructure, to provide its entrepreneurs with the easiest possible conditions of business, to encourage their business, and then maybe the road will be created somewhere to solve a municipal problem, but if we don't solve especially in assisted areas of such things, we'll get into a situation as we do in East Germany, as we have here and in southern Spain where I was the perfect infrastructure, perfectly lit places, organized all together, we don't have people, we just don't have an economy. And so, I think the intensity must be to change that form that accesses that it's not the opening of one road or that we don't have someone such an object something that's an advantage in getting an election. So here come the local elections and I already know that there's going to be a whole series of such infrastructures and we haven't really solved what's the basic problem, which is the economy, the development, the number of entrepreneurs, the number of jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19996	Thank you, Agent Panenic. Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19997	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Panenić, I think you have touched a very important topic, which is unfortunately our rural environments, especially in Slavonia, which are not in great condition. You mentioned your community and I know what you're talking about because I was in Berk, Grabov, Tompoevs, mostly in the Chakovci. I know what it looks like. But unfortunately to tell you how many regions there are in our region of such places that suffer, I could probably list you by tomorrow. And that's why I would take the opportunity to mention Baranja, let's say, the same very demographically and economically devastated region that in the last me would dare say ten years began to raise to hospitality. And what we're witnessing right now, what this government is doing right now is raising VAT on these caterers. I also agree with you that you should take care of these environments, but you know as the old folk says, "Don't give a man a fish but teach him how to fish then he'll know how to handle himself." I'm sorry to say that this government didn't recognize the initiatives I was talking about and even when I was presenting the government, which are targeted tax reliefs for certain regions and to help our regions develop economically. Here I said for example for Slavonia because in Osijek we already have a large engine and generator of IT development Osijek software city, why don't we consider IT industry and give them special tax reliefs right from Slavonia to bring this industry to Slavonia, including in your municipality, and to my city, etc. Why not aimly stimulate certain regions to develop on certain directions. We need more strategic thinking and thinking and tax reform, as well as in every other one that will come to help the regions, and just the environments you're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19998	Reply to the replica, MP Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u19999	Of course I think this is where we can talk about how we want to help our economies. Looking through this tax reform we always look through taxes as such because they're our simplest, because they're... related to everything so then we can say we haven't left anyone out, we help almost everyone. What Mr. Hajdukovic and you emphasized has certainly an industry where, I think, looking as a branch of economy that we could encourage and which we could point towards such rural areas. We could have, if we were talking about IT and here's Osijek as such and recognized to make it one... that will spread, where people will have education at the local level saying I don't know about Osijek, Vukovar, Vinkovci and other places where such opportunities exist. To come there, to gather but then there are other packages, so it's not just the tax that's there, but we also have to have the incentive for packages to be made by such industries. But we need to understand that times change. If we can't secure in traditional industries, if we can't provide enough jobs in agriculture, if we can't in the low-paid labour industries provide development where GDP growth is 3% will not help us there, it will help us watch Croatia's integrity but will not help some of these areas. Then it means that we have to be specialists, and here we are, and you and I, who come there from Slavonia, and all of us who are in this area are fighting to know what it is for our Slavonia, that in this project of Slavonia, which announces that they are exactly the kind of specialist measures that will help these industries. And I would certainly be expressing my support that our digital economy, in fact, informers who are making successful progress in Osijek, stay there and don't have to go to other parts and that then we can all eat at Karanc. Then I believe a 25% tax won't be a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20000	Thank you, Agent Panenic. Representative Milanka Opačić reported for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20001	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary is gone, but he's out a little bit, colleagues and fellow MPs. So, I'm going to talk to the VAT Act about only one problem, and that's getting into the nanny's actually paying VAT. In fact, the nannies were an integral part of the national family policy adopted by this House, which, from one mandate, extended to the mandate of the other government and two things that we made out of that national family policy made a warm meal for all children in schools and nannies who were not in any way legal until that moment. So the nannies were one gray zone, the activity of a large number of women who kept children in their own homes, parents paid. However, none of this was legal. So there was one gray zone in which we didn't have a chance to say maybe full child safety, and on the other hand we didn't have any payment, so neither the compensation nor the child-saving person nor the state. Then we sat down with the Chamber of crafts, and we decided with them to do it anyway because it was the cheapest solution with the education system we found some model across open schools, that still women who would be nannies and decided to look after children, to pass a certain program in which they would get basic information about how and what to treat children. And therefore, there is a certain legislative framework for the first time for this type of activity. Many local self-government units are very poor in their budgets. They have no money to study, no money to build kindergartens, and even less money to maintain a very expensive drive like kindergarten. And they have problems, so with the care of the children, those parents who work. At the moment in Croatia, 46 women are registered in the craftsmen's register, which means babysitting. According to my information, about a hundred women are in the education process, so they're also asking permission to do the nanny's job. On the one hand, you have a reduction and a complete neutralization of the gray economy. On the other hand, you have services that are more flexible for parents than kindergartens and you have the self-employment of women. So the nannies really did bring a lot of good as a project. Nannys are flexible and it's very important, so this flexibility because there are no more jobs from half nine to half five and it's very difficult. Anyone who's a parent, especially single parents know that it's not easy to run from work at 4 o'clock in order to get into kindergarten at half-five, so you get stuck in a crowd, then you call the aunt on duty, please leave me a little more, not to talk about some parts of Croatia where there are industries that work on the second shift. For example in Vrbovac, PIK Vrbovac, who works in the second shift there is one nanny who guards twelve children in the second shift. So for those parents who work second shifts, you don't have any in Croatia who works on the second shift and who can watch the kids on the second shift. The damage to the budget or let's say the loss to the budget is actually none, none because they're terribly small. In the VAT system and after these raises to 300 thousand kuna, there will be only a few nannies left with only 12 children, so those who went to hire another nanny, so they have 12 children. And the instructions they receive from the IRS spend money somewhere, invest money somewhere, so you'll be under 300 thousand kuna, and it's not exactly a solution because it's very difficult every year in such places where they keep children to buy constantly new toys, constantly to paint space. So it's not some big resource they have. So I can't even invest in that way money to get them into some sort of depreciation, so they can get their money off so they don't get in, so they're under these 300 thousand kunas. When you look at the VAT Act, you have a lot of those who are relieved. You have, for example, I don't know private education, your kindergartens don't have VAT, you have a lot to touch children, care and everyone is free of VAT. I really don't see any reason why even the babysitters shouldn't be free of VAT. Once again, there is no big impact on the budget, or rather, it is something that will not be felt at all, these are minor figures and a good message will be made to women who have gone into entrepreneurship, that is, some kind of own entrepreneurship that takes care of children. We keep talking about demographic politics here, about needing more kids. But my people, services and support to parents that they can meet their work obligations and family obligations are just that you have a place to leave a child at the moment you work. Once again, small units that don't have enough money finally went to co-finance the nannies because it's much cheaper for them and more feasible for them, so than to build kindergartens. Gardens are all science fiction for them and they can't and they'll never have any money for it. So, please, I managed to write the amendment whether it was procedurally okay or not. I hope you'll consider it because I had no other choice. So, please consider that the nannies are not really involved in paying the VAT. It's no big damage to the budget, so you won't lose any money, you won't make a budget hole, and we'll contribute to what we all stand for, which is that parents have a service. It took a long time for local self-government units to accept even the babysitters, while they began to co-finance them, while they began to give little incentives. Let's not stop this now, because the nanny unfortunately, one part of them, or they'll have to raise the price which is very bad for parents or simply give up that kind of work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20002	Thank you, Representative Opacic. Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20003	Thank you very much. Your colleagues well said that here you have participated in the fact that the babysitters are something good, which is about population policy mainly because children's kindergartens cannot accept all children and, of course, children's kindergartens are limited while the nanny can really do the job all day long and of course it should be supported and that the nanny needs to be able to do it anyway whether it's about the children regardless of the conditions they need to reach as a nanny or childcare facility there is some difference, but it's about our children. And it's certainly very important for population policy, and as you said, we already have 40 OPGs in the Republic of Croatia and a number of women who are educated to become nannies. But there was one problem here, I talked to the nannies personally, with the Ministry of Tax and indeed this amendment was simply to write, put the decimal and write the nanny behind it. However, you are aware, I do not know how much you have spoken and how much it is true, but the Ministry of Tax Administration has said that VAT at the OPGs are registered as OPG but the EU directive says that there must be no exceptions to VAT, that some are simply illogical but they are OPG, locksmith, carpenter and child-sitters, illogically. In my view, there should be an urgent search for another way of registering the nanny because they can simply belong to the OPG, and if this is a fact, as far as I'm concerned, I support this amendment of the arms right now, but I don't know what the EU directive is about the OPG itself in how it works. And it's unthinkable for me when you found out why, through the O.P.G., I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, they're registered as craftsmen, and by law, it's impossible for children to be your kindergarten, the institution of that craft and simply the VAT can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20004	Thank you, Agent Buljo. A response to the replica of MP Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20005	Yeah, so it's about them being craftsmen. And why did we go to that? Because it was the cheapest, so there's no other way in our system that we went to the company or to anything else, it would be much more expensive for them and parents, so the craft was the cheapest and simplest because there's not much bookkeeping, there's not much paperwork. However, you here have some services that provide certain or legal persons or some others involved in education, so I think that with a little effort you can and the nannies here and what they do declare to be a particular service that is related to the childcare system because if you already have some services so defined here, I think that you might then be able to get through that nanny. It may not even be necessary to change the law, but it might be important to give a guide in front of the IRS because so far we have had different interpretations. One Tax Administration one, another Tax Administration another, perhaps this could be bridged by the most ordinary interpretation of the Tax Administration without touching the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20006	Thank you, Representative Opacic. Now we move on to the next individual participation in the debate. Representative Ivan Vilibor Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20007	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs. In my debate, I will refer to what is said in the discussion on behalf of the club, specifically to the amendments and to the final proposal of the Value Added Tax Act, Articles 11a, 11b and 11c, where it is said that some valuable coupons will be introduced, and they will, let's say, become legal, not only legal, but they will be coerced there simply leads to the coercion that the one to whom the money should be given that they will have to take the coupon, one such practice is introduced. I will read at the beginning of this debate the Check Act, which reads: “Article 28. It shall be prohibited for legal and natural persons to issue and use written documents, bons and the like which serve as means of payment of products and services, and for the payment of salaries and compensation of expenses and other material rights whose issue and use has not been established by law and other regulations under the law.’; So far, no laws have been prescribed to introduce bons or others as it says here, written documents, so everything that has been done so far with bons has been illegal. I'll say more about it with concrete examples, but now it's legalized, but only one part. Providers, and when? Since 2019. So until then everything stays the way it is, everything is illegal, and then it's just suppliers. I put an amendment to this because of the absurdity because I can't just believe that it's starting to force people since 1.1.2019 to take a bon instead of money. It's simply inconceivable in a country that keeps to itself. But we go back a little bit to the past, not so long ago, and that's our present, and unfortunately it's just not much to talk about anymore, the atmosphere has been quieting down, people have seen that there's no point in rebelling. So here's a few examples of what it looked like. Otherwise, this has been on the trail of my thesis since the first reading that this tax is so-called. the reform made for the bosses, especially for one master who has a castle above the city of Zagreb, which is a agricultural tycoon, with everything else I have caused to please him, the most forgiveness of his debts, here is how this law of change on bonuses pleases him. Here's a few examples of how it was. A few years ago, the White Manastira technophile player Marin Pehar talks about how they used to pay off consumables in the area, he says from the press "if the collaboration of the company with Belje as it was taking more and more to the point, the consummation points came. The boss collected the workers and said they had to make arrangements for who could receive the bonuses. The minimum was 30% of the salary, people mostly agreed to claim that no matter where they bought the groceries. Says the whistler in me then burned, and in front of everyone I told my boss to give up 30 percent of my salary, so when that 30-month crisis goes by, let him pay me in cash. After a few months, the first moanings of workers were created after the bank established 30 percent less wages and cut the redundancies on individual workers' accounts. Workers felt like the slaves of Ivica Todorovic who work for bons or food because they do not have money. It was taken by the bank. It's an example from the White Manastir Technophiler. There was a report, of course. Several workers reported, the same one where the chief was reported to the State Inspectorate, the district unit of Osijek, which therefore established from a series of violations of the prescribed provisions of the Labour Act. In order to pay the salary, the inspectorate argues: “By seeing your salary bill for June as prescribed, the employer paid off part of the salary, so he suspended on behalf of Konzum d.d. that part of the salary has been paid in bonuses.’ Following the above, therefore, the employer found that there is no criminal liability prescribed by the Labour Act and that workers are instructed to bring justice before the Municipal Court. So, they didn't get paid in cash, they follow the law no matter, which now, here, you can sue Agrokor, my people. A man who works for 3,000 kunas should now sue Agrokor in a state that is not legal. His chances are zero. That's crazy. Of course no one did. Not to talk about blackmails so they don't talk about it. This player the Cup got, or he ended up out of work, now he's in the courts. Nothing has changed in that sense. Further examples. For example, when the church decided to help the workers of the fallen Sisak Ironworks, they collected 250,000 kunas for 920 workers, giving it to Konzum. He, Agrokor added another 26 thousand kuna, turned it into bons, and eventually the bons came to needy. An example further. Last year in May, now depends when the article, the resurrection of the Konzum Bons, was obtained by PMF employees, etc., etc. Agrokor presented the victory day on August 5th to all defence ministry employees and members of the armed forces of his consummated bonuses. Keep going. Only in HEP and Croatia are postcards, for the Easters are the 1.3m euros that must be spent in Konzum. Keep going. The workers of DIOKI, a petrochemical firm owned by Robert Ježić, received part of the salary for October and November 2011 from Konzum's bonuses. Inspection, therefore, to see what the institutions have done here, has been carried out and has been found to have failed to find infringements of the regulations of that body's jurisdiction. The inspectorate found that the workers of the DEOKI paid in October were paid in the agreed amount, and partly in the money in two instalments, and in part in the consummated bonuses. A total of 330 thousand kunas were paid to consumers' bonuses and what is worst, the bonuses were shown on RS forms as a salary for October. It was a dioki. Let's move on. There have been reports in other cases. Already tomorrow, the State Inspectorate is going into inspection and say: If the evidence is confirmed, there is the possibility of raising a criminal application to the DORH against an employer who pays his salary illegally. The DORH, a politically conditioned body of judicial persecution in a non-legislative state, question whether and to what extent they managed to do anything about it. Itd., etc. There is even one positive role of a completely rotten institution, the National Bank, which claims it is illegal as well as everyone. We even have a statement from Minister Mrsic of that time. We all know it's illegal, people suffered, sanctions were gone, and now this law is going to make the practice worse. Now you have to receive a bonus, though it doesn't specifically say for workers, it says for suppliers. However, this will continue until the next elections. What will happen after that, then the boss will come back and lobbying for some law to be passed, to extend his work for another four years. The question arises whether we are back in feud. There's a castle, there's a dynasty, there's a family coat of arms, why not your own money. It is known from Croatian history that wealthy nobles were printing, making their own money at the time. It's a tax matter. If it's a bono tax, it's not a bono tax, which was so far, was it, wasn't it? It is now partially regulated, however, the problem remains. We instead of subjecting such bosses to our laws, we write our laws around them, for them, and I cannot, I say, back up such laws. The state's attorney will hear about this when he gets here. There's still an irregularity down there. I think I gave a clear insight. I'm against this article. I've given the amendment to ease as much as possible because I don't think you're going to accept the full package, so at least accept to delete the part of the absurd. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20008	Thank you, Mr. Son. I don't know if this has anything to do with my presidency or your debate, but there's no replica. So we're closing individual debates. As far as I'm concerned, the finance minister won't have the final part in this part.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20009	He would only ask that parliamentary deputies be patient because the finance minister will now come to discuss the next point. The next item is the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, Second Reading, P.Z.BR.28. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by representative Goran Aleksic, representative Ivan Pernar, representatives of Sabina Glasovac, Saša Djujic, Ivan Klarin, Peđa Grbin, Club of IDS, PGS and LRI, Club of SDP Representatives Club of HSS, representatives of Branko Grčić, Boris Lalovac, Miranda Mrsić, Marko Veligaj, Club of Representatives of the Living Wall. The amendment table is divided into benches. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Minister Zdravko Maric. Amendment number one by the Living Wall Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20010	The government doesn't accept. The Government does not accept the proposed amendment. Therefore, what should be mentioned in each case as well as the concepts in the same article are fully in line with the provisions of Article 1. The EU Council Directives 2016 to 27 June amending the Directive prior to the treatment of coupons and the Republic of Croatia cannot prescribe provisions which are contrary to the provisions of course of that Directive. Otherwise, if you allow me to say that in any case the intensity of these provisions is to determine the tax treatment of buying a value voucher for someone. In particular, we have from child birthday cases to any other species where you buy one bond of value and, in fact, this intensity and the intensity of the directive itself is actually that this, to determine tax treatment of such a bona. So after that you can buy different products and services that can also be at a standard rate or a reduced rate, but also according to the directive and according to this bill, therefore the treatment of this value voucher goes at a rate of 25%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20011	I ask the amendmentr to take the floor.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20012	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Minister Maric, it is simply unacceptable for us to put a provision in place so that someone is forced to take the coupon. It's one element of feudalism for us. I remind you that we are not a legal state and that we have a long and unfortunate history with, say, consummations that I have explained in detail in my debate by quoting a dozen examples... These bonuses, in addition to Minister Mrsic's claims at the time, that it is illegal, the National Bank that it is illegal, the State Inspectorate that it is illegal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, this opens up an unwanted practice and calls for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20013	I would ask esteemed advocates to declare who is in favour of putting this amendment into the Final Proposal for a Law that the Government does not accept? The vote is over. The amendment did not receive the required majority, with 81 votes against, 4 abstentions and 37 for. The next amendment is by the Association of Representatives of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20014	The government does not accept the proposed amendment as well as some of the following which will be given a similar explanation. So this tax reform, which we consider to be complete and comprehensive among other things, sought to make a significant tax discharge for the Croatian economy and Croatian citizens. I'll repeat that we are talking about amounts that in the first year reach net effects of 2 billion kuna. If we look only at the domestic economy and domestic citizens, that is, Croatian citizens reach a level of 2 and a half billion kuna. Here, among other things, the amendment mentions and talks about the strategy for the development of tourism of the Republic of Croatia, which we also mentioned, is also mentioned in other amendments. So, among other things, one of the items in the strategy is, therefore, a further reduction in the tax presium in the Republic of Croatia, which is, among other things, a comprehensive and comprehensive tax reform and seems, and at the same time in that same strategy, identified that, as regards price competitiveness, the overall system and the hotel and restaurant sector of Croatia despite VAT rates in these comparative analyses, it is much better and is recognised as one of the cheapest destinations in the Mediterranean. I will repeat again the EUROSTAT data that say Croatia is at 75.3. Portugal is somewhat cheaper, or together we are somewhere between 74 and 75, while, for example, Greece, Turkey is on indices over 80 and France, Italy on indices 106. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20015	I ask the amendmentr to take the floor.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20016	Your Honor, I must express my dissatisfaction that you have not supported this amendment. That's not our amendment. It's not the political party's amendment, it's the host's Czech. It is an amendment to those who are filling your budget, i.e. the state budget and who are concerned with their work so that we all have a salary including you. I'm sorry about that, and I'm getting more and more like you and your associates on Alan Ford's crew, and I hope you'll see that very soon, because you'll have a street next year. Namely, this is going to be against all the troops, so you'll have what I'm sure you don't want. Thank you very much and I would like to ask all the other parliamentary representatives, that on behalf of Croatian guests, on behalf of a branch holding Croatia still and which is very stable and potent accept this amendment not on behalf of politics, but on behalf of Croatian guests and Croatian tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20017	You haven't spoken out whether or not you want to vote on the amendment. I would ask respected MPs to vote on the amendment whether the above-mentioned amendment should be included in the Final Proposal for a Law for which the Government is against? With most votes 78 against, 3 abstentions and 48 for that amendment is not included in the final draft law. The next amendment is by the Association of Representatives of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20018	The government doesn't accept this amendment either. He, according to our interpretation, is also on the trail of a previous argument with a compromise to just actually exclude food services. However, looking again at the overallity and comprehensiveness of tax reform, this is one of the integral parts of the redesigned, redefine the system of value added tax which should be seen and monitored together in the context of and downturning and significant tax decommissioning of the income tax system, the income tax, and the other of course elements that we have facilitated in this overall tax reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20019	I ask the amendmentr to take the floor.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20020	Thank you very much to all the MPs who voted in favour of the previous amendment. It's just a little short, so I'm calling on a few more to respect this amendment, so let's finally try to do something constructive. Here, just squeeze a little bit more and that's it. Thank you. I'm asking for a vote, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20021	I'm asking the honourable MPs to approach the vote. Who is to include the above-mentioned amendment in the final draft law? The vote is over. I find that with 83 votes against, one abstention and 45 for that amendment is not included in the final draft of the law. The next amendment is by representative Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20022	The Government does not accept that amendment. The explanation is similar or identical to that said. In this amendment, it is proposed that both complete food and non-alcoholic beverages remain at a reduced rate while wine and beer would go at a rate of 25, or as proposed, but again I repeat by the same principles and principles that I have explained and the previous two amendments are not accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20023	The amendment proposed the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20024	I call on both MOST and HDZ to vote in favour of my amendment, to vote in favour of the hosts at least compromised if I cannot fully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20025	I ask esteemed MPs to approach the vote. Who is to include the above-mentioned amendment in the final draft law? The vote is over. I find that with 83 votes against, without abstentions and 46 for that amendment will not be included in the final draft of the law. The next amendment is by representatives Sabina Glasovac, Sasa Djujic, Ivan Klarin and Peđa Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20026	The Government does not accept the proposed amendment. It is almost identical to the amendment under regular number 2 with the same explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20027	Mr. Minister. With this move, you give a heavy blow to Croatian hosts. They knocked on your door for a month, and you didn't open them, and for a month they were loudly insolent, and you didn't hear them. You showed the enemy face to the caterers, inspection flashes and closing several catering facilities you threatened and sent a clear message to all the hosts, calm down, shut up and don't wave. The government's move is unfair, except it's unfair he's also unreasonable, long-term harmful and dangerous because you're paintingly killing a chick who's carrying golden eggs. After this injustice, the hosts will somehow survive the injustice, and what implications this will have on Croatian tourism will we see. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20028	Thank you. Honorable MPs to approach the vote. Who is to include the above-mentioned amendment in the final draft law? The vote is over. I find that with 80 votes against, 4 abstentions and 45 for 5 amendments is not included in the final draft of the law. The next 6 amendments were submitted by representatives Branko Grčić, Boris Lalovac, Miranda Mrsic and Marko Vesligaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20029	The Government does not accept the proposed amendment. It is identical or almost identical to the amendment under regular number 3 with the same explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20030	Proposer of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20031	Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. So the purpose of this amendment after what you have previously refused is compromise. Give all the time you stand for certain compromises, for community, for this, for that. Don't let it stay on paroles, let's accept this reasonable proposal, and that is to say at least in this case accept that VAT on food preparation and food service remains 13%. Why? What are the arguments for that? Because it is a proposal that indirectly protects agriculture, as the HSS has now taken up. And secondly, the food industry that's involved. So we are indirectly giving the impulse here to one huge part of the Croatian economy, increasing its competitiveness directly and indirectly and trying to preserve what is more difficult to preserve, which is precisely the production of various food products in this agricultural and industrial sector. And here we see these days how many problems we have here that are further suffocating this sector and that in some ways prevent normal development and growth. Therefore, I ask you once again for the whole public who has expressed therefore the one who has a direct interest and those who are indirectly interested in it, who have expressed a very clear view on this issue, which is that this issue is resolved in a way that keeps the rate in this case at least on food because the food margins are much less and you are aware of it. When it comes to drinking, it goes on three, five, seven times at coffee, for example. or tea But the food margin is small and should be protected. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] I'm looking for a natural vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20032	I'm asking the honourable MPs to approach the vote. Who is to include the above-mentioned amendment in the final draft law? The vote is over. I find that most votes 80 against, 3 abstentions and 45 for the 6th Amendment are not included in the final draft of the law. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20033	The Government does not accept the proposed amendment. It is fully or very similar to the amendment proposal under regular number 2 and 5 and with the same explanation the Government does not accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20034	Proposer of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20035	Dear Mr. Maric, so as far as I'm aware, changes to the VAT Act are planned for the hosts to come out of the pocket of billions of kuna. And since many of them are on edge and that such a financial blow could simply destroy their existence, destroy their work and destroy their jobs. I suggested, so I gave a concrete amendment on the subject of amending the VAT law so that the caterers still don't raise VAT from 13% to 25%. I think it's a positive proposal and you from the HDZ and MOST government have often told me, Mr. Pernar, give me a concrete proposal, don't just object. Now, for the first time in this assembly of Parliament, I have made a concrete proposal which is in the interest of the citizens of the caterers especially and I appeal now to all those who have suggested to me all this time that I propose something in particular from the ranks of HDZ but of course also from the order of the Most and, of course, to the Club of Representatives of the National Minorities to support my proposal, to vote for it because if they refuse to put my proposal indirectly, you will actually put directly, in fact, directly to the nosers the nosing around the neck. This isn't about me, it's not about me, it's about thousands of caterers who are one foot on the edge of the break-in. And I pray that on my amendment to the vote, I appeal once again to the conscience of all present not to vote on the party's key and directive but in my own heart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20036	I'd like to thank Agent Pernar. I'm asking the honourable MPs to approach the vote. Who is for the seventh amendment to be included in the final draft law? The vote is over. I find that most votes are 80 against, with no abstentions and 47 for the 7th amendment is not included in the final draft of the law. The 8th Amendment was submitted by the HSS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20037	The proposed amendment is not accepted by the Government. The reduction in VAT rates on re-promaterials in agriculture and agricultural production, I think, is well recognised in this amendment. I will point out once again that this measure is stimulated by farmers mainly those small ones who are not in the VAT system in terms of saving their costs, or reducing their costs while those who are in the VAT system are certainly.../The speaker is not understood./... that is to say, they go better from the perspective of their cash flow. And a reduced rate of 13% is proposed for seedlings and seeds, fertilisers and pesticides, other agrochemical products and animal food other than pet food. In connection with the proposed amendment that applies and which is put in place for veterinary medicinal products and services, I can say that there are no such fiscal options at this time, so we took advantage of the maximum opportunities we have for next year. But I also mention two things. On the one hand, veterinary medicines are something we are also thinking about in, surely in the government programme that we presented in the Croatian Parliament and during this debate on tax reform you heard from me several times that the Government will surely seek and find solutions for further tax discharge of the Croatian economy. This segment is, among other things, one of those that we will definitely take among the first to consider but I must also say that at this point in time, as regards veterinary services, the interpretation of the directive is actually a good part and does not foresee this possibility of lowering but in this field we will continue to communicate with the European Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20038	Thank you, Minister Maric. The proposal for an amendment to the Association of Representatives of the HSS has been submitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20039	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, on behalf of all cattle producers in the Republic of Croatia, we are saddened that you did not accept a reduction in VAT and veterinary medicines, veterinary services because we are all here in the debates seeking assistance in Croatian livestock farming, we know how much a fall in milk production, we know how much a fall in pig production, we see what problems there are in poultry production, and you know that in their gross balances there is a huge cost of input and one item, veterinary medicines and services. And since a large part of the veterinary medicinal products are produced in the Republic of Croatia, we were able to help both the livestock sector and the pharmaceutical industry and unfortunately we see that there is still no room for it. So here's my appeal to all MPs to support this amendment, it wouldn't be a major blow to the state budget and thus to help our cattlemen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20040	Thank you, Agent Vlaovic. I ask esteemed MPs to approach the vote. Who is to include the above-mentioned amendment in the final draft law? The vote is over. I find that most votes 78 against, 3 abstentions and 45 for that amendment are not included in the final draft of the law. The 9th Amendment was submitted by the IDS, PGS and LRI Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20041	The proposed amendment is not accepted by the Government as well as by the previous ones that I explained since this is, according to my record, the last one concerning the reduced VAT rate to the catering sector, which is to return it to 25. Let me once again say that we believe that this tax reform, integrity and comprehensiveness have affected the entire Croatian economy and certainly one of the key elements and for this activity that you say is important and we consider it to be such but that there are a lot of good elements that will certainly be recognised both on the side of the offer, i.e. the input, so perhaps more on the side of demand, given that disbursement of the economy and mainly citizens raises the income available, i.e. the intensity and consequences of that should be raising the available income and economic and investment activities. And we will certainly continue to monitor both the catering sector and the wider tourism sector, which is one of the strategic branches. I will point out again that the numbers we discussed in the debate on investment potential, above all, in the hotel sector, and in total tourism, remain. We believe that with all these measures, both in tax reform and in those who will come later, we will further stimulate mainly investment and overall activity and in this activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20042	Does the amendment promoter want to take the floor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20043	Well, Mr. Minister, I suppose this amendment, as well as the previous ones regarding hospitality, will be rejected by most votes. But what I would like to point out is that the tourism minister's IDS has proposed a more competitive VAT rate in Croatia compared to our competing countries, Italy, Spain, France. And the idea was not to go from hollow to empty but to try to increase the base or base. And we see that after five years that base has grown significantly. What does that mean? Tourism revenues are significantly higher than they were 5 years ago when the VAT rate was uncompetitive. Furthermore, in the meantime, they stepped up, significantly intensified investments in tourism. And I am pleased that the new tourism minister, Mr. Cappelly, announces a really big investment in tourism for 2017. But they have not happened safely in the past 3, 5 or 7 months. This is exactly the way these investments were unanimously consensually adopted Strategy for the Development of Tourism within which the instruction to reduce tax presses in the tourism sector. What I fear will happen to this is what I said in the first reading debate that, first of all, we will reduce the quality of our tourism, which is not good in the long term, which we will certainly reduce by this move the number of persons employed in tourism or catering, and by this move we will increase the VAT rate of our significant branch, which fills 18% of Croatia's GDP in a subordinate position compared to our competing countries. Furthermore, we'll see, time will show I'm holding that tourism revenues will shrink and host and that the 25% effect will not be the one that has 13% today. I therefore demand that this proposal be voted on. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20044	Thank you. I ask esteemed MPs to approach the vote. Who is to include the above-mentioned amendment in the final draft law? The vote is over. I find that most of the votes are 82 against, without abstentions and 45 for the 9th amendment is not included in the final draft of the law. The 10th Amendment was filed by a representative of the Living Wall club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20045	The Government does not accept the proposed amendment. As I said on the 8th amendment, therefore, it is our proposal to lower the VAT rate to the inputs in agricultural production. I will repeat once again the seedlings, seeds, fertilisers, pesticides and other agrochemical products and animal food other than pet food. In this way, we stimulate domestic agricultural production and give an input, regardless of certain comments, that someone will be in this together unsatisfactory. I repeat again, surely we will consider further options for tax discharge. The proposed amendment, among other things, is in line with this principle and, above all, because it specifically singles out one segment which, in fact, in the tax form or in the tax sense, would mean an additional complication or complication of the whole process because it would in fact make it difficult to identify among other things such food products and, of course, the control system. Otherwise, they can say that the principle of general tax reform is that, in any case, the tax system is simplified as much as possible, with as much exclusion as possible, i.e. the avoidance of various exemptions and reliefs and that these types of compensatory or stimulating measures are resolved directly and through the budget. I think that the ecological and good work of biodynamic agricultural production is already recognised in agricultural incentives, and certainly in this field should continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20046	The amendment proposed the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20047	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am sorry that the government has not accepted this amendment despite these announcements that there may be some incentives in the budget for the coming year that have not been so far. I would like to mention once again to all those who do not know that the founder of biodynamic agriculture Rudolph Steiner was born in Croatia. So he was born in the Lower Queen in Međimurje and it's just amazing that the government does not in any way encourage biodynamic agriculture, but we actually import biodynamic agriculture products, for example. They are imported by DM and sold to Croatian citizens. I think it is high time to break the practice that what, in which we therefore have the potential to express, and I stress the export potential and, among other things, biodynamic agriculture has a good impact on people's health and on the environment to ignore it, and that in fact, one amendment that wanted to break such a bad practice, and so on because implementation of this amendment requires minimal resources in the budget. In fact, it represents more than one good gesture, one intention than some concrete effect, since in Croatia, producers of biodynamic agriculture are only measured in hundreds. So we should encourage the development of this agriculture and therefore the reasons why we are not giving up on our amendment but we are calling on all MPs to vote for its acceptance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20048	I'd like to thank the representative. I am voting on amendments which one of the MPs is to include that amendment in the final draft of the law? The vote is over. I find that most votes are 80 against, without abstentions and 45 for, the 10th amendment is not included in the final draft of the law. The 11th amendment was submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20049	The government doesn't accept the amendment. Allow a few sentences of explanation. The provisions of Article 39(1) of the Value Added Tax Act stipulate that VAT payments are the release of the supply service of goods related to the protection of children and young people carried out by institutions, bodies with public authority or other persons of a similar nature. That Article is fully in line with Article 132(1) of the Council Directive 2006. This exemption from VAT shall be effected if the delivery or service related to the protection of children and young persons is carried out by other persons to whom no public authority has been transferred provided that they do not seek to obtain profits and, nevertheless, if the benefit is not distributed, it shall be used to continue or improve the provision of services as provided for in Article 39(3). The value added tax law. According to the special regulation, this is the Nanny Act, they can carry out their activities exclusively in the context of crafts, and according to the provisions of the Law on crafts, it is an independent and permanent exercise of authorised economic activities by natural persons with a purpose of achieving income or profits created and produced, by transport or by providing services on the market. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council and of the Council on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union. However, let me also say that in the overall proposal of the Law on Value Added Tax after obtaining the consent of the European Commission, which, of course, we believe will be positive from 1.1.2018. the threshold for entering the VAT system will be raised from the existing 230 thousand to 300 thousand kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20050	Thank you. The amendment promoter asked for a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20051	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Minister, I can understand this part of you that you said, but the fact is that the nannies are doing a really specific job. So it's a specific kind of twist. Yesterday I was here in the debate or yesterday explaining why the craft, because the simplest management of bookkeeping, was no other form. Everything else would be much more expensive, and a model was asked for the nanny to get out of one gray zone and a gray market, so that they could be a regular job. On the other hand, they earn so much money that they can pay their wages and eventually pay other nannies. I can't invest. So these aren't companies where you can buy a car or a machine, and then it's taken away as some kind of relief and you're going to take it off below 300 thousand kuna. We'll get to that, unfortunately. So the babysitters who have 12 children and both work have over 300 thousand kunas per year, so income. This means that they will have to pay VAT or they will have to raise the price of their parents which will not be good, because most parents will not be able to handle it or they will simply have to remove one part of the children from the security system. So both are not good for children. I'm asking you to see some model in which nannies as a good parent service can really survive. At this point, about a hundred women paid their own money for nanny education. I'm afraid many of them will give up because they won't be able to survive if they have to pay VAT.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20052	I'd like to thank Representative Opacic. I am voting on the proposed amendment. Who's to be included in the final bill? The vote is over. I find that most of the votes, 81 against, without abstentions and 46 for that amendment, 11 in a row is not included in the final draft of the law. The 12th Amendment was filed by the Living Wall Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20053	The proposed amendment is not accepted by the government. Here we have to explain and say that these purchases of machinery and equipment from abroad, which actually includes the Republic of Croatia, but also the EU space already exists, i.e. the accounting category has already been implemented as such. In principle, VAT on imports shall be paid within the time limit for payment of import duties in accordance with customs regulations, and taxpayers shall be entitled to a deduction of the pre-tax under the law of the prescribed conditions. Exceptionally, this proposal provides for a possibility which is in accordance with Article 211 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council, the European Parliament and of the Council are to apply the VAT category to imports of certain machinery and equipment if the same is previously approved by a decision of the Customs Administration in the final proposal for a law, I propose that the VAT accounting category should only apply to those taxpayers who have the right to deduct the pre-tax in full. In this way, the equipment and machinery necessary for the production of goods competitive in domestic and foreign markets will make it more accessible to taxpayers, thereby further facilitating business conditions and affecting the liquidity of taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20054	Does the amendment promoter want to take the floor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20055	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. The fundamental principle of any tax reform would be to burden one who has money, to whom there is something to be taken, and not one who has nothing to be taken or who is somewhere on the edge, and then the reform will push him into the abyss. I'm afraid this article pleases the import of machines, and more to mutilate what's left of Gredelj, Končar, Đura Đaković, etc. Therefore, I seek and insist on this amendment. I'm looking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20056	I thank Representative Sincic. I am voting on the proposed amendment. Who is to include the above-mentioned amendment in the final draft law? The vote is over. I find that most of the votes, 85 for, 5 abstentions and 42 against the refusal of the amendment proposed by the Living Wall Representatives' Club. The 13th Amendment is also from the Living Wall.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20057	The government doesn't accept this amendment either. That Article provides for transitional provisions concerning the tax treatment of vessels intended for entertainment, aircraft, passenger cars and other means of passenger transport for which no pre-tax deduction was possible under point (a) of Article 61 of the Law on Value Added Taxation, which are taxpayers... until 31 December 2017 [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In view of the fact that, according to the provisions currently in force, bonds which could not benefit from the deduction of pre-taxes in the supply of such means of transport also deliver the same goods without payment of VAT because they are exempt from delivery pursuant to Article 40(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law on value added tax. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20058	Proposer of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20059	Thank you very much, Prime Minister Maric. I don't even know why we're voting on these amendments here, because you don't accept any amendment to the opposition. I think we should vote here on a law that says your infallibility, hence the infallibility of Minister Maric as the Pope. Because whatever we said, you refused everything. So you're one knowing minister who doesn't really need an opposition or another party in Croatia at all. You simply, therefore, decided that no amendment to the opposition would be accepted, you say to our faces, let's stop this play. There are also people who watch us live, dear guests. And I also want to tell you that what you're allowing to import BMWs, I don't know Mercedes and planes at this point without paying the VAT. Here are the children you've just heard, so Croatia will be able to introduce private jets for private entertainment that will not have to pay VAT. So is this the policy you stand for? Is that the justice you've been talking about all along about fair redistribution in tax reform? Here, so you vote yes now, and I want to say that this whole tax reform and this vote shows that you do not respect Croatian citizens at all in any way. Well, say no to all the amendments and the end of the story. You have a voting machine here, and yours is some kind of redistribution of the Croatian future in fact only goes to the hands of those who put you there, which is one small few tycoons and associated politicians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20060	Thank you, counsel Bunjc. I'm putting the amendments to the vote. Who is to include the above-mentioned amendment in the final draft law? The vote is over. I find that with 81 votes against, without abstentions and 41 amendments proposed by the Living Wall Representatives Club are not accepted. The 14th amendment was proposed by the HSS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20061	The government does not accept this amendment either, and not the conscious finance minister will try to explain it. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The VAT law is fully in line with Article 176. Directives of the Council which prescribes provisions concerning the restriction of the right to deduction. That article provides that VAT cannot in any case be deducted for expenditure which is not strictly business such as expenditure on luxury, entertainment or entertainment. Therefore, the proposed definition in the final draft of the law prevents the deduction of the tax on any expenditure that the taxpayer does not carry out for the purposes of their taxed transactions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20062	Does the amendment promoter want to take the floor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20063	... We are asking to vote on this amendment, is this another compromise against the caterers to raise consumption because if in this way it would allow the pre-tax on the team to be rejected in a 100% pre-tax amount, it would not go to the gray zone to reduce the pressure on the caterers to run double accounting, and in this way it would certainly give one compromise solution to give the hosts the chance that consumption would not be reduced in their locals. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] And please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20064	Thank you. I'm putting the amendments to the vote. Who is to include the above-mentioned amendment in the final draft law? The vote is over. I find that most votes 80 against, 1 abstention and 46 for, the 14th amendment is not included in the final draft of the law. We're moving on with our work. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax. Please engage, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most votes are 78 for, without abstentions and 9 against the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax. The HDZ Representatives Club has proposed to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of a conclusion which reads: It undertakes the Government of the Republic of Croatia to initiate an amendment to the EU Council Directive 2010/88, the VAT Directive, as this Directive provides that Member States cannot apply reduced VAT rates to e-books. Does the proposal's representative want to show himself about the proposal for a conclusion? Before the proposal is made, I would like to ask Agent Lackovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20066	Thank you, Mr. President. So I see that a significant number of MPs have left this session today, a vote on these laws, and I would like to request a short recess to consult within the Labour and Solidarity Club, People's Reformists and Independent Councilors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20067	I apologize, the time to apply for a break has passed so we can move on with our work. Here you go. Zdravko Maric, Minister of Finance. A brief clarification, a brief clarification. A brief clarification, a brief clarification. So at the time when the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, second reading, P.Z.BR.28 The SDP Representatives Club requested a break at that time for the same reason which is now being sought at the moment by Agent Lackovic. So that break was approved for that very purpose. For this purpose, he would pray that the other MPs had the opportunity to agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20068	I mean, there have been some changed circumstances. You can see that one section of the assembly has been emptied, this is not the same situation as it was before. So obviously the situation in the assembly is changing, and we are asking for a break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20069	No parliamentary representatives always have the right to leave the assembly. So right now, I'm not gonna let you take a break. Zdravko Maric Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20070	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts and supports that conclusion. I will take this opportunity to say that, regardless of these first 14 amendments that we have shown that we do not accept, I think she made a lot of comments and suggestions that were made in the first reading or debate in the context of the first reading and in part the second reading, so on the other hand, this proposal concludes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20071	I am voting on the proposal for a conclusion of the HDZ Representatives Club. Please engage in the vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes are 82 for, with five abstentions and no votes against the conclusion reached in the text as proposed by the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20312	. So we can move on to the next set of points. So, we move on to the laws: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 27; - Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Special Tax on Motor Vehicles, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 20; - Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Customs Service Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 21; - Final proposal of the Tax Administration Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 22; - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on fiscalisation in cash, second reading, P.Z. No. 25; - Final proposal of the General Tax Code, second reading, P.Z. No. 24; - Final proposal of the Law on administrative cooperation in the field of tax, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 26; - Final proposal of the Law on administrative fees, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 29; - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax Advisory, P.Z.E. No. 30; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Article 172. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The materials were delivered to you. And of course we will debate under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure in the second reading of all these laws and amendments can be submitted as always until the end of the debate. As far as the committee is concerned, the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget reported the debate. You received the reports at the session. My question is, are any of the representatives of the board? If not, then we can give the word to Minister Maric. Minister of Finance, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20313	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So, like this morning, I will try to briefly repeat certain things and the most important details of this second one now, we can say so, a set of laws or apostrophe of what is different and what has been made certain adjustments after our first reading debate, in order to actually open a debate on the subject of final draft laws today. I'll start with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Expenses Act. In relation to first reading, there were no major, significant changes and corrections, but I will still repeat those basics, so certainly the intensity among others and in this law was to facilitate how administratively simplify actual behaviour in certain segments. So I'm going to mention the introduction of an institute called the so-called Institute. small distilleries to which a reduced excise duty rate of 50 per cent of the standard rate is applied. The conditions are up to 2.5 thousand liters of brandy per year in terms of production. So this is certainly something that we consider to be a particular incentive for our family farms, cooperatives, and ultimately agriculture and the agricultural segment. On the other hand, as far as administrative simplification is concerned, the suspension of the obligation to submit an annual excise duty form to small producers of strong alcoholic beverages is currently around 41 thousand. Facilitating the dispatch of wine to other EU Member States in the system of suspension of excise duty for small winemakers, there are about 2,000 of them. So, instead of small winemakers, administrative formalities and jobs will be done by the customs administration on their behalf, and the introduction of new tobacco products as subject to excise taxation such as heated tobacco products, e-fluids and some new tobacco products. As regards the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Special Tax on Motor Vehicles, therefore, we consider that there is, among other things, a modernisation of the taxation system of motor vehicles, in line with trends in the EU, above all I mean, of course, relating to taxation or the element of so-called. We strengthen the environmental taxes in our tax system because we retain the model of a mixed taxation system according to which the specific tax is determined on the basis of a valuable and ecological criterion, by harmonising the rate of CO2 emissions, i.e. CO2 emissions, and carbon dioxide, taking into account the time since the law was passed and the constant trend in reducing carbon dioxide emissions. So anyway, we're keeping that model. Compared to the first reading, there have been some adjustments in terms of value alignment for cars, slightly higher values, but in the debate we had during the morning, there will probably be some adjustments. Finally, the Government of the Republic of Croatia also has certain powers within the meaning of a regulation to correct certain percentages. What is important, therefore, is the reduction of the specific tax on motor vehicles from 8 to 9 seats. It is also one of the elements that we have tried to identify in this legislative proposal the possibilities of stimulating, so to say demographic renewal, but mainly for families with slightly larger numbers of children. Therefore, for 9-seat vehicles, the reduction of the special tax is 75 per cent, for those with 8 seats of 50 per cent. In any case, changes in the medium term should contribute to the trend of using environmentally acceptable and thus more efficient motor vehicles and are expected to affect, of course, consumer preferences and market adaptation. As regards the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Service Act, there have also been very small or small corrections, both technical and new technical, but in any case the intensities of the law are further harmonising the organisation in order to regulate business processes with a view to creating a rational and meaningful system, and removing observed anomalies and legal and technical deficiencies. A clearer and simpler arrangement of the position of management structures in the customs administration system, while retaining the appointment of the Director of Customs Administration through a public tender, while the provisions on customs titles are aligned with the general concept of system arrangement, the classification of jobs in the system of state administration. As regards the final proposal of the Tax Administration Act, the Tax Administration Act is, in fact, in its basic sense and the aim is to create a natural basis for the functioning of the tax administration as a single and independent administrative organisation in the system and a component of finance, which in an economic and efficient way executes the tasks of its own part-round. In order to remove the identified problems arising from the previous reorganisation, certain changes in the organisational structure will be carried out, and certainly one of the basic objectives is, as well as ultimately, the tasks of the Ministry of Finance leadership, of course, the promotion of both the organisational and human general equipment of the tax administration. I will repeat once again, therefore, the effectiveness of tax collection or effective work of the Tax and Customs Service is certainly not only a prerequisite for this tax reform but also for each other, and in general without any changes in the tax legislation, it is certainly one of the key preconditions. In this work, of course, I will refer to one of the topics which was also quite current in our first reading, i.e. a number of representatives, you have, in many of your statements, and in the context of discussions by clubs, as well as in the context of individual discussions, mentioned quite a lot of the independent sector to combat tax fraud which, as we have spoken from the very beginning, did not just work on tax reform, but in general, therefore it was never the intensity that this structure unit was neither abolished nor weak nor makes it more effective and ineffective. Today, among other things, we also had a statement from the state's attorney's office where you saw that they continued to work, of course not just to work but to get results. It is mentioned that the structure unit but you certainly know that it works on the basis of the tax, customs administration and all other establishment units of the Ministry of Finance. What may be a correction in relation to the first reading and the proposal for a law with which we went in the first reading to define in the Tax Administration Act itself or to identify the independent sector for financial investigations which is defined among other things in terms of its responsibilities and responsibilities and ultimately the powers to be given to it. It is also clear in the proposal that all its employees, or officials of the Ministry of Finance, working in that service, must pass a mandatory security check which was, of course, the case and so far, and now we have, among other things, made it clear by the letter of the law. However, I will point out once again that a more detailed breakdown regarding the self-service, financial investigations and all other structural units is certain to be prescribed between the internal organisation regulation of the Ministry of Finance. But I repeat once again I think that in these provisions it is very clear and very clear, therefore neither was it ever intended to end this service but rather to strengthen it both organisationally and as a matter of need of staff. At the same time, we believe that she needs full professionalisation and ultimately absolute depolitisation in terms of any influence. So you can expect this establishment unit as well as everyone else under that proposal for a final proposal of the Tax Administration Act will continue their efficient and good work. As regards the final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on fiscalisation in cash, you already know this from the first reading, therefore the obligation is introduced for fiscalisation for taxpayers carrying out the activity of ticket sales or chips in passenger transport, except for the sale of tickets or tokens in line local transport and the sale of tickets or chips in air, rail and line coastal transport. Responsibilities for the use of the correct fiscalisation device are prescribed for both the taxpayer and the software manufacturer and the possibility for the pauschalists to issue invoices from certified accounts and for them is introduced by means of a fiscalisation by means of the device as well as for all other obligors of course. In terms of the difference in the first reading, we have a few smaller ones, or we can say again technical, nomotechnical corrections which are the result and the fruit of your discussions and also the comment of the Committee on Legislatives. Therefore, the provision amending Article 3 of the applicable law is added following the amendment of the specific provisions to which it is referred in the provision of the article. That provision is therefore prescribed in Article 2 of the final proposal of the law and, accordingly, a further numbering of all articles. Furthermore, Article 7 has been amended in relation to the draft law. As a consequence of the technical implementation of the provisions of that Article, it is observed that the indication of certain provisions is excessive. It is also accepted that the Ministry of Justice's proposal to further consider the regulations, the infringement provisions that have finally been done. As far as the final proposal of the General Tax Code is concerned, I will repeat it once more, instead of the relative and absolute age, a single 6-year-old deadline is prescribed. The act of aging bodies is required to keep an eye on their official duties. The tax administration will carry out an annual system or system write-off of debt for which, from the 1st of January of the current year, old payment rights have entered into force. Monitoring procedures and corrections will be carried out within 3 years. A provision on the delivery by electronic means is being developed which is already required for entrepreneurs and is also one of the clear signals that we are not only making administrative and fiscal and financial discharges but also self-procedural. We certainly want this act, as well as many other procedures, to actually change the direction of communication and make it as easy as possible for both citizens and entrepreneurs. The obligation of banks to deliver other than data on the transport of all kuna and foreign exchange accounts of legal persons, natural persons carrying out the registered activity of crafts and free professions, and citizens to supply data on current and savings accounts. On the basis of the provisions of the law, a methodology on the application of the principle of opportunity will be adopted in order not to punish it but to issue a notice of minor infringements, etc. Infringements of bagatile value. In terms of the difference in the first reading, again and as a result of our first reading debate, as well as the comments we received in the form of a committee and as part of individual discussions, the definition of concession fee has been developed in Article 2(7) to take into account the future definition of concession fees under the new concession law. In Articles 146 and 150, which excludes the customs administration from carrying out the exercise and writes down a minor tax debt, therefore, when applying the customs legislation because the customs administration does not have the right to write off the amount as non-refundable, which means that it will have to be paid into the EU budget on the burden of the Republic of Croatia's budget. In Article 153 on the initiative and on the proposal of the distinguished representative Grodjana Peric, he returns to the text of paragraph 2 on small-value performances, because it is the city and county taxes and public taxes, namely the public giving of small value, and that provision has accelerated the forced collection of city taxes and public taxes that are cut annually, and most tax solutions are up to the amount of 5 thousand kuna. The provision was also further completed with the proposal of FINA in order to simplify what was necessary, and thus to cheapen the forced payment procedure in the case of a tax liability of less value up to the amount of those 5 thousand kunas, i.e. by forced collection and by the implementation of the budget implementation obligation. In Article 163(4), paragraph 4 has been amended in a way that raises the value of the prescribed movements to 500 000 for the obligation to publish in the daily press, i.e., instead of the previously prescribed 200 thousand kuna, as additional costs are being incurred in the case of the debtors who are obliged to make such an increase in the movable value to be reduced by a certain number of debtors. The provision of a proposal for a law numbered as Article 192 is relocated to a chapter of tax supervision. And also as one of the things that we had on the Legislative Committee. Therefore, in Article 197(2), a legal and no-technical provision has been developed as a proposal from the Committee has been adopted to explain the feedback of the provision of Article 197(2) of the Law in view of its retroactive application. In the very proposal of the law, we made it very clear and perceived, or explained. As far as the law on, the proposal for a law on administrative cooperation in the field of tax is concerned, so there is still what we said in the first reading. Therefore, in view of the obligation of administrative cooperation with other Member States, the Republic of Croatia must adapt its legislation to data exchange requirements. As far as very frequent changes are concerned, we have thus practically singled out this segment of the General Tax Law, and at the same time, of course, the law will cover how new directives on the exchange of cross-border opinions in VAT are in the revenues of multinational companies. Regulation of the provisions contained in the OPZ, the General Tax Law on Administrative Cooperation in the field of taxation, on the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation, and on mutual assistance and rebursement of requests relating to taxes, customs duties and other measures. And under three regulation provisions for the application of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America on the improvement of the fulfilment of tax obligations at international level and the implementation of so-called FATCA. As regards changes compared to first reading, they are more or less technical and nomotechnical. The proposal for a law on administrative fees, hence the existing law is incompatible with the EU directive, services on the internal market in part of the possibility of carrying out all procedures, and thus the payment of administrative fees in all amounts electronically at a distance. Among other things, it was also one of the reasons why we went to these adjustments. Therefore, the Ministry of Economy as a single contact point and the initiator of its kind of harmonisation, the e-tax project run by the Ministry of Administration was also included in the whole problem. It shall be prescribed to pay administrative fees on the prescribed invoice regardless of the amount of the administrative fee and, exceptionally, up to 100 kuna may be paid in the national records. Since certain institutions have provided for payment of new administrative fees or new exemptions from payment of administrative fees, it is also necessary to amend the applicable law, since the applicable law has been in force since 1996, and given the number of changes in the meantime, of course, it is certain that the law is being passed as a new one. As regards the change compared to the first reading, we therefore accepted proposals at the level of the Government, which was initiated among other things by the Advocate General, which is that the exemption in question is prescribed from the payment of administrative fees for unemployed persons who appear in a tender for the issuing of certificates, i.e. diplomats as evidence of professional preparation and education. Also, the provision of the box 12 has been completed. The final proposal for a law in such a way as to regulate the limitation of all public charges in the same way, and it is prescribed that the provisions of the law governing the general tax procedure are applied to the procedures for the establishment of an limitation of the right to charge, as well as the procedures for determining the right to return duties. As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Tax Advisory, there is also one need to comply with EU directives. Amendments shall abolish, among other things, the restriction of any legal form for the provision of these services, the restriction under which citizens of the European Union can only set up a branch for tax counselling and not other form of headquarters. It is possible to introduce electronic procedures for the submission of applications and authorisation, i.e. a solution for the implementation of the activities of the Tax Advisory in the Republic of Croatia. At the request of the Croatian Chamber of Tax Advisors, there is a limitation of the share of tax advisers in capital of 51%. This is in line with the European Commission, and there are some other amendments. The obligation of an EU tax adviser to appoint a written authority is lifted. The obligation to supply copies from the register, evidence of working experience, residence and full business capacity shall be abolished, as well as a certificate of impunity when applying for authorisation, as well as other types of evidence and confirmation. Prices of tax adviser services are regulated by market instead of fixed tariff. There have also been slight adjustments compared to the first proposal, i.e. the first reading proposal, and I can also say that there is continued and certain communication at the level of interested parties, i.e. to the public who provide tax counselling services, so that I believe that we will also hear certain positions in this field in the context of the second reading from parliamentary representatives’ comments, i.e. clubs. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20314	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We have a replica of your exposure. Honorable representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20315	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Your Honor. I'm going to ask you for an explanation. So, I listened carefully to your debate. At one point, you said that the self-determining tax fraud sector needed professionalization. I hope with that statement you ran a little bit, so please explain whether this means that the sector in question is now not working professionally or otherwise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20316	Thank you, Mr. Representative. Minister Maric's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20317	Thank you, well-respected representative, for your comment, that is, if I have said something wrong, my apologies, but I certainly did not intend to run into you. I therefore said complete depoliticalisation and further professionalisation in terms of the work of this service, i.e. the sector exactly as proposed. Therefore, it will be a direct establishment unit within the IRS whose head person will also be assistant director of the IRS. All people working in this sector today, or services, of course, continue their work. We can, of course, talk about further teaming and staff reinforcements. I also mentioned that the provision in the bill itself is prescribed and defined that each employee, as are the existing ones, must pass the mandatory security check, the category as already provided for. So, the simple idea, that is, of this bill itself and what will follow in terms of the Internal Design Regulation of the Ministry of Finance is, in fact, just a confirmation of our own thesis from the very beginning, so there has never been any talk of any termination but of the fact, strengthening that service, but of course other services of the Ministry of Finance. I will re-separate that as much as she has initiated for us both in the parliamentary debate and in general in the general public, the topic that we are talking about now and the two of us are discussing within the replicas, I cannot miss again the opportunity to say that this structure must also be very well connected horizontally, so with all the other bodies and structural units of the Ministry of Finance, and, of course, vertically with the other structural units of the other law enforcement bodies. And some recent cases, and here I repeat once again, and this one today is a confirmation of that. My role is also my job as Minister of Finance and all those who are responsible for this, and finally the Government that proposed this law to the Croatian Parliament to ensure conditions, infrastructure and all that is needed to ensure that this body of the building unit does its job effectively and well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20318	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for your reply. We're moving on to debates on behalf of clubs. The first club is the Club of Representatives Let's change Croatia and SNAGA distinguished representative Ivan Lovrinović. Since he's not here, he's losing his right to debate. The second club to come forward for discussion is the club MOST of Independent Lists Mr. Maro Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20319	I thank the esteemed vice president. Ministers with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here I am, on behalf of the Most Independent Lists, going to give our attention to this second package of nine tax laws. First of all, I would like to commend this debate in the second reading that we have shared in several packages because in this way MPs can be much more focused on the subject and put forward their proposals in a much better way. To start with the additions to the Tax Administration Act, we welcome and consider it a good solution to differentiate the new independent sector for financial investigations in relation to the regular affairs of the Tax Administration. Namely, it is the current Independent Sector for the detection of tax fraud, the Colloquial Named Tax SCIK, which will be transferred to the Tax Administration in the new establishment. The provisions which are now complemented by the law allow for the continuation of the work of this sector in the same way as self-employed in the work, all the necessary powers and conditions and the implementation of the security of first-degree verification for sector officials, as already implemented for existing officials, thus guaranteeing that the new officials will also be subject to the same criterion. So we think that this is an excellent provision and that every new official must be as qualified as any who are already there. So this addition of the law on the trail is what we've been pointing out all along to keep the IRSO independent in the work and to carry on uninterruptedly with its activities either as a body self-discovering fraud, either as a body carrying out a financial investigation in cooperation with law enforcement authorities. And here's their success today, let's call it that, is an indication that we have to be on the trail of this law in this way that we've made it possible for them to remain independent and do their job because it's the only possible right way. And in this respect, I thank you for accepting and commenting on one open dialogue that has led to one such solution. We also stress that, in the constitutional acts of the future regulations, the internal structure and the Internal Order Regulation on the basis of the new law, provisions guaranteeing the continuity of work and of course of this sector need to be laid down. Furthermore, I stress the importance of the tax administration's partnership with all honest, let's call honest taxpayers. Many taxpayers complain that there is no two-way communication and waiting for a written reply in five, six months, and sometimes the answer doesn't arrive. They are then left to themselves in making decisions in certain doubt situations, especially in dealing with other entrepreneurs from the EU, which can cost them in cases of errors. We stress the importance of developing better communication with taxpayers to make greater use of modern information technologies and the development of systems that will allow taxpayers to get non-binding opinions within the shortest period of time that counts in days, not months, in order to actually do what is right. Instructions related to the most frequent tax offences and education in this respect would also make it very easier for entrepreneurs, mostly small ones who do not have the means to finance such education themselves. Also in the implementation of the Law on Financialisation in Cash, formal errors made by entrepreneurs should be sanctioned by a warning, and only by such essentials as intentional non-accounting should be punished by high criminal penalties and other appropriate measures. We therefore propose to regulate these issues with the relevant rules and internal acts of the Tax Administration. We would also like to thank you this way and for accepting, in the framework of the Law on Administrative Taxes, the suspension of the tax, i.e. it will be lifted by a corresponding regulation that should have been paid by ship crew members on circular voyages who, due to high altitude and administrative fees of 140 kuna, have been solidarity and have not gone out on land in Croatia, but have done so in neighbouring destinations, such as Montenegro, such as Italy and, of course, have left their money there. Some calculations show that by abolishing such an obligation, around 100 million kuna per year will be injected into the Republic of Croatia's economy somewhere around 30 million kunas indirectly into the state budget through various taxes that will be paid to our economies. Here's our thanks in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20320	Thank you very much, fellow Christian. I don't think we have any replicas. And on behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20321	Dear Madam Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. During the morning, we discussed the first group of laws that make up this tax reform, specifically laws relating to value added and profit taxes, and of course those laws caused far greater public interest than this group that could be called some kind of technical implementing laws on the first ball. However, these laws are equally important for the implementation and functioning of this tax reform. Since we have already discussed them in the first reading, that numerous remarks have been made, we have also talked about them on committees, we will concentrate on certain errors of the illogicality that exist in these laws which, in our opinion, are not sufficiently or at all correct between the two readings, and they shed a lot of bad light on the feasibility of this tax reform, and in a particular segment and on the intention of the proposer himself. The first remark, and I touched it in the replica I gave to the Honorable Minister, concerns the question so-called. the tax USKOK or an independent sector for the detection of tax fraud which, even today, the minister has mentioned very nicely, and today it has proved that there is indeed a reason for the existence of such a service and for its independence. However, we at the SDP Representatives' Club believe that the place for the service is not part of the IRS. Why? Because, among other things, this service should also be controlled by the work of certain tax administration workers, which, of course, stems from the fact that certain tax fraud, let's be completely honest with themselves, can only happen with the cooperation of people from the tax administration. And it is not even in Croatian practice that it was the people of the tax administration who, by their work and action and how they damaged the tax system, made it possible to act against the law. Let us remember the Dubai affair and certain tax workers who, who were found to have huge funds that they could not achieve with their salaries. In this context, we believe that the solution that has existed so far, and that is the solution that this is about an independent sector within the Ministry of Finance, is directly subordinated to the Minister of Finance, a better solution than what you are proposing. With this, Minister, we must point out that we from the Club of Representatives of the SDP have confidence in you personally as Minister because we believe that you are the person who should be directly in charge of such a body. Now, in relation to the first reading, it is necessary to acknowledge this, there is some progress in the proposed legislative solution. In what you said in the opening statement and in what has been said in the past few days in public, progress is far greater than what is written in the law itself. Because all of what you've been saying, for example about the position of the chief of this service, etc., the head, excuse me, as deputy director of the tax administration, there's no word in that form in the law. However, the way that said service mentioned in the law is very inadequate. She only appears in one place. It shall be further discussed when we talk about the issue of a card identifying officials or, for example, security checks, but the structure of that service itself is not mentioned anywhere except where it is said that the transactions referred to in point 11 of Article 9(1). The tax administration law implements this very independent sector. How he'll be set up, etc. It has not been solved and therefore we point out that there is a certain problem with the way in which this service is defined in the law in question. I'm glad you further explained your statement on professionalization, although I don't think it's what that service needs any further professionalization. That service is already highly professionalized. It is about persons who have been through extremely, extremely useful vocational training and in cooperation with other our friendly and partner countries. What is needed is, above all, the preservation of their independence. However, we are now experiencing a serious problem in the law regarding the transitional and final provisions of Article 32 of the Law, which would resolve the status of taxpayers. Therefore, the way in which the status of existing tax administration employees will be maintained is resolved, however, not a single word mentions the status of employees of the Ministry of Finance who are not employees of the tax administration, which is, of course, precisely, the ones coming from the independent sector for the detection of tax fraud. And there is not a single word in this law on how their status and their transfer from the Ministry of Finance to the IRS will be resolved. And I believe that this question really casts a certain shadow on a legal solution or indicates that the legal solution in question is not fully thought out and we fear that it will in practice create certain problems. I'm gonna do it again, so I'm gonna do it again. Minister, if you have followed this debate, you will see that, however, at the SDP's Club of Representatives, we have a certain amount of trust in you, and this is not about anything else but about wanting one service which, by its work and how it justified its establishment, remains independent and continues to achieve excellent results as it has so far. Since this is a united debate, I will conclude with the Tax Administration Act, and I will try to refer to other laws, above all to the Customs Service Act, so the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Service Act. The minister, in the introduction, said it was a minor change, but unfortunately, I have to say, unfortunately, far from the truth. Dear gentlemen of power, therefore, gentlemen of the Most and HDZ. Since the first constitutional session since the first day of work of this Croatian Parliament, this ninth term of the Croatian Parliament, we have indicated that from the professionalization of the public administration that you declared in the pre-election campaign there will be nothing. The first evidence was, of course, the introduction of state secretaries who were not followed by the abolition but by the detention of ministerial assistants. After that, we saw what you did with the Employment Regulation in public enterprises where you abolished the tender for the management of companies of strategic interest owned by the Republic of Croatia. We had a story about the godfather, we had a story about a person who in no 20 days had made progress to the secretary of the ministry even though he did not meet the legal requirements for that job. And why do I mention all this in the context of this law? Well precisely because in this law you have abolished the provisions which prescribed the obligation to conduct a public tender for the posts of deputies, assistant directors of the customs office and head of the district offices. So, gentlemen, from the professionalization of the public administration there is nothing, however, you are introducing in this law that these persons will, therefore, repeat once again: Deputy Director, Assistant Director and Head of the District Office will be elected in a way that is proposed by the Director, and then appointed by the Minister. We've had a public competition so far. Now we have direct, political appointments that go up to the level of head of the customs administration's field office. I don't think this is the right way, and especially not in service like the customs service that has a certain negative past. I'll only mention one last name, Mr. Barisic's last name. And we know we have to deal with special attention here. The following problematic law, from which I will also single out only one provision, which shows that, when adopting or proposing this tax reform, you did not take public interest, is the General Tax Law and this provision of Article 108(8). So, it's a statute of limitations. First of all, I have to be completely open and say that the way it's obsolete as such is better in this general tax law than in so far. It's definitely a step up. Furthermore, the step is very positive that the provisions on limitation applicable in the General Tax Law are applied to the Law on Contributions, to the Law on Administrative Taxes, we are left with court fees, and after that, for all public duties of the statutes of limitations will be arranged more or less equally at the level of the Republic of Croatia, which is extremely positive. However, paragraph 8 of Article 108 of the Law is a little specific. Why? Because it predicts for the first time that the person who pays the tax debt will find himself in a situation where he can ask the state to pay back that money. So there's no confusion, with interest. So I'll do it again. This bill provides for the possibility for an individual to pay the tax debt that exists, and that after he realizes that this debt is obsolete, it may require that he return and not only return to him but the state pay him interest on the debt he was obliged to settle. Now, first of all, there has been no such solution so far, and I'm going to show you that there is something called the Law on Mandatory Relations in which we have the same age. And we also have a situation where the debtor pays the claim that's out of date. I'll read you exactly what article 221 reads. Mandatory relationship law. If the debtor fulfils an outdated obligation, he shall not have the right to claim back what he has given even if he did not know that the obligation is obsolete. What does that mean? It means that if I'm in some civil-law relationship with the state, for example, I bought from the state real estate, and I don't pay, and the state against me doesn't run the process and my obligation falls into obsolescence. I'll pay after that. That money stays with the state. But if I'm obliged to pay real estate taxes for that same property, so I'm late to pay, so I pay when I pay the amount of the purchase price for that property in obsolescence, I have the right to have that money returned to me by the state. I'm afraid this solution is not good. I'm not going to alludate that someone is comfortable with this. I think this is about a mistake. Now, how we're all in a dual role when we come to a political stage, so we're on one side of an individual and we take care of what we used to do. And I look at my colleague Bošnjakovic on purpose because he comes from the same profession. As a lawyer in the interests of my clients, of course, I will welcome this decision because it will make the debtors I worked for in a more favourable position. But as a state official, as someone who receives salary from the Republic of Croatia's budget, I cannot accept such a provision, and I ask you to amend it as well as the customs service officer, and in order to make it easier for you to do so for the customs service and for this matter of Article 108 and the statute of limitations, we have submitted the amendment, we hope that you will accept these amendments. What I'm going to end up with, and I don't have much time left, I wouldn't say this professionally, is primarily a political issue and it's about the fiscalization law. And I'm just going to ask you a simple question and ask you to answer it. Which is why you abolish the notion of a small fiscalisation obligor and therefore impose an obligation on small entrepreneurs to purchase expensive fiscal devices. So there's a reason why small bonds of fiscalization were introduced. From the explanations we received on the board and from the reasoning of the law, you say they simplify their position from the VAT base, the way books are kept, the threshold for entering the VAT system is raised and all that stands. But the fact is that small bonds of fiscalisation are the smallest, those entrepreneurs treated at European Union level as micro-entrepreneurs and I believe that imposing these obligations is not good. And I believe this is a big mistake that I think the government should correct. In short, given that all these laws represent one package of tax reform, none of them alone can be viewed separately from others, and in this respect, the SDP Representatives Club cannot support these laws and will not vote for them as well as for others concerning this tax reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20322	Thank you, fellow coat of arms. We have several replicas on your exhibit. The first replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20323	Dear Vice President, here's a colleague of the Grbin, you have well noticed that from that original proposal that there have been some significant improvements means in the talks with Minister Maric we have assured that the taxpayer USKOK remains an independent body that will not drown in the tax administration. We have ensured that, we have fought for the sector to be specifically defined, that the descriptions of jobs are particularly highlighted, that officials have the necessary powers, that the conditions for working in the sector are a security check of the first step, and all of this was not in that previous version, meaning the first version. Everything else can be provided by additional regulations. And what's good, so now that we've secured some kind of independence of the taxpayer's BOOK within the tax administration, I think it's even going to be an advantage that the taxpayer's BOOK is inside the tax administration because it's going to have additional databases and it's going to make his job easier. All of this other stuff that isn't mentioned in the law itself can be further defined by regulations and I think this is one big breakthrough. And in the interview with employees, the ICCOK means they themselves are satisfied with this proposal and believe that their work and these excellent results that we have today will not be compromised in any way. When you mention the incarceration and the godmothers, I think you'd better keep your mouth shut, so no godfather of the MOST has damaged the state budget, cost a single kuna, means Croatian citizens, and your godmothers, let's just remember your Minister Jakovina who's hired a singer three times, his wife's godfather. When you mention Mr. Barisic, then you mention your head of the tax administration that damaged the state by nine and a half million kuna. This was attended by former Minister Vrdoljak, even your Europarliamentary Borzan. So, when you mention Mr. Barisic then mention your case. MOST's godmothers that you like to mention like this haven't damaged anyone. and have not damaged what is most important to Croatian citizens. [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20324	Time. Thank you very much. I'm asking you to take care of the weather. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20325	Thank you, Madam Vice President. He defends his fellow bush in his own style indefensibly. So the article is 32. - 38. There are several of them so I won't mention them individually, but Mr. Grumoja defends indefensibly and mentioning people who are beyond the general context of the whole story, and prejudges that someone will pass in court. And what did he do? So, I'm no one's lawyer here, but I'd like to say we don't pull off people who are still in court like this. When the lady is convicted, then you can say this automatically. And so far, I don't think that's necessary. [[Intruder Opačić: colleague Maras.]] Godfather hasn't damaged He didn't hurt because he may not have had the chance to damage it. [[/Intruder Opačić: Please. It's not... the Rules of Procedure...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20326	Please, it's not a breach of the rules of procedure. I'd like to ask my colleague Pejo Grbin to have an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20327	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague of the Grmoi. You didn't listen very carefully to my exposure. No, because if you'd listened carefully to my exposure, then you'd have noticed that I didn't mention the MOST's best man's best man, but I mentioned the best man. And being recognized by you at the same time, it speaks more of you than of me. Now, as for those persons you mentioned, if any of them have broken the law, he will be sanctioned for it, and it really does not serve them or that political party they come from. But with those of us who have sinned against the law, we sort of deal with ourselves by doing what we can. We exclude them from the party and prevent them from having any further political action within the SDP. You didn't do it. Yes, of course. But the problem is, you haven't made any sense of what I'm really talking about. And I was talking about a very serious problem, that since this coalition came into force, which is not now in the 10th month, but in January of this year, there have been continuous procedures to deprofessionalise and remove a public competition from political and public life. So I'll do it again. Commercial companies owned by the Republic of Croatia, customs service. Let's just think of the Prime Minister, Mr. Petrov, who, contrary to the law, went into the employment of his co-worker. After that, you change the Statute of Croatian Waters to hire a person who has no conditions. You in the ministry hire a secretary who has no conditions. And you have the nerve to rise up and preach to anyone. No, please, Mr. Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20328	Thank you very much. We're done with the replicas. The next club is the HDZ Club, the distinguished representative of Grozdana Perić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20329	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here at the end of this working day is one and a new positive that we can also commend both the minister and the entire team and the entire government. Croatia's economy has been announced on the government's pages in the 3rd quarter of 2.9% since last year, which is the fastest growth in the last eight years. Here is the freshness published by the State Statistics Office, which still gives hope that all the changes that seem to be made, and according to this and all those that are now in the process will bring and how the expected growth of the economy continues. In fact, by discussing and preparing for these nine laws, what's unique to say for everything, we're actually hoping that with these changes we'll improve and simplify the whole of the legislation, this administratively. That we will regulate many relationships that will provide for some tax-law predictions and that we will manage to reduce the overall burden, tax burden, and also certain taxes that are otherwise regulated in this way. In the Excise Taxation Act, it is already mentioned, it is pleased that however small OPGs, cooperatives and farmers will have a lower rate of excise duty on those products, i.e. brandy and products which, as small distilleries, have very high rates. In this case, it will be only 50% of that standard rate and will actually facilitate their business and contribute to the overall economy. Also, this administrative simplification includes this that annual excise accounting patterns will actually be abolished, and when we translate that it is still 41 thousand such producers, then it is certainly important to simplify the entire system. As well as the fact that, instead of small winemakers, the customs administration will actually carry out these formalities when wine is sent to other EU Member States. In fact, there is a change in excise taxation compared to heated tobacco products, our liquids, and some of these tobacco products. For motor vehicles, we hope this is actually going to be a modernization of the taxation system, and everything in line with the provisions we have in relation to CO2 emissions. What may not have been mentioned is that motor vehicles produced more than 30 years ago have been given the status of an old timer and are not subject to taxation. That's what those who do it will look forward to. And what's still a change is that motor vehicles with nine seats have a 75 percent reduction, while the one with eight by 50 percent. The minister mentioned the same thing in relation to the first reading that increased percentage amounts to pay at the cost of motor vehicle excise duties that are over 300 thousand or 300 thousand and one lip, and these are the range of 9-30 percent, so all the more valuable cars that are taxed additionally are significant shifts, these are luxury cars that thus contribute to the budget. The Customs Service Act shows that certain details are, in fact, just a clearer position of the management structures of customs, while retaining the appointment of directors through a public tender. The Tax Administration Act also provides for the rights and responsibilities of tax administration officials where they actually become, in the context of systems and regulations on civil servants, if some other law is not otherwise prescribed. The collective contract for civil servants and tenants and according to the rules on civil servants is also implemented for these tenants. It also amended the name and function of the internal audit where it was separated from the internal control function, which is very important under the Law on the Internal Control System in the public sector. Here we see in the fiscalization law itself that here is also criticism on account of it, and the obligation is prescribed by means of the device and for taxpayers who are actually in the system, or who pay the flat tax where we can be for and against such provisions, but here is the newspaper. In the general tax code, the intervention here is indeed that until now it has not been known to the Institute to write down a small tax debt. That's now the nine-pound write-off for that kind of debt. Automatism has been gone so far. We also want to make it easier in this small-value intervention because the units of local and regional self-government, especially local ones, are conducting procedures based on the General Tax Code. And really in this way, when they are up to 5 thousand kuna, then this implementation is much simpler and easier to implement because they are actually being assigned directly to the FIN, although in the implementation of the performance, the local unit was really a lot of difficulty, and here it is trying to make it easier and actually clear as many balance sheets as possible, which are pretty crowded with claims. It is also very good that this threshold of value prescribed from 200 to 500 thousand for publication in the daily press actually enables not to generate additional costs for those debtors where it is not necessary, but in fact, this way is accelerated and facilitated. Likewise, when we talk about administrative cooperation in the field of tax, there have been no specific changes. While the Law on Administrative Taxes is really good that Article 12 of the Law of all public administrations is actually governed in the way that it is arranged for the General Tax Procedure. And it is very good to respect this observation by the Ministry of Science and Education to free the payment of administrative fees by an unemployed person who appears in a tender for the issuing of certificates or diplomas as evidence of professional preparation and education. It is, however, important to those who are unemployed and in this status, every kuna is significant and this is how it is made easier. In the Tax Advisory Act, there were a lot of interventions from their chambers and the like. Here is article 6 of the Law which actually added that as a tax advisor he can also be an expert specialist with a degree recognised in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, it is also accepted that in the Tax Advisory Act, it is in fact possible for Article 16 to extend the adjustment period to companies referred to in this Article from 6 months per year in which these companies are obliged to coordinate their business and meet the conditions laid down in this law. In this way, here and that request is fulfilled. We hope that exactly all of these interventions, as well as proposals that have been in the package with everything else so far, will really contribute to what I said at the beginning that the economy has grown, or that GDP has increased by 2.9%, which I hope then will actually continue to act positively in this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20330	Thank you very much. We have two replicas on your exhibit. The first replica of the distinguished representative Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20331	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear counterpart Peric, you said that this tax reform will make everything more positive, so that some shifts can be seen. I'll briefly look back on one of these regulations that we're discussing at this point, which is the Law on Special Tax on Motor Vehicles. I want to say that when this tax reform comes into force, it will also be necessary to amend some sublaws. This law has previously established that this special tax is not paid on vehicles specially adapted for persons with disabilities or for the transport of persons with disabilities. However, the regulation limited, so people with disabilities had to pay that tax, and associations or some institutions that imported a custom vehicle did not have to pay that tax. I would also like to express my satisfaction and special gratitude to both Mr. Minister and his associates for understanding the problem in which we found ourselves and agreed that we would solve this problem so that people with disabilities whose car was orthopedically aided would be free of that tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20332	Thank you very much. Would you like a reply to the replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20333	... So, I hope by regulation or regulation, I don't know what can be arranged, but in any case it's positive and hopefully it'll be appreciated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20334	Thank you. We have another replica of your exposure. Representative Bernarda Topolko.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20335	Thank you. My colleague Peric, you have noted that in the amendments and additions to the Law on Special Tax on Motor Vehicles, it is abolished on vehicles over 30 years of age. But it's only partially true. It shall be withdrawn by virtue of Article 2, the old timer of the vehicle shall be withdrawn. However, Article 8 states that all motor vehicles manufactured 30 and more years ago which are not classified according to specific regulations in the category of older vehicles are to be accounted for. A special tax is paid in a flat-rate amount of 2 thousand kuna, which I believe is quite high because we all know that if the legislator already allows us to buy and sell or trade such vehicles, such a vehicle can cost 2,000 or 3,000 kuna. And then pay another tax on that 2,000 kuna is very much. More generally, such a vehicle uses the lowest layer of the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20336	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20337	Then define actually clearly then the notion of the oldtimer himself, is it, so-called? If it's going to be fixed for years then I think that's how he should be unequivocal and defined because that's what the proposal said, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20338	Thank you very much. We're moving on to a debate on behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Mladen Mader.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20339	Dear Vice-Presidents of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to point out on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS some indifference regarding the Law on Road Motor Vehicle Tax, which the HSS Club will surely submit to the amendment. I would like to point out that paragraph 3 says that the solutions will be presented in registration, which will probably be as an environmental compensation, which will be found at the Technical Review Station and must be paid immediately. That is what paragraph 3 states. Paragraph 4 states that the collection is carried out by a legal person whose composition is the technical inspection station. It should be said that the technical inspection stations normally carry out collection operations as an economic activity. They account for 25% of VAT on their services in such a way as to charge the service double. And the fact that they charge the legal person a favor, as well as the citizens, is the price of 17 and of the citizens of 17 kuna 24 plus VAT. What I want to warn you is that the price indicated is four and a half times more expensive than the price that citizens can pay in FINI. Paragraph 5 of this Tax Act on Road Motor Vehicles says that in the extension of the traffic permit, the condition is proof of payment so that the owner of the vehicle can only hand over the payment certificate, which he made on it in the most favourable way, meaning that the payment could be made via the Internet or through the FINE where there is no compensation. And a road fee according to this proposal only that it will be possible to pay only at the technical inspection station. Therefore, I ask you to amend Article 46(4) to change the way taxes are paid on road motor vehicles so that the payment can be resolved in another way, and not just in the technical inspection stations. Maybe it's a little bit when it comes to 21 kuna and 55 limes, but I'm asking you that there are about a million-and-a-half vehicles in Croatia, this price, and now imagine what the price of the station for the technical examination is, practically, the amount of 30 million kuna. 30 million kunas, dear colleagues and colleagues, I don't think it's a small amount and I don't know if that tax reform helps our citizens of the Republic of Croatia, or whether we're helping individuals, or maybe a certain group, or the owner of a technical inspection station. And that's why I'm asking this House, and the Ministry of Finance, to warn this guy, to look at a little bit more of that road vehicle tax article to really enable our citizens to pay a lower price, not to have to pay 30 million kuna to make individuals rich again. And that's why the HSS Club will surely submit to this its amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20340	Thank you very much for your presentation. There's no replica. We're moving on to individual debates. Gordan Maras, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20341	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'll look back on a few things from a few of these laws. First of all, in the Excise Act. What I am particularly pleased that the promoter has seen here, as of course, and so far the difference and progressiveness associated with luxury or excess money. And those who want to pay more to be taxed more. As far as the car is concerned, we see that there's a cost of 8 percent, ending up at about 30 percent. I say it all together to see that in some parts we use the tax rate or in taxes, and in some parts we go over the flex, i.e. to determine unilaterally one tax class and all pay depending on it. In the car, however, the situation is such that unfortunately we do not follow the very market and that many people buy cars outside Croatia and then import them into Croatia. For example, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, a car that costs a little more than 25 per cent to 30 per cent cheaper than in Croatia, so it would even ask whether the state budget would be more useful to say lower rates than those lower. Why, for example, would someone go to buy a car where there is no excise duty at all or the excise duty is much lower than the Republic of Croatia if our excise duty is 30%, for example, for some small expensive car. The second thing that bothers me is that it mentions it, and it is also related to certain contributions and taxes on road vehicles, which is why in Croatia, and this is a serious issue and would very much help citizens and companies, which is why in Croatia, of course, it is related to some other laws, which is why we have to go to Croatia immediately the first year after we buy the car for a technical examination. So, the factory gives us a guarantee of 3 years you don't have to come or 30 thousand kilometers, but as soon as you buy a car immediately for a technical checkup, pay 500, 700 or 1,000 kuna depending on what the price is, and in this way we de facto burden citizens not only with a waste of time but also with unnecessary money loss. Of course, I'm saying all this because it's connected to road vehicles and, of course, it's connected to other laws, and it should come up with a message to the Home Secretary, to see if it's really mandatory for a man to buy a new motor vehicle to go straight to the technical inspection to see if it's right. So, on this side, a lot of citizens have complaints and a lot of citizens are spending money that I don't think should be spent at all. If we wanted to relieve citizens and companies, we could have done it this way. Also related to the ICCOK, my concern or the sector that has been moving from the Ministry to the IRS, which has done a really big job in the past few years since it was formed, where former Minister Lalovac has been collecting experiences from both American colleagues and today we see even certain arrests, not only arrests but also the prosecution of some cases that have been untouchable for years. Because they were moving in certain circles, being good with political elites, maybe funding their campaigns, but no one could do anything to them. And now, finally, those things are coming for payment. Although such individuals still think that they are above all untouchable and send messages through the public, they mock the state, but I am deeply convinced that the state will drive out its own. That someone who has earned hundreds of millions of euros can't go through tax evasion or ignoring the law or trying to make money, that his trail is not caught or that the state doesn't get what it's supposed to be. And on that side, I have a certain reserve. I think and taught by the experience that the tax administration has acted so far, unfortunately in 2011, it was tens of billions of unpaid taxes that were mostly distributed throughout Croatia and the tax administration chiefs were small gods and they were de facto deciding whether or not they were going to be paid tax or not. I think that the role of this sector in the Ministry of Finance was much stronger when it was directly under the minister rather than now when it would be transferred to the tax administration and in this way I think that his role would be reduced or that he would not have so much, I would say, and visibility, and in some way and influence as he had so far. And on the other hand, I'm going to be a little restrained about this law because I think some things that work well shouldn't change them, and some things that are now changed are at risk of working much worse in the future than they've done so far. So unlike the other laws that I think are much more controversial and that I can't support, I'm a little more restrained here because these are some technical things, some things are simply corrected depending on time, and some things are new solutions that I don't know how it's going to work in the future. And on that side, it's my restraint, but I say we carefully monitor whether the taxpayer who had his own and who had his part and who would pay off very quickly to the state. Just let one of these famous football managers charge 100 million kunas allegedly damaged by a football club, and indirectly so 20 and something million kunas to the state, let it be charged. I think the whole idea has paid off and no one ever thinks about playing with our country, with the tax administration, and all together with all Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20342	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras, for this debate. The following came up for discussion by distinguished counterpart Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20343	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'll look back at this part of the package in a few sentences. Part of it was already mentioned by my colleague Maras, so I won't take time. But I must say, again, this isn't really about any major tax reform. It's a package of half-legal solutions that go into the hands of rich, capital and banks. The largest number of Croatian citizens, over 900,000 employees, will feel nothing. A million and 200 thousand pensioners won't feel a thing. With all these laws, the minimum wage law was to go immediately to ensure that it was 50 percent of the average salary. It was necessary to correct and pay pensioners immediately so that they would be above 40% because they now fell below 40%, below the social minimum. It is regrettable that no proposal has been accepted that came from the catering sector. I will repeat that the VAT rate in catering that was preferential was in fact the only tax regulation that led to all three positive effects on macroeconomic growth and net inflows to the budget, investment growth, employment growth. Today, it was said that it was not necessary to release the reinvested tax profit because it was not a good solution for all those who used it. That was a good solution. We also have a package of laws on local self-government. It's all in the minister's honorable and pioneering words that he'll make up for it. I don't see how she'll make up for it. Therefore, there are many questionnaires, but in this part of the afternoon debate, the biggest questionnaire is related to the functioning of the tax system. Therefore, the minister takes on his back a great responsibility to disrupt the extremely high quality work of the taxpayer USKOK who discovered tax fraud that occurred at the time when it was to be controlled by the tax administration. However, the tax administration did not control this, however, it took part in tax fraud as we see and according to the current indictments that have become legalists in which one of the participants is in tax fraud and the man who worked in the tax administration. In addition, today we can read in the paper that another charge has been filed for a major attempted robbery that happened precisely on the basis of what was done before, but I won't tell anyone from the tax administration that he didn't see, but he didn't want to see it. Its independence, independence and freedom of information leak were one of the cornerstones of the work of the taxpayer. Well, that's what I'm afraid of right now by moving him to the IRS, and I find his efficiency extremely questionable. And I wouldn't be surprised if the announcements of these people who are working now in the tax returns were made now, that they go to some other institutions where their work will be appreciated and appreciated among other things here, I hope Minister Orepic will keep his promise, that he will take all these people into the police USKOK system where then I'm sure he'll be more successful than they're getting ready in the tax administration. And I'll end up with what I said a few days ago, so this reform brings back a smile on the face of various bosses, capital and banks, and especially donors of both HDZ and Kolinda Grabar-Kitarović, various football tycoons, mobsters who, until the taxpayer USKOK began to do this quality, unfortunately rob football clubs, players and, of course, the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20344	I thank my esteemed colleague, Zeljko Jovanovic. We have one replica. Dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20345	Thank you very much, Mr. Jovanovic. You've just told one not great truth, but what's being imposed on itself. If the former finance ministry's sector has been transferred to the tax administration, we will be back to normal since 2011. Remember the Dubai affair when the head of the Zagreb city center tax administration drove the Porsche, traveled on an annual trip with the whole family in Dubai, which is why the affair was called. And he's got a lot of stuff and he's got something that doesn't match his salary. For years. It's been ten years since anyone's had a dispute. That's what people put their heads on. It was probably even a joke there for some employees, see how our boss drives a good car, and he's got a salary of $8000 or $9,000, and he's driving a Porsche, but no one's ever asked a question. And that's why we came to not 11 but 40 or 50 billion kunas of unpaid taxes where the little gods decided who would pay the tax, who wouldn't pay the tax, and thus made it possible to make big money for those who didn't deserve it. And because of that, the role of an independent sector in the Ministry of Finance detached from the tax administration makes much more sense than it makes sense now to return to a system where the de facto director and head of individual county facilities act as one team that will tomorrow be controlled by each other. I don't think that's how it works, and we've shown in history I say, unfortunately, on some negative examples, how much deviation from such a past system has gone through. And that's why I hope the minister is aware of how risky this is and how much can actually happen to go back to the old, and old means tax evasion, non-transparency and bribery.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20346	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras, for the replica. Reply to the replica, distinguished colleague Željko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20347	Yes, colleague Maras, you're absolutely right. I am therefore surprised that Minister Maric decided on this move, which, in this way, gives even more for the rights of various tycoons and managers who robbed both Dinamo and players and the state budget who are crying for political accusations, the settled trials, and Minister Maric points out that this move will carry out the depolitisation by transferring the taxpayer USKOK from the Ministry of Finance to the tax administration. This offended people who worked hard 24 hours a day to find a billion kunas who tried to rob the state budget through tax fraud. So, they worked professionally, independently, and he's talking about some kind of depoliticality. This is politicizing for me now.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20348	I thank my esteemed colleague, Zeljko Jovanovic, for his reply to the replica. This is what we've exhausted all the replicas in this debate. The following came up for discussion by distinguished counterpart Branimir Bunjac. He's not present. Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Mr Zdravko Maric, the finance minister, applied. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20349	Thank you very much, Mr. Supporter of the Croatian Assembly. I have to find out this time that I'm very glad that we have an attorney more than we have an attorney, if I'm counting right. And the same number? It's nice to meet you. Anyway, thank you all very much. Here's to the end of today's two-block debate. In the morning, that is, in the afternoon when we finished the first block of value added tax and profit tax, I didn't answer. Now I'm going to try to unite it all together. I think we've had another very high-quality and constructive day in terms of comments and discussions that we've heard in the form of clubs and individual debates. Now, the MPs have left, but it doesn't matter this last topic that we've been conducting, I think that, among other things, I can begin with it, and that's just once again an indicator and evidence that there has never really been any speech or words about either lifting or mineding or whatever it is called, certain structural units, but we've simply talked about the organisational scheme, the promotion of the organisational scheme, or, of course, and, if necessary, further and human and intimate strengthening of services, and this is the task of, of course, the Minister of Finance to propose to the Government, and the Government of the Parliament, and ultimately I'm going to repeat a sentence that I've said a while ago, and that's that both of these tax changes, or a package of tax reform or tax regulations that we're proposing, in fact, is one of the basic directions. And the idea is, with the tax discharge of citizens and entrepreneurs, the administrative and procedural discharge of the same, but also the creation of conditions for tax administration and all services, from customs services and other founding units of the Ministry of Finance that they can do their job more effectively and ultimately deliver what is expected of them. You've seen it and we've got it on the table, submitted a few amendments to some suggestions. There are some good definitely suggestions that we'll consider for sure. Of course, the government will show itself about them when there's a vote on them. We're already in this business all the time to take advantage of this opportunity, I won't take all the scheduled 30 minutes, but I have to refer to that part of the debate that we had in the morning, and in part these afternoons. At its meeting yesterday, the government adopted the Guidelines for Budget Making 2017 and certainly calculated the effects and tax reforms, i.e. it assumed that tax reform would be adopted in the Croatian Parliament and entered into force from 1.1.2017. This included a projection of economic growth for 2017. And I know that it will normally be, as was the case in 2016, I would say well-intentioned and positive criticisms, not only from the political sphere but also from the general professional public about the ambition or the unambitiousness of the government. I will repeat again what I said in 2016 that always the Ministry of Finance's position and the Government's budgetary process to go with real projections, to go with even one part more conservative approach because here's 2016 proved to be such a year. Better something and less plan or predict something more conservative, or apply a more conservative approach, and finally, when a better achievement occurs, of course, we all need to be better and more content. I think today's publication to the State Statistics Institute for the 3rd quarter which shows that we have achieved, that Croatia has achieved the highest growth rate in the past eight years. So, last time we had that growth rate back in the 2nd quarter of 2008 and certainly that this tax reform, and all of which I think most of the MPs referred to is that it is certain that the expectations that the government will not only through tax reform but also in other ways facilitate, improve and generally create better positive business climates will stimulate not only economic growth one year but also what we keep saying as important, and that is long-term sustainable economic growth, raising potential growth rates and ultimately, of course creating jobs. Because the topics we've talked about today, regardless of whether we're looking at them from a segment of one or another element of the economy, but we still need to be very clear and open that if we want to solve, and indeed sustainable, of course, demographic recovery and our pension system, and the health system, and I'm not counting on it now, it's certainly one of the main preconditions for this all together and, of course, economic growth and jobs. Yesterday, the government came up with these guidelines. Some of the MPs referred to the total amount. I have to, I won't say correcting, but I do explain some things. Thus, these guidelines envision the growth of the expenditure side of the budget of about 4.7 billion kuna. However, it should be noted that some 950 million kuna is related to European funds or aid that we will plan in a higher amount than 2016. That amount of funds is a deficit neutral. The deficit is neutral for the reason it's, as much as it's withdrawn, it's spent as much of course. Everyone would, of course, like to pull that off and spend it anyway. However, that part should be put aside from that total number. So we are left with 3 billion kunas to increase the cost side of the budget created by the deficit of the state budget. But if we took a closer look at the guidelines then we will see that one part of it, and that will be the subject of certainly our debate tomorrow when we talk about the fourth package on the budgets of units of local and regional self-government, that is, the Income Tax Act under the third package, is to compensate for these measures. So, projected billions, 325 million kunas according to our calculations that next year the income tax difference, that part and effect, can be called the loss of the local self-government budget. But it's not just the only part. So in the directions and in the dilapidated side, we calculated some of the other elements. This is not the subject of today's debate and we do not have to go into details, but surely I can say from pensions, indexing pensions through some service of debts from the previous period or by certain judgments, we always have to count interest, etc. So, I just wanted to explain this once again that this tax reform, all that we're discussing in the context of first reading, second reading, is actually an integral part of those guidelines, and it's going to be included in the 2017 budget as well. And here again, perhaps at the end of this first day of our second reading debate, I must point out here and the personal satisfaction of my entire team of the Ministry of Finance and the Government, which, despite the short deadlines, despite objectively limiting factors, but really squeezed the gas to the board to end all of this together, but we still managed to respect the procedure, or continue to respect the two-reading procedure. We just saw that, so, from first to second reading and through your discussions and through further analysis of existing bill proposals, we've seen from technical, we have technical adjustments to some, and I may not say essential, but some of the little more important comments and things that we've included. Here I repeat again and today's amendments that we have received on the final proposals for these first two packages will be taken into account and I believe that some of them will also be adopted in a profitable way, I hope that it will be acceptable for us to ultimately improve the system of these 15 laws and bring everything together in a way to vote and then, of course, start making sublegal acts and implementing them with 1.1.2017. Here's another thank you. The new eight hours of the tax package debate on those 25, we're going in a good direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20350	I thank the Minister of Finance, Mr. Zdravko Marić, for this closing statement on behalf of the motionary. This is what we've exhausted the debate on these nine points of the agenda. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow I announce a united debate on legislative proposals under points 12 and 13 of the agenda, which are the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions, second reading, P.Z.BR. 19th and final proposal of the Income Tax Act, second reading, P.Z.BR. 23. Resume session is tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. The session was interrupted at 18.05 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-30-0.u20351	The next item is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Act, Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 27. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Expenses Act. Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most votes, 83 for, 2 abstentions and no votes against the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Tax Act.
