ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u17837	Good morning, colleagues and colleagues. Now we're going to proceed with a united debate on a common, yes? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u17838	Dear Vice President, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the IDS, PGS and the List of Rijekas regarding the rating system for small fishermen from the Istra area who is indeed unfair.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u17839	Okay. Dear Giovanni Sponza is looking for a break. Is anyone else looking for a break? Fishermen and others? No, nothing. Then I'll see you at 9.45. It's 9:35 p.m. My colleagues and colleagues will continue to work. On behalf of the IDS, speak to the esteemed representative Giovanni Sponza. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u17841	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I asked for a break on behalf of the IDS Club, the PGS, the List of Rijeka, because we need to look back at the system of criteria and points to use the benefits of not an economic category of small coastal fishing. What I want to point out at the outset is that the existing system of points for small fishermen and from the Istrian County is unfair. The current system of benchmarks based on the provisions of the Small Coastal Fisheries Regulation developed by the Ministry of Agriculture by the specific fisheries administration to a large extent calls for the index of the development of units of local or regional self-government in which small fishermen live and which, in itself, does not determine the social status of fishermen and therefore cannot be a backbone in determining the right to grant privileges. In fact, small fishermen from Istria are mostly persons of older age, it is part of their family tradition and are engaged in fishing for almost a lifetime. These are citizens who are often in an invisible social situation regardless of what they live in a region with a high index of development. The application of the criteria and the score system set out in that Regulation led specifically in 2016 to a total of 3,500 licences issued by the Ministry of All 19 issued to fishermen from the Istrian County. So, it's less than 1% of the total number of licenses issued, specifically 0.6%, which is the number that surprised us, and it's totally unacceptable for us. From the above, it turns out that small fishermen from the Istrian county are discriminated against, we can only say punished because they live in a county that is economically developed. Such a system of points, the issuing of privileges to small fishermen negates the specificities of tradition, leads to an unequal development of different fishing areas in the Republic of Croatia. We believe that the criteria for establishing a ranking list for obtaining benefits should reflect the real social status of each individual fisherman, additional objective and clear criteria for applicants where it would be possible for our fishermen who have traditionally engaged in small fishing for decades to continue. Also, I would like to take a brief look at the current misunderstanding of this problem by the state administration. In the last year, there has been a series of activities towards the resolution ministry and the fisheries administration both by the fishermen themselves, and by the Istrian County, and by the mayors, and by our club of representatives, and through a representative issue that we have referred to to the authorities of the Ministry of Agriculture on this issue. Unfortunately, all these activities have not yet led the Ministry of Agriculture to approach the amendments to the contested Regulation and to the criteria and system of points. Therefore, since we continue to receive comments and requests from our fishermen to address the above issues, I call on the competent in the resolution ministry to revise the criteria, how to score small coastal fishing licenses in order to keep the tradition, the heritage of small coastal fishing and to allow the equal development of all fishing areas in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u17842	Thank you very much. We will now proceed to a united debate on legal proposals under points 12 and 13 of the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions, second reading, P.Z.BR.19 and - Final proposal of the Law on income tax, second reading, P.Z.BR.23. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to you in boxes. These legal proposals will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and their reports were received at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Minister of Finance Zdravko Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20697	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'll start with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions. I must immediately say in relation to the first reading of the amendment and supplement law, it is not significantly changed except in the part of the partial adoption of the observations of the Croatian Parliament's Committee on Legislatives and the deleted obligation of the Ministry of Finance to notify the Government of the Republic of Croatia of the effects of the legislation as the obligation arises from point 7 of the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted at the session held on 3 November 2016. I would, however, take the opportunity to briefly sum up what is most important in the original and so now in this final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions. On the one hand, this is coordinated or proposed to align the minimum monthly base for the calculation of the minimum wage contribution in such a way as to increase the coefficient for the calculation of the minimum monthly base for the calculation of the contribution from 0.35 to 0.38. What is also important to say, therefore, are the exceptions to the obligation to contribute to pensioners and all who create a category of second income whether it is authors or artists. But also, at the same time, we are going to reduce the rate of contributions based on second income and other activities by 50%, which means that the contribution to pension insurance for all will be 10% and the contribution to health insurance is 7 and a half. I'll just remind you of that debate we had in the first reading, that today category so-called. the second income, which is in terms of the total tax income of income tax immediately after income from non-permanent work. So last year some over 800 million kunas were incomed on the basis of another income, that today we have four categories of different accounts of that same second income. So, we have the first category of Croatian citizens who pay pension, health and taxes on the second income, and a full tax tax. Then we have a category of, of course, pensioners who can also earn a second income on top of their pension. They are released at this time of retirement and health, but they pay taxes and taxes in full form. Then we have authors and authors who also do not pay pension and health benefits, and have a 30% reduction in tax and tax base. And then finally we have the fourth category, which includes artists who are also excluded from paying pension and health, and on the tax base, taxes and taxes have a 55% reduction. So the four different categories that you look at in fact, i.e. the fact that the first category on the table of kuna net income pays 99.6 kuna of all additional donations. So once again, pension, health, taxes and taxes while this fourth category actually pays on those same 100 kuna 14 and a half kuna fees. So, with this proposal, we're actually the key change we're making, we're terminating an exemption from pension and health pay. So, everyone's bound to pay on another income pension and health, but for all categories, you're getting re-supplyed, or retirement insurance from 20 goes to 10%, and health from 15 to 7 and a half. There were some other changes we also presented in the first reading, so I'll repeat them. So, the time limit for paying foreign contributions from 8 is moving to 30 days. The basis for determining the obligation of a member of the company’s management shall be laid down. The obligation to report contributions for students and students in practice shall be prescribed by the ministry to reduce the contribution rate for this category of insurance undertakings. As far as the Income Tax Bill is concerned, we also discussed it intensively in the context of the first reading, and, of course, yesterday during the debate in those first two blocks, there were plenty of speeches. I'm also going to repeat here what's really important and what we can say is so much the most sound and essential changes that we're proposing. Therefore, the basic personal deduction for all categories of Croatian citizens, i.e. all taxpayers of income tax, is equated to 3800 kuna. It is prescribed, of course, to determine income as annual income and final income. We explained that, so I'm gonna take another chance. So, in so-called. The annual income shall include income from non-permanent work, independent activity and other income. It shall be determined by way of an annual tax application or by means of a special procedure under official duty. Annual tax rates, therefore, apply from 24% to the annual tax base of 210 thousand kuna, which is in translation at the monthly level of 17 and a half thousand kuna, and 36% on the annual tax base above 210 thousand kuna. The difference in accounting, i.e. yearly tax payments, is only for those taxpayers who earn monthly income above 21300 kuna, i.e. the difference in account or reduction for those who demand the use of members who do not have a PK card. Exceptional receipts based on the second income to the height of the five-fold base, with the basis of a personal deduction are taxed only at an annual rate of 24%. It is the category that recognises between other EU countries and legislation, so-called. The category of small jobs or smaller jobs should be called so in some free translation, so that the part for our citizens who make such less income does not have to enter into the total annual account. On the other hand, we have the category of final income, which is income from assets, property rights, capital and insurance. On the basis of the final income, there is no possibility of using a personal deduction as well as the possibility of making an annual tax application, but the tax is paid at a rate of 12% increased for the tax and that is finally taxing. We have made it clear from the first reading of this section that the said rule is for simplicity. But if someone wants a personal deduction, they have to run business books. So the obligor himself can choose from one side we can say such simplicity in relation to determining income. For pensioners and taxpayers from assisted areas and areas of the city of Vukovar, income tax is charged at the same rates and tax bases as for all others, but they have a reduction of 50% at the monthly level. The esteemed representative of the Hrelja asked me to, or we talked in the context of the first reading, so I will also take this opportunity since, of course, our pensioners are watching us. So, in order to avoid any confusion, they are practically in this way de facto not changing in terms of the calculation and surely that those categories that are not already retired in tax registries cannot feel further tax discharge because they do not have it as such. While the rest of them, we're talking about some 600 and a few thousand pensioners who feel safe tax tax evasion on income. It is prescribed that taxpayers who carry out the independent activity of catering or trade in income and income tax may pay in a flat-rate manner under other prescribed conditions, as well as an increase in the threshold for determining income in a flat-rate amount up to the amount prescribed for compulsory entry into the value added tax system. I'm just gonna take a little reference here. Yesterday, the esteemed vice president of the Croatian Parliament was among other things when we had a theme, if you remember the profit tax, so we spoke and we said that the tax on profits was reduced by those up to 3 million kunas 12%. He related to the Law on Accounting and the regulation of the categorization of small, micro-mal, medium and large entrepreneurs. If you see in tax legislation, we have tried to connect all these thresholds, so to speak, between different tax forms and, among other things, in this case, when we talk about cobwebs. They directly bind to the threshold of VAT entry, I will repeat that the threshold of entry remains 230 thousand kuna, but according to the law or proposal as we have proposed, as soon as we get the consent of the European Commission, that threshold would go to 300 thousand. 300 thousand is tied to that number of three million as one tenth of a round number that is somehow easier to remember but also easier to calculate in all these other calculations and these three million kunas are also permeated through all tax laws as such. As of 1 January 2018, with children with abstention... members will be considered to be a spouse, parents of a taxpayer, and adult persons whose taxpayer is appointed as guardian under special law. After the debate we held in the context of the first reading and the good comments that you have made as representatives and clubs, and also after the debate at the government level, there are also several amendments or proposals for corrections that we consider to improve, not only technically and nomotechnically but also essential. Therefore, above all, an increased personal deduction of HRK 3,750 for persons receiving a personal disability is recognised. The centre for the abstention of the abstention is increasing from 12.5 to 15 thousand kuna, noting that the censorship does not include donations to money and goods, and is also very important, which is in the context of the overall demographic renewal policy, which will, among other things, not only enter the government through the tax laws package but even stronger with measures from the Ministry of Demography, which is that, for the sake of fostering demographics in the censorship of the abstention member, no guaranteed births and maternity benefits will enter. For the city of Vukovar, the planned relief for carrying out activities is 100%, which is also in line with the Tax on Profit. In the origin of the property, the highest rate provided for by the Income Tax Act is 36%, but it increases by 1.5 times, so de facto we apply in these cases and 54%. For capital gains, the SKDD is prescribed to be a paying agent. What I would also say, and I am sure that it will be today in the context of the debate not only let us call it so, the third block but also the fourth block mainly, which is that I have to repeat what we have been saying since the beginning, because we are talking about income tax income as the original income of the local (regional) and regional self-government units as we have said about the compensatory measures that will be clearly presented and defined as immediately I will say, the transitional solution for 2017 under the Law on the implementation of the budget that will be on your benches for some week and a half days for 2017, and in parallel with this, there will be one provision that says that by the middle of next year we will create an integrated comprehensive and ultimately much simpler and more efficient Law on financing units of local and regional self-government. So for 2017 and you noticed the very guidelines that the estimated amount of over a billion and 300 million kuna in the state budget for compensation of local self-government. I thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20698	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He's the first to be respected representative of Ivan Klarin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20699	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister. Your mathematics is very clever in favour of the state budget. The units of local self-government took a set of two billion kunas, and through compensatory measures you foresee to return 1.3 billion. I must say that the local self-government unit has blacked out no less than 800 million kunas and yet you boast about it. I'm going to ask you a question now, and I think that as finance minister, we should take care of it, not how to put our hand in the pocket of local self-government units, and therefore to a number of citizens who benefit from their municipalities and cities in the Republic of Croatia. Minister, if you're watching Dnevnik, and I believe you're looking as finance minister, all relevant journalists reported yesterday that there are thousands of people from yesterday to next Wednesday that they will leave Croatia, and this is about active labour in the Republic of Croatia. How do you view domestic companies currently looking for 130,000 people in their sector, and you are calmly looking at the government while thousands of working Croats leave our home every week?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20700	Thank you. The respected Finance Minister Zdravko Maric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20701	Thank you very much for your question. So as far as the budget of the unit of local (regional) and regional self-government, I think for the first time or at least as I can remember, we're actually running a transparent communication where we immediately said that when we talk about the comprehensiveness and integrity of tax reform and the immersion in the system of income tax from the first day we're talking about ways to compensate the units of local and regional self-government. I have answered numerous times in this Croatian Assembly many MPs who said they wanted to trust the Minister of Finance when he said that, of course, they are all words, we will see the situation in 2017. I'm telling you that we've predicted in the budget these amounts. You mention my mathematics, there is no one else's mathematics, mathematics is a very exact science, and in that part we said and in the context of the first reading I very clearly defined in which way these measures will be compensated. Therefore, the difference between income from income tax during 2017 and what was achieved in 2016 will be returned and compensated by local and regional self-government units by 15 in the month. Surely, in 2017, we see it as a year in which it is a kind of transitional solution and we have said it very clearly and openly, there was a chance and the possibility that even in a short time we could produce this Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government, but we also agreed in cooperation with the Association of Cities and Countys, i.e. to wait for some time, or to do it all together after a little more detailed analysis. So it won't be safe to suffer local budgets. And this second topic that you said about whether or not I'm sleeping is one question that you have your opinion on. I think that the government has very clearly taken the view that one of the key priorities of our policy and programme is actually demographic renewal, among other things on a long period but also in a short time in terms of this particular topic that we are talking about, which is the eviction of our people, or departures. You yourself spoke in the debate yesterday and criticized as you will today criticise changes in the Income Tax Act and, among other things, these changes and the overall tax package is actually aimed at preserving Croatian citizens and their remainder in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20702	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20703	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, exactly the opposite of people moving out of Croatia do it in principle because they are out of work and you have reduced the income tax less because you have reduced from 25 to 24 and to managers and people who earn tens of thousands of euros you have reduced from 40 to 36. My question to you is how is that when we compete with EU countries Croatia compared to Germany, Austria and Italy where we have banks and shopping centres that work in Croatia, how in Germany, Austria and Italy managers pay more taxes than in Croatia and workers in those countries do not pay 24% of the income tax, but, say, in Germany pay 13.5% of the income tax. But in Germany, managers pay 45% income tax and pay 36% in Croatia. Well, now explain to me, Mr. Minister. How come you introduced a tax system that stimulates managers and workers in Germany? So in Germany, the tax is 13.5% on those who earn a thousand euros or 700, 800 euros a month, in Croatia 24, and on managers who have 10 thousand euros in salary in Germany is 45% and in Croatia 36. A very simple question, why do managers pay more to work in Croatia than in Germany, rather than in Germany, rather than in Croatia? And why, and do you think that's why these workers are essentially moving to Germany because the lower income tax in Germany is on their salaries than in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20704	Thanks will be answered by the respected Zdravko Maric, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20705	Thank you very much, Your Honor, for the question and for the numbers you've shared with us. The international comparison is always relevant and I agree with that approach. Among other things, there is a need to look at countries in the environment and beyond, of course. However, in this topic, that is, the comparison which you have instructed to see whether only taxation in terms of income tax is possible. Of course, there are some other payouts, or gross fees, which are primarily pension and health contributions which are also comparable to other countries and countries in the environment, unfortunately we cannot say that Croatia is fully competitive. And I, as Minister of Finance and as a Croatian citizen, would prefer that we create conditions and preconditions in the budget, above all, so that, among other things, in the area of pension and health insurance, one additional tax exemption could therefore be proposed with these tax changes in the Income Tax Act. So, neither is it any intention, nor is it any idea, you keep mentioning managers. I think that even within your club, I don't think you have much, or at least according to your views, a unique view of what it really says in itself about the complexity of this topic. And I will repeat that this very highest income tax rate, a few months ago when we started working on this tax reform problem, and when in general and in the general public, there was one debate I think was almost a consensus opinion, I can't and won't put anyone in my mouth, but it was actually one of the elements that was recognized as something that made Croatia incomprehensible and mainly from the perspective of not only those people you talk about, top managers who made money yesterday about how you talked 50,000 net and similar but also about those categories that can, in certain companies today and actually today from the perspective of hierarchy are some kind of a million manager, so some middle level of management but they're highly capable, educated, potent people who are at the same time wanted across the EU countries whether we talk about IT experts, engineers, doctors or any other profession that we don't have a relationship with each other. This is among other things the intention of this law to make simple and that category of course an additional argument, not only for staying but also for quality work in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20706	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished MPs Sabine Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20707	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister Marić, I support the intensities of the legislator, i.e. to reduce the contributions and burden on the time spent by students on professional practice, as well as students. We know that for years the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports has problems with the collection of this kind and I will say so in revenue in the budget itself. But what I can't support is the introduction of an additional charge on fees, which means making a fee. We need to be aware of the fact that unfortunately our tax system does not recognise and does not distinguish between authors on the one hand and independent professionals whose other income, i.e. income based on another income, is not another income, but is their only income to ensure their existence. That is why I think this, the obligation to pay pension and health contributions to the delivery of copyright works, that is to say, revenues from the delivery of works of works, works of art, and benefits based on the second income for pensioners, will make it very difficult for many artists, journalists and scientists who actually live in the good work. And I ask you, please, that when we discuss the amendments until then, think a little bit more about how we can see how the situation can be facilitated especially by that group.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20708	Thank you. The respected Zdravko Maric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20709	Thank you, well-respected MPs, both for asking and for commenting. I will also say this way, of course, that we will also think about this topic in this next short time before the final vote, but I can also tell you that we have thought very closely about this topic and looked at what opportunities and options are but there is a fundamental principle which, in this existing legal framework that we have in force today, is still creating a tax and we can say so beyond that, actually, an injustice. Because I'm repeating again as I was saying in the opening, so for the same category of so-called. Another income we have four different types of reckonings with the need to point out again that how problematic it may be for someone to reduce the tax base for authors of 30% and for artists 55% even greater actually a source of injustice or injustice in terms of tax coverage the fact that one is exceptional and the other is not from paying health and pension. So, we tried to find one model that will at the same time not only fiscally sustainable because it is a single segment in the whole story but one of course model that will actually mean justice first of all, so the exemptions from paying pension and health but that we are still going more stimulating towards that category so that, among other things, the level of these contributions of 50% of the existing base is aligned. Therefore, for all those citizens who earn other income in that full form will certainly mean tax discharge while for these others it means the introduction of that obligation to pay pension and health benefits. It is safe to open within them, within the categories of authors or artists of different kinds. There are those who, of course, are at much lower levels and we have discussed this and the Minister of Culture and Minister of Science and my littleness and among other things there will be certain opportunities to be addressed directly from these budgets. But in terms of tax legislation, we really deeply believe that this is a fair solution because we simply have equal treatment for everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20710	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20711	Dear Ministers, the same subject. You also say in the opening statement and now in response that there are 4 categories of people based on payment of contributions based on second income. And what's that bothering you? Well, there were reasons why those four categories were introduced. You remind me of a man who knows Procross like this. It's your Greek mythology character. And it's as if you're in all men's way, you'd have to be 1.74 tall. We shall cut off those who are higher than them, and We shall stretch out those who are lower. It's Procrust working in his bed. But that method is not good. That method is not good for you. You say it's just, you will now, in the interest of justice, come upon painters, sculptors, musicians, journalists, actors who exist are the reasons why this exception was introduced. Because now, with this tax reform of yours, you're going to cut their net revenue. And I don't think these people make that enormous amount of money. That they are often on the verge of existence and they deal with one activity for which you need talent because not everyone can do it. It must be nature, God must make you do it so you can do it, I can't paint it, I can, but what use is my painting? That would be lurking canvas, wasting paint. But this painter who's talented and can't do anything else does it best. But my God, we live in a society where pictures don't sell so well because the whole society isn't rich enough for that. And now, by eliminating the exceptions, you're coming after him. Well, you're not gonna raise a lot of money with that. You say you want to be righteous, but you won't be righteous. You bring to the scene an injustice against people who deal with extraordinary affairs instead of righteousness.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20712	Thank you. The respected Finance Minister Zdravko Maric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20713	Thank you very much, Your Honor, for your questions and your comments as well. So I'm not repeating what I said to the voters, so I still have to say, of course, that tax justice doesn't necessarily mean what you're saying that everyone has to be quiet and those heights and weights and things like that, but in terms of tax treatment, I think we should still pursue such a coverage. Because like you say good for artists, actors and others, we also have other professions of plumbers, auto mechanics can't be everyone. From the perspective of the total tax system in this way we are actually ensuring that no one is exempt from paying but still for these categories which I also agree with what you said couldn't be everyone and that it is certainly one and a natural talent in these people, but it still retains a significant concession for them and it is a reduction of the tax base of 55% which others finally see and do not have. So, in view of all of this, this category has not been corrected from some fiscal effect because if you add up only the second income category of this amendment if you separate from the total tax reform the effect is actually negative on the budget because for all those who make other income, we are actually reducing contributions to pension and health while this second category that we are introducing this obligation remains 50% of the existing liabilities for other incomes. So the net effect is negative for approximately 40 million kuna. So I'm sure we haven't been driven by some kind of fiscal effect, but I repeat myself once again, first of all, to this very element of justice. And if you look also after these proposed changes if the Croatian Parliament votes tomorrow and when these artists come into force, and when we look at their comparison in total contributions compared to other categories of second income, they will continue to pay less taxes in total taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20714	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20715	Thank you, Chairman. Well, what I'd like to say is that next year, 35 billion kuna of debt is going to be recalculated into foreign currency. Where the state, or you as minister, is planning to pay it back when you don't have enough money for current budget expenditures. That's one serious question, that's one serious number. And what you do with these reforms of yours, I don't really know what to call it. You're dealing with crossovers from hollow to empty, whether any thousands will go left or right, whether they'll go kuna up or down. And these billions don't matter to you. And simply the result of this reform that you are suggesting to us as necessary, necessary, and I don't know what kind of essentially will be nothing like any previous reforms that HDZ has been doing, and unfortunately the SDP is also the main cause of our problems in the state is not the very height of income tax or I don't know the copyright fee and what is already the cause of the central bank's role. And you, ladies and gentlemen, have been running away from this for 22 years since '94. And you're actually hiding from that problem, and this problem is going to come down to you and all of us eventually, because we all know that the property of the state is shrinking every day. You are also announcing new sales, and the debt of the long-term state is only growing and we will meet at a time in a gap from which the only way out will be such economic measures as our people have not yet seen and which have not yet experienced and which will be directed falsely by solving themselves as problems, and in fact, the crisis will only deepen and the escape of people from the country will continue and the blocked will not be blocked. So you're not getting rid of anything. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20716	Thank you, dear colleague Pernar. I'd like to ask you all of what you said, of course, is your opinion and you're repeating it as persistently as Caton the Elder. But what you just said has nothing to do with any of these two laws. So please and other colleagues, I know that sometimes a man discusses such financial issues, but let's stick to it. That's why we divided it into four wholes. Let's stick to those laws that are now being discussed, please. Here you are, dear Minister of Finance Zdravko Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20717	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The question and comments of the Vice President that you have given me the floor no matter how you say it yourself is not direct, although of course the subject matter is public debt. Here I think it's good regardless of the subject today, but I think it's good to also be in the Croatian Parliament among other things. I'd say here's the last government in which I participated as Minister of Finance, so this government doesn't hesitate, though. I think it's ours in the end and our obligation to publicly and transparently speak and discuss and present in the end everything that is related because you've been well apostropheeded. 290 billion kuna at the end of last year, public debt. 86.7% of GDP must be one of the most important indicators. My personal view is that this is one of the key macroeconomic priorities. But right on that field, here I'll tell you that in 2016, we're also good at what you are, and I'm sure I've noticed that we've already done activities before to deal with this problem. So, on the one hand, it's certainly a solution to this topic is on economic growth. On the other hand, fiscal consolidation. So, more efficient, more rational use of budgets. And there's an ongoing activation of state property. At the same time and with these existing expenditures, I will point out and repeat that Croatia refused for the first time this year, that is to say, to postpone borrowing in foreign currency precisely for the reason that we have assessed at that time that these are not good conditions for Croatia. And we made an alternative solution. And finally, if you are looking at the rebalancing proposal that we voted here two days ago, that is, you voted on it as expenditure on interest for 2016 compared to the original plan are reduced by 318 million kuna. A good part of this over 100 million kuna only at the annual level came from that decision where we refused relatively expensive and accepted, of course, where and where more favourable funding on the domestic market. With such a policy, or such an approach, but, of course, publicly and transparently and openly to all of us, we will continue and certainly look to 2017 as one very day I would say this to the Minister of Finance in a challenging manner, but at the same time the year in which great opportunities are opened through the reprogramming and re-financing of this debt not only to make it go away, but to take advantage of the possibility of world, financial markets and our efforts in public finances that this debt actually, i.e. the price of that debt, is reduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20718	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20719	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. Income tax, income tax changes are always of course the biggest debates in that part of local self-government. I have to say that I repeat here and I'll repeat, I'm going to ask you to give a little further explanation to get a complete picture of what's been going on for a long time what's going to happen to local self-government. Because I think this is the first time I've followed it, and I've followed it for many years, that local self-government by the Ministry of Finance in amendments to the law that directly affects the incomes of local self-government shows very clearly and gives an answer where these funds will settle and the answer is that a transitional period is coming where movements will be monitored. And after that, a law will be passed that will finally be settled permanently. So, we witnessed not so long ago when the laws were changed, and the Income Tax Act that local self-government was then stolen also a lot of money, that local self-government was also taken from other levels, let's say from the funds for the county road administration and that no one accepted the ear or gave any answer. So I ask you once again to give another little explanation because a lot of this confusion is causing all the sources to settle down and two billion for local self-government plus this billion and three hundred that you plan in the balancing budget. And as for the reduction in income tax rates for these categories of best-paid people. Who are these people? These are our best, best-quality people running out on us. And I would personally reduce the rate by one group and that for doctors because everything is good while we're healthy, and then when we have to go to the doctor, then there's a problem. And they leave us the most.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20720	Thank you. The respected Finance Minister Zdravko Maric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20721	I thank the esteemed also for the question and for the comment. I'll refer briefly to this second part of yours. I think that in this assembly too many of us will tell me in Croatia that, at the level of the state sector and structure, so also at the level of the economy, one of the things that we can certainly fix is actually the governing part. And if we're talking about governance and more efficient management of all our assets and businesses, you must certainly have adequate and high-quality people for that, and ultimately, among other things, you must have a fee for this job. If I were to go back to your original question, as I said, I am sure that today we will talk a lot about this subject a lot, I would not, as you yourself have noticed, not like I do not like to go back into the past and talk and compare to previous situations and changes, but again I repeat for our case from the very beginning we have said very clearly how and in what way. So in 2017 it goes as one transitional solution, this billion 325 million provided for in the guidelines is from the division of the state budget, or the Ministry of Finance, which will be paid to units of local and regional self-government as the difference between income from income tax and that achieved in 2016. At the same time, that category or programme or activities related to assistance for local and regional self-government units shall be retained at the division of the Ministry of Finance. You know well that there are at least four criteria that are used in this distribution, here and within the rebalancing framework you know that we increased that amount by some 20 million kuna aimed at the counties, and partly for cities and municipalities in those mountain-mounted areas which, due to different categorizations in 2015, fell out of the category of assisted areas. And the third part is, of course, the part for decentralised functions, the part that will also remain to be directed from the state budget to the units of local and regional self-government. He will go from the division of those ministries that are somehow competent, so if we talk about education he will go part from the Ministry of Science and Education or if we talk about health care he will go from the Ministry of Health. So very simple, and at the same time very transparent. Today, when we draw up a comprehensive law on financing, this part of the aid goes to centralisation and remains the same, while this part will be fully regulated to make income tax revenue the original and final income of the unit of local and regional self-government the ratio of approximately 80:20. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20722	Thank you. That's how we ended up replicating this opening exhibit. Are the committee's reporters now going to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. For the first debate on behalf of the Representatives' Club, distinguished representative Ivan Lovrinovic appeared. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. The next one will speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the time will be shared by the distinguished Greek representative and the distinguished representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20723	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. Here is income tax one of the most important topics in this reform and of course I will now try to sum up this debate in the last ten days about this law. First of all, about the Income Tax Act and trying to define some of the key objections that we as a club have. So first of all, we are not satisfied with how this income tax reform affects income distribution. So what's going to happen, and we've already mentioned about 2, 2.5% of the employees are going to profit seriously from this reform, as defined. It's the people who have the highest salary, so they pay more than 15 thousand kuna, they're only 30,000 out of somewhere million taxpayers on income and they're really going to feel this progressive salary growth of up to six, seven, and more thousands of kuna a month. Everyone below will have minimum pay corrections, between about 50 and 350 kuna, which is really negligible. So what we have done with the previous reform specifically for the middle class and where wages have grown significantly more, is now reduced to about 200 to 300 kuna of wage growth in that category where there is indeed an important number of people. What appears as a cause of such distribution is avoiding progressive taxation, meaning simplifying the system. We're now coming to only two rates of taxation, we're heading towards some flat... so one foot. Probably in the future some rate of 20, 24% for everything that we as Social Democrats can't support. We are always on the principle that one who has less needs to be helped and that less tax pay relatively, so absolutely it is less, but relatively, and that one who has more salaries and absolutely and relatively more taxes and that is the key principle that we stick to and try and try to keep it in the last round of that income tax reform. What is also the fact that the cost of this reform is estimated at approximately two billion kunas is largely paid from the state budget, let's not forget that, I would especially like to stress this through these compensations that the minister was now talking about, so the state will pay the units of local self-government what they are losing. Why does it matter? So because the question is whether it's the top priority of the state and the state budget at this point to compensate for growth, serious wage growth by 2% of the richest people in the country or those who have the highest incomes, I'm not going to say the richest, but those who have the highest incomes. Were there any other priorities? Could the priority be to correct one-time pensions in a way that the average pension does not fall below 40% of the average net salary, I think it was a much higher priority than this. So if you're already giving out of the state budget money then it would be very important to point that money to the most needed and the pensioners, so most of them are, I would do it. Why? Because already with our reform, the pensioners remained in the deficit. So the gap between the average pension and the average net salary has increased, and somehow it needs to be closed, that gap, that trunk needs to be closed. One of the reasons is the indexation based on a minus price growth rate, so on deflation, so that indexation was only 0.3, 0.4% in the last year. We even had to rebalance some 60, 70 million kunas that were otherwise intended for pensioners and re-designed for another purpose because the indexation rates were too low. Look how serious a trap it is. It is therefore necessary to set priorities in a different way and what we would certainly do is to support those most needed at this point, and most of what I say to the pensioners is. Another aspect that we resent is the fact that through this reform the regional component of the impact of income tax is completely lost. Two key arguments. First, according to what we heard in the debate, it is planned that the new distribution of income income from income tax will be in a way that 80% will go to local self-government units and 20% to regions. But no matter how much these units have been developed so far, this differentiation has been serious so that the units developed had a relatively lower share, so somewhere around 50% to 60% in income tax and these underdeveloped ones had over 80 and the latest changes that we made 88%. So the simple division was, 88% for local self-government units and 12% for counties in those areas. And that's a very serious number, it's somewhere around 270 units of local self-government total. Now you delete that difference and everyone will have the same thing. I expect that a certain correction will be made in the drafting of the Law on the financing of units of local self-government and that it will be made in a way that sees this difference between developed and undeveloped. The second aspect, too, eliminates the full pay gap in assisted areas and in all other developed areas. So by equating a personal deduction to 3800 kuna which, however, is slightly larger than the previous deduction in those areas. Therefore, a kuna can bring such wages. However, there will be no difference in the salary of teachers, teachers, doctors, etc. who works in Split compared to, say, Knin, or in Zagreb compared to Petrinja or Osijek compared to Beli Manastir. And so far, that difference has existed, and in this way it has been motivated and stimulated by those highly educated people to go there to work, to help, to keep that area in a way with quality social and every other infrastructure. It's a very serious matter and it should also be taken into account. So what's now going to be a motivator is that someone who's graduated college doesn't know in Split goes 100 or 150, 200 km from their house to work, who's going to make him if he doesn't have some extra stimulant he's had so far. And of course I can't get around this subject that's already been in replicas this morning, this is a matter of taxation of second income. What's it important to say? Another income yes, but there are categories of people who are the only people who are not the other income. And that's exactly what's mentioned, artists, culturalists and even journalists and part-timers so-called. etc., etc., which of course loses because... It reduces that 30% deduction before the taxation that was and on the other hand contributions are introduced, it doesn't matter 50% of the regular rate but they are introduced. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the additional burden and elimination of the relief before tax. Therefore, their work will become important, important to all those who hire them, and these are people who have an authorial work, there is no dilemma there, unlike perhaps some things in science where some work can be interpreted in one way or another. And it's an author's work and it's not, is it, and there's always some dilemmas, but there's no dilemma here. If someone writes an article in an authorial fashion, it's an authorial work. If someone paints a picture then it's an author's work, if someone creates a new composition, then it's an author's work. And that's where that differentiation should be anyway. So to conclude, there are a lot of people who will be dissatisfied with this reform. Unfortunately, but that's the way it is. And that's why here and through some of the amendments that we're going to make in these two days I'd ask the government to take another good look at it and maybe make some concessions. Thank you very much. Here's my colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20724	Gordan Maras. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20725	Thank you very much. A colleague of Greece initially said the fundamental objections to this law and I will repeat one and the most important that our citizens hear one more time, and that is that only 2% of people in the Republic of Croatia will feel more important about these changes, and that story that everyone is growing in income, income, wages simply doesn't stand. Retired people will not benefit from this, 98% of RS employees will have minimal or no benefit, 50% of them will not benefit at all and only 2% of people will benefit from this. And basically that's where MOST and HDZ return to their voters and those who matter only to those who have the most. And that's not what I said on the side, that's what Professor Vladimir Gligorov said in his review critical of this reform where he said HDZ and MOST are returning to their voters and that's what they have most in the Republic of Croatia. So all pensioners who are looking at us here today in direct transmission must be aware that MOST and HDZ are not taking care of them, must be aware that the minimum wage issue has not even been opened. If MOST and HDZ were not interested in minimum wage, then the Minimum Payment Act would be on the agenda and would raise the minimum wage to 50% of the average salary in the Republic of Croatia. If MOST and HDZ weren't interested in their pensions because otherwise they would have made sure that it was 40% of the average pension compared to the average salary that doesn't account for, they made sure that 2% of the people in the Republic of Croatia were 1,000, 2000, 5000 or 10,000 kuna more per month and therefore they say that's why they paid more. Now, ladies and gentlemen, look at the analysis, because we have a lot of banks and malls, companies in the Republic of Croatia, an analysis between Italy, Austria and Croatia and Germany. So the biggest tax, the highest tax, the highest... in Austria is 50%, in Germany 45%, in Italy 43%. When you compare it with the Republic of Croatia translated into the simplest possible dictionary manager in a bank in Croatia, i.e. the Italian bank, pays less taxes in Italy than is paid by his fellow management president in Croatia. But the one who works on the counter or the one who has high professional equipment and works as an employee of that bank pays a bigger tax. Because in Austria the tax is, for example, 1200, 1300 euros 21%, in Germany up to 700 euros you pay nothing at all, in Italy there is 23%. So again translated into what people can understand the simplest. This government MOST and HDZ have made it possible to pay less taxes in Croatia than in Italy, Austria and Germany and workers working in these same banks and shopping centres are allowed to pay more taxes than in Italy, Austria and Germany. How is that just? Which is why it did not go to those salaries of people we want to keep in Croatia not to 24% but to 20% or 18%, because MOST and HDZ do not matter. They care about those who pay back for what they've given in the elections, so they didn't get any other party but HDZ 7.2 million kuna donations. So why are they doing it now? To give them back, they simply return to their population and people must be aware of HDZ and MOST are not important pensioners who have 1,000 euros or 7,000 kuna salaries, they care about those who have 50 and 60 thousand kuna salaries. They respond to their interest groups very easily. See just why the minimum wage didn't come expressly to the Parliament's agenda? Why doesn't that matter? Hundreds of thousands of Croatian citizens receive minimum wage and they did not want to raise a minimum wage for 250 kuna or 500 kuna, but you went to these express wages for 50, which have 50,000 kuna per month. What makes these priorities more important to you than these hundreds of thousands of Croatian citizens who have minimum salaries? That's the real question, why the pensioners don't matter to you who's watching us here today over a million, they won't feel anything of this. As far as costs are concerned, the cost does not exist since GDP growth of 3% next year will lead to an increase in revenues in the state budget so that all these stories, compensations from budgets do not hold water, all of this salary or this relaxation of income pays for economic growth, GDP growth that will be higher next year. On the other hand, let me get this straight. HDZ and MOST are not employees and pensioners, but those most in the Republic of Croatia. That's what's important and that's what's important to hear our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20726	Thank you. We have a total of five replicas. It is the right of a respected representative, Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20727	A fellow Greek, there is one saying: "Last mind is always the best of minds." However, from your debate that they have listened to, it turns out that there are two brains, one when you are in power and the other when you are not in power. I'm saying this for a reason because I was personally present here in a meeting room with a heated debate between you and our representative Mr. Shucker when you're making a pay increase for those who receive more reasons to increase their incomes to young, educated people so as to prevent them from leaving our country. Also in the heated debate that was being held here and related to the removal of the status of mountain-mountan area on municipalities and towns of Gorski Kotar, we remember their protest here on Mark's square, you did not want to accept all the arguments that were made in support of the development index and method of calculating the development index for these municipalities and cities, and even the mayor of the Primorje-Gorski who was trying to influence you from your worldview to accept these facts. The municipalities and cities are left without me thinking 57 million kuna. At the same time, you have announced some compensatory measures here, and whenever the authorities mention it, believe that the leaders of the local self-government unit when they mention the aid from the state budget or the compensatory measures raise their hair on their heads. You kept defending it here. And then after all the pressures went to how the municipalities of Gorski kotar would be helped again you passed a law that did not go to the burden of the state budget but rather to the burden of the county budget. So when we talk about the position of government on your part and when we talk about the position of opposition on your part, rhetoric is not the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20728	Thank you. The esteemed representative Branko Grcic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20729	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I have shown for the last time the line of reform of the SDP and this reform and its effects on the salary. So, that's something I don't know if he can't show it right now. But it is very clear that our reform had the greatest impact on the middle layer. These are wages moderate, like normal wages. Why? Because now the average salary in Croatia is too low, and these salaries are just about there for life in Croatia, normal. And that's when the pay went up. And then everything behind it was limited to 1,000 kuna growth, so one straight line. That's what I'm talking about. This reform brings one hair line that grows explosively after 15000 kuna net. That's what we can't agree on. So, what my colleague Maras was saying. So someone who has 60,000 kunas now pays him a 10% increase, means 6,000 kunas. And 6000 kuna is more than the average salary in Croatia. So someone's going to get paid more than someone on average gets in Croatia. Now that's something we can't handle. And that's how our amendment will be, you'll see. And secondly, what you just said about the index is always the same story. So, the development index. We have not abolished regional policy, and these tax measures now abolish regional policy in both the profit tax system and the income tax system. You'll see, any change in the development index will produce the same reaction. The last time I said it here, because every change and one single parameter in the index means that 10 or 20 or 30 units will fall out of the system and will be very loud, and the other 30 will enter the system and not say a word because they will be very pleased. In our reform, a hundred entered the system and tortured, said nothing, and 60 turned out to be very loud. That's the difference, you know.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20730	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20731	Thank you very much. A fellow Greek, like counterpart Klaric, I ask the question because income tax has been changed by you, income tax changes by us. More or less similar are relationships, but there are different reasons. I remember then, here's a colleague of Lalovac's speaking for himself, i.e. as minister and on the clear question why the lowest minimum increase he said was very clear. We've scattered them all the way and they can't do it anymore. And then he gave examples. Here's an example, those with a salary of 3800, 3900 kuna then paid 94 kuna. Under the new law you've passed, they'll pay only 13 kuna. And then I'd add because I can't anymore. He thus cited an example of salary from 5500 kuna to 7000, with only 168 kuna increasing as it is no longer possible. And of course, even then the highest wages were a lot more than now. When you spoke and said why to the local self-government, you said a few reasons why you take a billion and 800 million kunas with the promise to return through the compensation fund. The first reason was, the number of employees in local self-government increased by 7,000 from 2009 to 2014. They keep increasing consumption. The second reason was in the first 6 months of 2014 because we discussed it in 11 months 2014 plus 1 billion kuna. Let them leave part of their income to the citizens. That was your attitude. Salaries in local self-government are 30% higher than government salaries, i.e. he pays civil servants. And the fourth reason was that local self-government should be financed exclusively from property taxes. Those were your attitudes. We're listening to you today. Turns out your attitudes aren't worth it anymore. I think we've been correct. The minister said through the budget we'll put the article back to local self-government a billion and 300 million until we can solve the funding issue. I don't think a little correctness, but it wouldn't hurt credibility either.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20732	Thank you. The esteemed representative Branko Brcic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20733	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So continue the story. As far as this first part of yours is concerned, I didn't say in any word that it was possible to increase this minimum wage reform. Isn't that what I didn't say? I said something else, that the money that you are now going to give from the state budget indirectly through the units of local self-government to the most paid people in the country might have had to think differently strategically and direct it towards the most vulnerable groups, and that's the only way that's possible for the pensioners. Not to the least-paid employees, but to the pensioners. This country can intervene and I stand firm and there is no politicizing there. So in the last two years, the pension has fallen below 40% of the average net salary, so you say, explain to the pensioners how to live from 2100,200 kuna. You explain that to them. So, I'm in favour of these two billion being able to make this correction and to place anchors, I've already said that once here, an additional anchor with an indexation of pensions that will never again allow pensions to fall below 40% of the average salary. As for this other question, so thank you for giving me a few more seconds to explain. Therefore, despite the fact that the majority of mountain-mounted areas in the development index fell out of the support system. We have partly returned these support, and in part we haven't had time to implement the laws that should have done so. So, first we increased their share of income tax, that's what you voted here with us. Second, the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget provides for a minimum of 40 million kuna, meaning 40 plus for mountainous and mountainous areas and thirdly, an increase in forest contribution as the direct income of those units of local self-government. These last two things you or your previous government didn't want to do, that's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20734	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20735	I thank you, Vice President. In the government where you were a colleague of the Greek vice president, it became an exception from paying contributions to the fees on copyright works. Now we're going with the amendment to keep it and that's proof that there's no subsequent mind. Smartness is always the same because you are then, and today you feel that these people must be exempt from paying their contributions. Why? Well, because that's the most common thing you've said to them in your presentation is the only income. The painter, see if he doesn't work if he doesn't teach art at school, where is he employed? Nowhere, he paints in his studio and a sold painting is his only income. It's no other income to him. It's the only income. How many of these artists are there in the first place? A small number. They're irrelevant to fiscus. Look, on the other hand, anyone can be a parliamentary representative that can really be anyone, but not everyone can be a painter, not everyone can be a writer, not everyone can be an actor. Your government understood that it was a special category of people. We heard from the minister that the effect of this on the fiscus is negative, so now we have double damage. Em will suffer the artists, em will suffer the fiscus. They say it is wise to combine pleasantly with useful ones, and the minister connects them with the useless.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20736	Thank you. The esteemed representative Branko Grcic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20737	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I would try to explain this in a different way now. So the basic idea is to simplify the tax system and to erase all these reliefs that exist objectively in the system were those for artists, fees, these, those, regional development etc., etc. I disagree deeply with that. In the period in which all is informed and electrified, and accounts of these or those benefits and revenue collection, etc., etc. There is no need to simplify this type of simplification of the system that will hit serious social groups that do not deserve this in any way, including culturalists, artists, journalists and less developed areas and citizens living in these areas, etc., etc. There's a mistake. Here just before my colleague Maras called his colleagues from MOST they are in some way, I understand them as fighters for some kind of justice social and every other one together with us and there we seem to be closer to the coalition in which they are and I ask them this way to pay attention to this aspect of this reform and to the election of these laws and to the very offers of certain amendments that will solve these problems that we mentioned today because believe me this is not politicizing. This is not politicizing, these are serious things that go to harm I would say special groups and those more vulnerable groups of citizens in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20738	Thank you. And now the replicas of the presentation of the esteemed representative Maras have first respected representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20739	Thank you, Vice President. In your part of the debate, you have actually forgotten to say the key message that this is not a complete reform at all but partial legal solutions that benefit the rich, capital and bankers, while the majority of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are 900 thousand employees, millions and 200 thousand pensioners will in no way feel the well-being of this whole legislative package. So if the minister wanted this to be a full reform and to benefit all Croatian citizens then the minimum wage law would go along with this package, a package would go to ensure that pensioners are not less than 40%. This is a package that brings back a smile to the face of donors, bankers, capitalists and different bosses.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20740	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Gordan Maras will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20741	Thank you very much. I've been known to my colleague Jovanovic over the past few weeks to be called exactly by that group, so there's an interest in this group. They don't care about the pensioners or the ones with the lowest salaries, or the wholeness and better life of most Croatian citizens, but it is important for them to charge themselves. And that's why they discovered wisdom as if a guy was better off paying a smaller tax, so everyone knows it. Well, I'm not against tax cuts for entrepreneurs or for those who earn more, but at the same time I am against the fact that this goes to the budget burden, without, for example, the burden of the budget not going to the question of pensioners and the average pensions of 40%. So we don't hear a word of it, we don't hear a word about a minimum wage. But once again I call on the minister to explain here why the Austrian bank banker is more paid to work in Croatia than in Austria, where is his tax 50%? Tell us, why did you make such a model that it is more worth working in Croatia than in Austria for the same salary here? If there are 10,000 euros here, it is worth more to him to work in Croatia than in Austria, Germany, too, in Italy. But their employees are no longer paid to work in Croatia than Austria. In Austria, taxes are taxed, and in Germany taxes are lower than in Croatia. We have a total inversion, higher taxes on lower wages and lower taxes on higher wages. And what you said was that it was a counter-service to an interested group that supported HDZ and MOST, it's absolutely like that, I'm not saying it, it's what respected economists who do it in their analysis.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20742	Thank you very much, colleague Maras, you should have responded to your colleagues Jovanovic and you reiterated your enquiries and your criticisms to the minister. Therefore, please, we communicate in the manner envisaged by the Rules of Procedure. The replica of your presentation has also come from the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20743	Thank you, Vice President. Here's my colleague Maras, you said this tax reform was a repayment to the MOST donors. If you're used to working in a certain way, I'd warn you that you don't repaint that model to MOST. We didn't have a donor in this campaign at all because we didn't take donations, so we don't have anyone to repay the debt. Perhaps you are so used to functioning and probably you worked in the past government, I would remind you that today you are trying to remove the immunity of our parliamentary representative Davor Romic, former minister because he refused to pay off the meaning of the incentive your Minister Jakovina is probably because he wanted to please some of whom he had interest and benefits, so our Minister Romic refused to do so and now you are suing him and asking him to remove his immunity. And we know what your Minister Jakovina did with the incentives and who he shot, precisely those tycoons you and your colleague Jovanovic are talking about. MOST has never done this, nor will it work, I would ask you not to call us because we have not received any kuna donations.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20744	Thank you very much. The Honorable Representative Gordan Maras will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20745	Thank you very much. In my debate, I mentioned HDZ, their donors. ... And MOST I mentioned in that you support them in their intention to return the service to their stakeholders and that is a very simple definition. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So HDZ returns, so look who's defending this tax reform, HUB, HUB, HGK, groups, I think it's clear, the people who are watching us see what's going on. And once again, explain to me if the minister can't, why the banker in Italy, Austria and Germany pay more taxes for the same salary than in Croatia? And at the same time, the worker pays more taxes in Croatia than in Austria, Italy and Germany? Is that logical? Well, I'm not against it, Mr. Grmoya, getting rid of people paying taxes, especially this salary of 7, 8, 9 thousand kunas of people with high expertise. I'll raise my hand to make it 20%, but I'm against people who have the most, and the team is coming back. I don't want to be incorrect to Minister Maric and say probably what most people think, so he came from that circle. It's simply such a circle of people who have salaries of 50, 60, 70,000 kuna and this way get 6, 7, 8 thousand kuna per month. But where are the pensioners? Where's the minimum wage? You have a hundred thousand people in Croatia on minimum wage, so what about them are we thinking about? Why is there no law on the agenda? Who's going to say a word about them? But we're talking about these 10, 15 thousand people who have 30, 40, 50, 60 thousand kuna. And then now somebody's gonna tell me so they're paying more. Well, I know they pay more, so we didn't make it up. Look at Austria, Germany, Austria, France, all those countries with a much longer democracy than Croatia and tax systems from Croatia have a progressive tax rate, so it is not a crime to say that you want to, that one who has more pay. This can only be exposed to an interested group by the HUP or the HGK or these few good analysts who live fat on it by bankers and then start making fun of it as it is that more taxes are paid. I'm not the one paying more taxes. I am that taxes are fair and what is done now is not fair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20746	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, HSU, will now speak to the distinguished representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go. reiner
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20747	Dear Mr. Vice President, respected ministers with an associate, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. So what can be said about tax reform in part of the final bill on income tax and changes and additions to the Law on Contributions and is that this tax reform in that part of the ugly for most Croatian citizens or finer said by the Dubrovnik group, especially for workers with lower salaries and for a million 165 thousand pensioners. A million 165 thousand pensioners will not have any movement in their incomes, although they will likely be costs due to this substituting of income tax losses to local self-government will likely increase some services and their standard will certainly fall. It will not be as it was announced, there will be no damage to how much VAT on bread, milk and medicine has been suggested, but it is certain that the million 165 thousand pensioners will suffer damage. I do not see the pleasure of living in Croatia in those workers who work in shopping centres and who will receive a raise of as much as 30 to 50 kuna with this reform. They'll still work 10 hours and they'll have 8 hours paid. Profits based on unpaid work will continue to be compressed in Croatia. I think these are the problems to be dealt with by this state and the ministry. Secondly, this tax reform is elitist and it can't be at all, it can be even more elitist if we have one tax rate. With two rates, two tax rates is elitist and is not socially fair, it is not in line with the constitutional principles of social justice that those who can pay more, and those who have less to do, and that is the obligation of the Ministry of Finance and the Government to redistribute in favour of those who do not. The minister has the right to say, and we've faced some thoughts, he has the right to say that the fight against poverty cannot be won through the tax system in the pension system. I agree with him on this, but how to win the fight against poverty and 40% of pensioners have fewer incomes than the censors that release them from supplementary health insurance or 17% of the total Croatian citizens have fewer incomes. How do we win the fight against poverty and how do we even start it if we give and give reliefs or relaxes in Croatia those who have the highest wages and the highest pensions? How to fight when we've spent it and given it to those who already have. We were more solid during the war in Croatia, taking care of all Croatian citizens. Today we give to those who have. But you'll see through the discussion, and I have an individual debate in several ways has been given not only this tax relief. People with the highest salary in Croatia can make more payments. So whoever has 100 thousand kunas gross 1 salary, pays 20 thousand kuna contributions for retirement but can pay a maximum of 9.5 grand, 11 grand is waiting for him every month. At the end of the year, he made a request for more payments, received, so far taxes are paid at a rate of 45%, the rest is net. Did we have to give this same man another $4,5,000 more, more net income, besides having them here? Or would these people who are just so lucky to work on such jobs be in the pharmaceutical industry, whether in banks, be in telecommunications firms, could they be happier to pay contributions from which at least 5.6 modest pensions are then alimated? Either we have to, or it's coming back to them, or it's got to come back, or can we put it down? I've been fighting this thing since 2003, and I've been leaving this assembly room on many occasions because of all governments' attitudes. Our government didn't have feelings either, but I don't think the moment we live in allows us to have this kind of elitist approach. He just won't allow it. Of course, in addition to criticising our right and the obligation of the MPs to now, when we can respond to all the articles of the law, give suggestions, through amendments that can be improved, and I will give on behalf of the club of HNS and HSU one-five-six amendments for which, for one, I claim to be provocative. Why? Because it reflects my attitude towards tax rates and I think that we should continue to increase the untaxable amount of pension and keep three tax rates because the previous government, the coalition government of Kukuriku coalition, has freed three tax rates or given pensioners in increasing the untaxable amount from 3400 to 3800, 130 million kuna per year, which ended in pensioner pockets. We should've kept doing that. I know this is not possible with this two-stage tax reform because it turns out to be too expensive, but I want this amendment to be discussed and that the government is discussing this amendment because what we are doing today is a derogation from Croatian practice and European practice because in all countries, the untaxable amounts of pension are far greater than the untaxable amount of salaries, and this is because pensioners through their working lives have been charged with contributions and because they are no longer able to earn anything on the side and do not have any tax reliefs held in this table in our bill of law do not have three, four or five children on support. Therefore, simply because of such situations in all European countries, the untaxable amounts of pensions are higher than the untaxable amounts of salaries. At the beginning of our country there were three times more untaxable basics for pensioners compared to workers' salaries, now the difference is 1200 kuna and according to this proposal are the untaxable bases of the same, exactly the same. I would also like to comment on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions. Here I finally in this assembly deserved almost one page of the responder's response to my comments from the previous reading. I'm honored but I'm very unhappy with what it says here. I asked to be told and explained the competitiveness of the pensioners or the work of the pensioners under the contract of work in relation to the employment of young workers. It is pointed out here that we are competition and that we take young jobs. Now, thank you to the Ministry. They gave me the exact information for 2015. In 2015, 26162 pensioners made second income by which they were exempt from payment of contributions. You know what that number is compared to the number of the insurance company? It's smaller than a statistical error. 1.86% of all insurance workers were pensioners through a contract on the part of the occasional job. Even if we went to analyze what jobs they were doing, a small number were a consultant in some of their former firms, a small number were secretary and secretary by various associations and most were in cleaning business. And now, we've had a lot of trouble with that, and now we have to get them to pay 10% of the pension insurance contributions, and then after every year, for about 20 kuna, a new amount of pension will have to be accounted for because they will exercise the right to do so. But basically we collect the work of the pensioners, of course and 7%, 7 and a half percent of the health contributions will have to be paid by contract of work for the pensioners. The second remark, or second answer, is the wrong answer given to me by the Ministry of Finance. In my first reading debate, I mentioned people who have been paying 3% of health contributions since 2008, which I personally consider to be double taxation, that we have 30,000 only victims who pay additional health insurance at 3%. We've got 30,000. ... What? [[You can't hear it.]] Yeah. I'm sorry, it's not extra. It's basic security. Additional contribution, thank you for the correction. Additional contribution for health insurance of 3%. I once suggested to the actuator that they should at least be free of payment of the supplementary health insurance policy, i.e. that from these means their country at least in some way reward the milk cow with free supplementary health insurance because they could serve for the same purpose. Here in response to the ministry, it said that the abolition of this obligation would be a reduction of revenues to the Croatian Health Insurance Institute by around 425 million kuna. And I'm telling you it's completely wrong, that this is six and a half times more than it's real. The real amount we calculated in the last government, meant to take it off. The real amount is 70 million kuna a year. I remind you that all defenders, all wartime disabled men, are freed from the payment of contributions, an additional health contribution of 3%. So if you've been swept away by a mistake, if you've put them on then it might be this amount, but it's not like that. It's just not like that. And something I've already talked about, and I've been talking about that return of more paid contributions, which hurts me a lot. Thank you for your information that for 2016 the contribution for pension insurance based on generation solidarity according to all the basics for one year is 578664 kuna. It's a base, or 20% of it. That's about 114 grand the most you can pay for the contribution. In addition, one who pays more to establish a request at the end of the year for the return of more paid contributions, which only those who have 750 who have the highest salary in Croatia can. These are neither the Prime Ministers nor the Ministers, nor the MPs so that our esteemed listeners and viewers don't think we're the users of this. We didn't. But these are the top managers I repeat again in the pharmaceutical industry, the banking, the financial sector, in telecommunications that have such high wages. And I say with this opportunity that I would immediately delete from the Income Tax Act as well as amendments and additions to the Law on Contributions because it is not fair for some to bathe in honey and milk, and some do not have bread in this country. This country does not have such a tradition and deserves more social justice, that is, social justice. I'm saying that this provision is definitely to be a simple crazy provision for a social state, and in addition to such a provision, we're still giving them a raise through this tax system between four and five thousand kunas on those high wages they're getting so far. Therefore, it will be more fortunate when the tax rate is higher, when it is relatively taxed and when, in accordance with the possibilities of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, the tax burden is borne. The HNS and HSU club can't support these bill proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20748	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused a series of replicas. She's the first one to be a respected representative of the Synchie Varge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20749	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Hrelj, here I thank you for your presentation and I am encouraged by your question and solidarity and intergenerational solidarity regarding these tax proposals that we have ahead of us. And that's where I'm going to read it, and I'd like to mention that the minister and all of us here in the Parliament have passed certain sworn words regarding the preservation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And I will read paragraph 2 of Article 51 says: “The tax system is based on the principles of equality and justice. ” Although it is a very unspeakable sentence that can be interpreted of course still comes into question then ideology is at stake, but what we are saying here today is daily life. And when it comes to pensioners and the intergenerational solidarity itself and the question of indexing pensions themselves, we see that this is the intention of these HDZ and MOST governments towards increasing that difference, not in its reduction which de facto constitutional category of duty and us as parliamentary representatives and government itself, so I would like to hear your comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20750	The esteemed representative Silvano Hrelja will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20751	Dear counterpart Varga, of course, that we are creating growing and greater social differences in society with these proposals of this reform, and it is not to be said that, among other things, thanks to the merits and our initiatives of HSU, through various types of indexation, but we have changed the forms of indecation and adapted them to the moment. You know, in 2004, there was a pension indexation of 4% was a strong salary growth, and we caught only a wage increase, and all that time, the average pension was swimming somewhere between 39% and 40%. But this is also due to an addition of 4 to 27% that is embedded in the pension system. And there really is a threat to it, regardless of what we left behind, the new pensioners who are entering the system are making fewer pensions than the elderly, especially those who are retired before 1999 who are leaving and are dying and taking bigger pensions, so we need to find a way to make these low pensions more than 800 thousand people have pensions under two thousand that we need to find a way to stop it or to raise them. And how are we going to do that if we share what we had at our disposal with those pensioners who have more than six thousand kuna pensions because only they will be the winners of this system, only they will be the winners of this system, they will get from two to 10, 12% will get some and former presidents and some worthy widows will get these increases. If that's what this reform is all about, then I'm taking my hat off to the promoters.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20752	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20753	Thank you very much. Comrade Hrelja, you often come out here for a pay phone and say I speak here on behalf of a million and 160 thousand pensioners. So it's a nice figure of style, but that's how you'd be prime minister today and you'd be implementing your policy. But you and I know very well that's not the case and just because you're president of HSU doesn't mean that you speak for everyone. So I'd ask you to correct it a little bit, that's so nice, but that's not it. And then you said elitist, says an increase of 30, 50 kuna, so we remember increasing the previous income tax bill that you raised your hand for. It was also 30 kunas if and especially on small salaries because it couldn't anymore, but you said it was great, now it's no good. And I'm going to remind you of what you raised your hand for, and you didn't care too much about exactly that million and 160 thousand pensioners at the time. 20% higher price or higher electricity bills you kept quiet, 25% higher bills or gas prices you kept quiet, 15% higher water bills based on changes in certain fees you kept quiet, and the worst 40 percent increase in the part of the heating right for the pensioners, perhaps the biggest expenditure you kept quiet. So almost through this increase in municipal accounts almost lost over the year and one or more of the salaries or pensions you're talking about. You gave all of this orderly support by raising your hand and saying it was good. Now that we want to unload it at least in some part where we can not endanger the stability of the financial system, you say it's a disaster elitist and there's no passage in you as a pensioner. Well, just keep it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20754	The esteemed representative Silvano Hrelja will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20755	I appreciate your creativity, but you must listen well to what I have said. I never introduced myself to you here to speak for a million and 200 thousand pensioners but to say that out of the total number of pensioners a million 165 thousand pensioners will not feel any use or that they may be alone in a minus. Please listen to what is said. As for course, our changes in the tax system weren't God knows what they were giving a big maneuvering space, but we didn't offer a fat goose a neck, we didn't give it to those who did. We gave what we could because it was reform time, but we didn't pet a fat geese with the highest salaries and the highest pensions. So I'm asking you, and the third thing, is the answer to your replica, since we've been affecting utility prices here. We make laws, but the price finally according to certain structures of the population determines you in cities and municipalities, so I ask you not to cast mud that is not mine.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20756	Next replica and respected representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20757	You're telling a colleague of the Hrelja for this package of laws that they're not actually solid and that we were more solid in the war, that in the war we were showing more solidarity. Well, we didn't. The only thing that was not yet rich people in Croatia in the war was that they were only created in the war. They went to war as drivers, as accordionists, as plumbers, and came back from war as millionaires. And their wealth has only increased since the end of the war to this day. And this tax reform is not only expected, it's logical, it's a continuation of what HDZ's been doing since it was founded. It is a benefit to those who have become rich either in the privatisation they have performed, in the conversion they have performed or in war profiting. And with their work, they certainly didn't get rich. She's at the expense of who? The poorest ones who dig in containers. However, their national self-awareness can be satisfied with the fact that they are now Croatian containers but that is their only comfort.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20758	The esteemed representative Silvano Hrelja will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20759	Regardless of your remarks, I will not give up on my claim that in the war we were more solid than society and that some people used war to create an initial capital that would be further fertilized, so I agree with you. But you also made me think differently, you know, if this isn't a reward for the guardians of the revolution. You know, the P.A. doesn't have to be everyone in uniform, they can be financiers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20760	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20761	Thank you very much, Mr. Hrelja. Please comment as president of the Croatian Retirement Party on a fact which is undeniable, which is that over a million Croatian pensioners will not get a kuna with this reform, so they will not feel it at all. The fact that this government doesn't care and doesn't care about the fact that the average pension has fallen below 40% of the average salary and these poor HDZ mathematicians do not, Mr Maric, he is aware that the tax reform has limited the highest salary increase to about 1000 kuna. So no one's salary jumped by tax reform more than a thousand kunas, not to one who's 15, not 30, not 60,000 kuna, because it's been changing between the rate and the class in the interrelationship. Now, by reducing from 40 to 36, the bigger the pay rise, the bigger the cost reduction, so that's the elemental difference, don't let anyone explain to you that what is now done is the same thing as it was a year and a half ago. The highest wages were a year ago could grow at most 1,000 kuna, now the one who has 50, 60 thousand kuna will get another average salary, that's what's wrong here. And nobody, don't let anyone explain to you that Croatia is an inventory, that it has come up with the best tax system. How come such things don't exist in Great Britain, France, Italy, Austria. And once again I will say, lower wages there have lower taxes than Croatia and more salaries there have more taxes. And this is absolutely right, it's returning concessions from the campaign. Just look who's defending tax reform, you'll understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20762	Thank you. The esteemed representative of the Hrelja will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20763	Well, dear colleague Maras, you've made some further arguments on my claim that this is an elitist approach and I've already explained that we've done everything to get those with the lowest wages the most and in the crowd it was the lowest pensions because, at the very least, we're still taxable pensions. So we freed some 130 thousand pensioners and directed about 130 million kuna a year to them because of an increase in the untaxable amount of pension. Here is the exact number, a million hundred thousand, 165 thousand pensioners who will get nothing, that is, have less but therefore 65,000 pensioners, of which only 15 thousand are retired under the Pension Insurance Act and all the rest are pensioners by special regulations, so police officers, soldiers, defenders, parliamentary deputies, government members, they will get and share around 70 million kuna on these 65 thousand citizens of the Republic. So that's the real truth about this reform. And so who can take the impression that this isn't an elitist approach.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20764	The next replica is her distinguished representative Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20765	Thank you, Vice President. In your debate, you said that this tax reform, the change of income tax, relaxes the tax system but you know these top managers they have to go to relaxes, they already have winters in Austria and France and Italy and understand that they must have higher income to be able to cover these costs. So this intensity that this tax reform increases personal consumption in Croatia is unfortunately not going to happen because this surplus income will be spent as it has already spent on foreign destinations, on cruises and so on. And you probably think that this group of middle-capitals that have salaries between 5 and 12 thousand kunas should have been encouraged, which are the largest part of the people with a high level of expertise, whose personal income will grow between 50 and 150 kuna, and they will spend it in Croatia, and they will carry the burden and what is not being helped by the pensioners, most of them have one of the parents who are pensioners, who have small pensions, so that 100, 200 or 300 kuna will spend on them. And also nobody mentions pensioners who made a pension out of agriculture, who have pensions from 500 to 600 kuna and over 40,000 are in the Republic of Croatia. When they reach at least that limit that according to Eurostat is the poverty line, I know that this tax reform cannot help them but we do not see any other measures and announcements that they will be helped and that their pensions will also grow and move closer to the average salaries in the Republic of Croatia. What do you think about that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20766	Thank you. With me trying to get the discussion back on track and that's about these two laws. Please respond to your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20767	Dear Vice President, I think I'm sticking to this subject and I'm going to answer in that context. I wouldn't, I can only say that you may have discovered me that new creativity is giving the topic of building and that it can also be financially achieved and relaxing, but I didn't mean that kind of relaxation. But when you mention agricultural pensions, they're all of them, they're all among those pensions that will only be harder and they don't have any better, and pensions have needs as well as all those low pensions to get involved, so we all get involved in the fight against poverty together. The fight against poverty can be fought in three ways. Of course, it is necessary to create conditions in the tax system, so do not give as I told the fat geese to rub their necks but to keep and solve social cases, direct them to the social. We can also retire in the pension system if we arrange family pensions differently, if we do otherwise, or stop pensioning after the years of retirement and if we introduce one protective supplement for these lowest pensions. I remind you that the neighbouring Republic of Slovenia has pension supplements in which, for example, citizens of Slovenia who receive pensions from the BiH or Serbia guarantee an additional pension to a certain social amount. We do not have these mechanisms, we will have to create them and in order to create them we have to have material, and now we have shared the material with those who have the most in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20768	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Goddess Macar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20769	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, dear colleague Hrelja, in your debate, you spoke of introducing a payment of contributions for certain categories. You referred to the work of the pensioners and to the payment of contributions in that category. There is another category where payment of contributions is introduced and these are copyright fees. It is about cultural workers, and we all like to boast that they are our national wealth, that culture is the national wealth of Croatia. However, I am afraid that by increasing these fees, there will be a situation that simply some will avoid paying because they are already in a difficult situation. So I'm wondering if you've got the data, given that you've studied this matter well, whether contributions are paid anywhere else in the world or any other donations other than income tax on these copyright fees. And do you know if the calculation of the impact assessment of this measure is made on the revenue of the budget and how much is it, is it insignificant or is it really so important that we have to introduce it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20770	The esteemed representative of the Hrelja will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20771	Thank you, my most beautiful colleagues, for something that I have essentially missed and is related to the work of pensioners or in the same situation are also users of copyright fees. Yes, I've been asking if it exists anywhere else in the world or in Europe. I did not get to pay contributions to health insurance or pension insurance in any country other than taxes. So obviously that we and there must be in something first, that we are willing to experiment live. And when experimented like that, then it is possible or logical that there will be a avoidance of the reporting of such incomes, or can be very easily this tax reform brings increased work to black. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20772	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20773	Thank you, dear Vice President. To a respected colleague of Hrelja, you spoke about top managers and that is a reward, income tax is a top bank managers award that allowed Croatian citizens to pay illegal interest rates. It is a reward to managers in the state sector who are unpotiously furnished by their parties, who are doing damage in their businesses, for example. We see that the icy rains caused damage in the Croatian forests and those trees that fell were not able to remove anyone from the forest, so we now have the damage due to it in the woods. So it's a reward for such managers. Instead of having this reform that is not in fact a reform that is only a procedure in certain tax laws, we should have a comprehensive economic and tax reform and monetary reform, and in this way we would contribute much more to our society. So instead of dealing with such procedures, we should increase the minimum wage each year, increase the non-taxable part of the salary, and thus help citizens to truly live better. However, this requires a comprehensive reform, not only of tax laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20774	Thank you. The esteemed representative of the Hrelja will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20775	Thank you, colleague Alexic. Of course, to increase the minimum wage, for increasing the lowest social criteria, the state must have money. If he gives it to the rich, then there's no need for it. I just mentioned possible debt returns, possible guardians of the revolution, I may not know what but I can't understand because I don't think that in HDZ they are or in MOST they're not people who don't understand the difficulties, the life difficulties of our citizens. Well, I don't understand that I agree with you, I don't understand the basic motives of this tax reform that the smaller ones are given at least, the pensioners to them a million 165,000 nothing, and that something, or significant, is given to those who have high wages and high pensions. I can't understand that motivation.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20776	Thank you. And the last replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20777	Dear colleague Hrelja, I really admire you. Every time you mention 165 million pensioners and your care for them. A million 165 thousand pensioners, I apologize and take great care of them. I won't repeat what Boric said. But the fact is, you didn't say this every time the laws were passed that went directly to the pensioner's wallet and the electricity collection, on all those charges that were given to them. On that basis, you can't defend yourself against the fat goose caressing your neck. That's one thing. But you also mentioned a conversation with Minister Maric and you said that you agreed with him, that tax policy does not solve pensioners' problems. And that's a fact. But it's tax issues, but it's also the whole state-leading thing that solves something else. And if what we're talking about goes in that direction, then I think those pensioners you're supposed to be worried about would be happy, because it'll also mean economic development and jobs for those who don't work. Thus, and higher revenues to the state budget from which pensions for pensioners will be possible. So it doesn't seem like your concern is that much for these pensioners. If once you're in power with the SDP, you're saying one thing and voting for it, and now that the HDZ is in power, it's proposing something complete in terms of getting the state out of crisis, the development of the economy, and then you're against it. You've been lurking your fat goose around your neck.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20778	The esteemed representative Silvano Hrelja will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20779	Dear colleague Klaric, admiration is mutual. And I admire your forgetfulness, because the fact is that we never gave unlimitedly as you give to those who already have. And you'll remember if you wanted us to ask for an increase in the untaxable amount for the pensioners and that we got it, that no matter what we were in the coalition that we ran the campaign, we calculated our government how much it amounts because they were also written as this government now wrote that something was difficult 400 million, and in fact it was 130. Therefore, there were no breaks to improve property, hence income and pensioners and workers. However, I would admit this reform if it were not given to those who already have, but to increase the budget items for next year on social and anti-poverty items. That I don't understand how you don't understand, you don't understand what I'm saying, that you don't need to give a pig that's too fat.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20780	Thank you. After you boasted to each other, we can move on to the next club of representatives and this is the MOST on behalf of whom the distinguished representative Maro Kristic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20781	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, the Ministers with an associate, fellow Members and fellow MPs. I, on behalf of the Most Independent Lists, will give our consideration to this third package of tax laws under the comprehensive tax reform. So, first of all, what I want to say about the Income Tax Act is that we welcome that our proposal introduces an amendment relating to increasing the limit for a dependent member of the family to 15000 kuna of annual receipts and a human provision for which donations for health care will not enter that limit. Also in the previous days, several days ago, at the address of our club, we received a request which we consider also founded and is related to support for the schooling of underage children after the death of their parents. We believe that it would be logical for child support receipts following the death of parents to be equal in the new draft law with family pensions, and for them to be included in benefits that are not taken into account when determining the right to a personal deduction. We also particularly welcome the change in which the tax on the established disproportionate property and income is increasing by 50%, and now the effective rate will be 54%. So far, it's been in the original 36% initiative. In practice, that rate was equal to the rate taxed legally, the highest rate taxed on legal property. What we do not agree with is an explanation that rejected our proposal to impose legal uncertainty on different deadlines, i.e. this proposal allows illegally acquired assets to be checked only after six years. This is considered inappropriate, as according to the applicable rules of origin of the property can be verified for the past 12 years, so from 1.1.2005 without limitation within the time limit of limitation. And we didn't want to bring into any question the legal justification of this provision. So, now that this property will only be able to check for the last six years, we've practically got a situation where this limitation is constantly moving by one year in advance. We believe that this issue of unproven origin of property and unreported income is one of the main tax issues and that just for the sake of the legal certainty of honest citizens, the verification of property should not in any way be limited by any time limit of limitation. We all know that there are many cases of valuable property, yachts, ships and vessels owned by persons who could not have obtained it legally. By applying the 54% tax rate, millions of funds could certainly be realised for the budget. We therefore point out once again this inadequacy and call on ministers and associates to consider, until the final adoption of this proposal or the package of laws, the possibility of leaving time-limits obsolete as prescribed by the applicable laws. Furthermore, we should also point out when it comes to taxing illegally acquired assets so as not to get the wrong impression that the tax procedure and the criminal proceedings are two completely separate proceedings and mutually independent. The payment of tax on property without origin does not legalise illegally acquired property if the criminal proceedings determine that the property has been acquired in criminal proceedings, it will be withdrawn. Furthermore, I want to say something about simplifying regulations for entrepreneurs themselves, especially small entrepreneurs. One of the objectives of tax reform is simplicity, however, the application of rules for entrepreneurs remains quite complex. The laws in this section did not make it very simple, so in the first reading of this tax law package we proposed that the deadline for submitting the JOPPD form be increased to eight days, this is not respected with the reason that the pension and health insurance funds must be deployed on the same day. That's okay. However, we do not understand why this schedule could not be carried out within eight days, and the extension of the deadline would significantly disburse the resources of small taxpayers and not have to carry out all the actions on the same day. We therefore call on this detail to be considered in order to help small entrepreneurs. Also, the proposal that income tax advances are changed automatically according to the applicant’s application of refusal, noting that this type of tax liability requires a tax procedure, but rather a tax advance, rather than a final tax liability which is otherwise determined on the basis of the data contained in the annual tax application. This proposal has also been rejected for profit tax advances where the annual commitment is determined by means of an accounting application without a specific tax procedure. This proposal went towards speeding up the process so that small entrepreneurs would not be choked by high advances by two, three months after applying for a reduction in advances. We also suggest that if the tax procedure already needs to be implemented, a certain limitation of the time limit should be laid down in the relevant Regulation to address the request, e.g. In order to establish a 15-day period so that entrepreneurs whose business volume fell from the previous year would not be in charge of high tax advances while waiting for their request to be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20782	Thank you very much. Here you couldn't even almost finish the sentence but there were several replicas, so then they multiplied. Let's take it in a row. The first one was a respected representative of Ivan Klarin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20783	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My buddy from MOST, you're a two-faced man to me. You know for what reason? You have built your entire political platform on independent lists, independent mayors and mayors of municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, and today, in your debate on behalf of the club, you mentioned that units of local self-government in the Republic remain without 800 million kuna. I'm just asking a question, all of your mayors, you don't have to keep your colleague Grmoy in violation of the Rules of Procedure under the table, I won't be rude any further, if you wanted to protect your mayors and mayors then today you would say that you object that the Minister of Finance, in the simplest way, has put his hand in the pocket of mayors and mayors, not us, but students, students, pensioners, pensioners. So you know the structure of the local self-government unit covers it all. I'm wondering about those smaller units of local self-government that are going to lose from 500 grand to millions of kuna to the larger ones here I see.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20784	Comrade Klarin, I've already prayed several times today we're sticking to the subject now we're discussing the Law on Contribution and the Law on Income Tax, we're going to discuss what you're talking about this afternoon.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20785	You will now make up for these 15 seconds you took away from me, I ask you, since changes in income tax rates are not about this topic but are 110% of this topic. So the change in the income tax rate of local self-government units, I think we're discussing a package of income tax changes, I don't know, you correct me if I'm wrong. I don't think I'm that stupid... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20786	Finish it, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20787	I, Vice President of the Parliament, can... although you're an academic and it's not polite of me, but that the local self-government unit exclusively insists on income tax and that we lost this tax reform of 800 million kuna. And I replicate my colleague Kristic from MOST, and I am telling him that it would be correct that in his debate, given that your policy platform is based on independent mayors and mayors that they have received 15 parliamentary mandates that he has advocated and said that dear colleagues, you will lose this tax reform without 800 million kuna or colleagues from MOST and the mayors of the HDZ ranks have a figure in their pocket, have a number from the Minister of Finance and 15 other ministers who will call and tell who cares about those mayors and mayors from the SDP or those who are not in the Most you give to our municipality or the city of don't know 100, 500 million kuna to solve our problems that you have taken away from us this tax reform. It's a colleague... [[Speakers speak at the same time, doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20788	You made up a lot for what I said. Dear Representative Maro Kristic will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20789	Here's a thank you, buddy. I would just like to point out that both you and the vice president were wrong, and neither did you replicate my debate nor was it a topic, but it's not that important right now. I really expected you to replicate my exposure, obviously you think that everything I said and okay, I expected you to support these changes in tax rates when it comes to taxing illegally acquired assets and I'm surprised that you as big political parties didn't remember that, you didn't notice that anomaly. And as for the debate on the confiscation of units of local self-government, we are also in the first reading, there will certainly be other colleagues who will talk about it and talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20790	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20791	Dear colleague. You boast that you have improved this law in relation to what the minister and his ministry have proposed, that MOST did it and I believe it and I congratulate you on that. And I expect you to continue in that direction so that when the amendment is discussed and voted on that which we have given and which is going towards protecting painters, sculptors, writers, musicians, journalists, to give us a hand here, not to allow that injustice, this nonsense that the ministry offers to reduce the fiscous, to reduce the budget's income while at the same time damaging this category of people. I can't believe that MOST is, given all its promises, I can't believe that the Most when HDZ already doesn't care about this group of people, and that HDZ doesn't care about them, it's clear to me, so I've known HDZ for a long time. HDZ takes care of its tycoons, takes care of its tycoons, not painters and sculptors, so what do they care about painters and sculptors? But I expect you, colleagues from MOST, to give us a hand here.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20792	The esteemed representative Maro Kristic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20793	Thank you. Dear colleague, of course, we will take your amendments into account. Of course, it should also be seen what effect this will have on the overall budget. I think that just in today's presentation, and the Ministry and the Minister who have accepted the introduction of this high property tax, I have opened one possibility that in a short time if we all advocate and stop protecting the tycoons on the one hand and on the other, we will raise enough funds that the budget will be very social and then we will be able to free both the culturalists and all the groups you have been talking about will have one extremely comfortable situation. So here's what I'm asking you to do as soon as the law comes into force that we begin to report those we consider to have a disproportionate property.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20794	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20795	Thank you very much. Mr. Kristic, please explain to me why you support a reform that makes wage growth so progressive. Which is why the problem is that the highest tax rate remains 40% and it is not up to the new 36%, the amendment submitted by the SDP MPs' Club, which would again allow the highest wage increase of 1000 kuna for those who have a salary of 13, 14, 15 thousand kuna. After that, it gradually grows. Look, when you get to the salary of 42,000 kuna, there's a rise of 3.5, when you get to 60, there's a rise of 6,000 kuna. Why do you support such a progressive, reduced taxation of those who have the most? The difference between our reform and our reform made it possible for the middle class to get up to 1000 kuna a month and the richest ones couldn't get more than 1000 kuna but stayed on it. You can do that and now, support these changes of ours, we're going to raise a thousand kunas to the middle layer again, and we're not going to raise four, five, six, seven, etc., thousands of kunas over here. Why do you support that? I really don't understand it. I could ask you to transfer Minister Marić to the European Council to greet Mr Schäuble Spindelegger or Mr Pier Carlo Padoana and tell them that he has come up with a better model than in Austria, Italy and Germany where the highest rates are by 15% in Croatia. Mr. Schäuble is also a prominent member of the CDU, a right-wing party who is not now to say that his hat is capital but there in Germany is 45% plus 5.5% solid tax paid by the richest to help the poorest. But I'm not, I understand the HDZ, but I don't understand why you MOST support this.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20796	Thank you. The esteemed representative Maro Kristic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20797	And here's my colleague, although this really wasn't a replica of my exposure, I'm going to tell you that we're in the middle of talking to our partners, and we're trying to further dissipate the wages you're talking about, but at this point, it would be an extraordinary blow to the 800 million kuna budget. And we have the minister's guarantee that we will all work together to introduce such discharges next year. And here we have proposed resources from which we could finance these discharges, so I invite you all to work together on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20798	The next replica is the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20799	Thank you, Chairman. Dear counterpart Kristic, you have been boasting in front of journalists for the past few days that you are introducing a 54% rate for illegally acquired property, but today you have already admitted that this rate will not apply to anyone in view of the limitation deadlines in this proposal for amending the Tax Codes. Well, according to that and then very interestingly, you're addressing Minister Maric as if you're an opposition and you're actually power. So you're asking him now to change something that you were actually supposed to change and turn yourself over here in the Parliament without any amendments, which is that the general limitation period is imposed, or abolished, and thus to allow the punishment of those who participated in illegal conversion and privatisation, to punish war profiters. I don't know if you're aware that the general limitation period in Germany is 30 years, and you are now predicting these amendments to the law that this limitation period is too short, which has been 12 years and that an absolute 6-year-old is now being introduced, which means that at this rate, no one will actually be punished and at least those great criminals who brought the country into this crisis that we are now in will be punished. So I ask you nicely, therefore, to make this measure concrete and real and not that it represents some sort of measure such as the one on the write-off of debts by which no one has been written off of debt or college measures to work from which no one has gone from college to work. Therefore, before you go public with the bomb news, it would be good to do what is necessary for such news to truly be credible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20800	Thank you. The honourable representative Kristic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20801	Thank you, Your Honor, for your rep. I would like to say that you are obviously not familiar enough with the procedure and the way this tax reform is brought. So the proposer of this tax reform is the ministry. So we already in the first reading pointed to an anomaly when determining this rate, asked for its increase to 54%, also asking that outdated deadlines do not exist exactly for the reasons and cases that you mention. Of course, if it stays like this, it'll only take the last six years to get an out-of-date count. That it includes those that should be covered by this, this kind of tax supervision will be smaller. That is why we have now and through the second reading pointed to this irregularity and asked the applicant to accept that the limitation deadlines are not lifted, or at least to refrain from 1.1.2005 as they are in the applicable regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20802	And the last replica is that of the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20803	Dear Vice President, here is my colleague, Kristic, who would agree with you that we are pleased that Minister Maric has observed our remarks here on behalf of the club that we have repeatedly repeated during the debate that taxation of disproportionate property would be reduced from 43% to 36% and that the rest would thus be equated with the highest level of legal property, which is not a good message sent to those who cannot prove the origin of the property or who have a disproportionate property. This is how the ministry not only respected the remark but also increased it to 54% which is a very good message and sends one message to all those that the state will have a strict relationship if you can't, if you have an disproportionate property, and of course what we're trying to prove is all illegally acquired property. And I would have had one suggestion if we saw that, for example. This independent sector means that we like to call it the Tax UskoK has good results to establish a single body that will investigate illegally acquired assets. And, of course, what you said was that these outdated deadlines were not available at all, not to be in six years as planned but not at all, and that I am convinced that billions could be found there, that there would be money for cultural people, that the budget would be social, that we could patch up the budget gap that we have because we all know what's been going on in recent years in Croatia. Both during the SDPs and during HDZ governments, and that's something we all need to insist on. Comrade Bunjac, obviously he doesn't know the procedure very well. We have made observations, some remarks are respected, some are not, we would like the minister and his expert team at the ministry to consider these limitation deadlines because it can benefit the state budget and all of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20804	Thank you very much. The next answer will be given by the esteemed representative Maro Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20805	I don't have anything in particular to add to this presentation of my colleagues to Grumoja except, of course, to ask the Minister for one more time with his associates to consider these provisions on limitation terms because they are crucial here, because most of this crime took place six years ago, so at the time of conversion and privatisation. And we don't really see any reason for it to become obsolete in any way.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20806	We'll continue with the representatives' clubs. And now, on behalf of the SDSS club, the word will be taken by the distinguished representative Boris Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20807	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, fellow MPs and fellow MPs. This tax reform is a set of laws in the second reading, and I think now in the debate in the second reading, it's hard to say something new that we didn't say in the first reading. I'm not going to go too far in detail but I'm going to say something principled and a few concrete things. The tax reform was presented at the first cabinet session, and since then both the media and the public have flooded the texts and analyses of its good and bad sides, good and bad effects, about who are the losers of this tax reform, who are the winners. I guess she's lucky and welcomed a stable economic growth she wants to use in more comprehensive tax procedures. Unlike Milanovic's government, which actually started reform first but didn't think of me at the end of the day and carried out how it was probably imagined at the time because of the poor economic conditions that were at the time and because of the political blows that were happening at the time. We now have a situation where our GDP is growing 8 quarters in a row, while, for example, the mini tax reform at the time was just voted in the first quarter when GDP grew, so the first quarter grew. Tax discharge is much easier now to implement in terms of economic recovery and, of course, it is politically acceptable and popular and therefore easier than cutting restrictions. Because through European semester instruments, the European Commission has asked us to cut public spending, to cut social benefits, to impose a number of restrictions on us as an anti-crisis solution. Of course, the tax system is expected to be more socially fair but at the same time to result in stable revenues and to be sustainable in the long term. When it comes to the fairness of the tax system, this is precisely the case with income tax, the amount of tax reform should be consistent with the taxpayer's tax power. We all know now because of these changes in income tax that it will not raise salaries for people who have the lowest wages but only for those with higher salaries. The reason is very simple. The lowest wages will not rise in law and because they have never paid tax income before. There's the most objection and cry, but we're all aware, so this legal change simply can't result in a raise in the lowest wages. And we're all aware here as we discuss and that tax policy alone cannot conduct social policy. There was a lot of talk in the debate about the effects of this, the change of this income tax, on the financing and functioning of local self-government. Any change in the income tax system affects the financing of municipalities, cities and counties. Because income tax makes up about 53% of local self-government income. In 2015, local self-government units collected about over nine billion kunas. The method of compensation which is designed to compensate for this loss, the expected loss of income tax revenue should be at the monthly level. And I think he's very ambitious, and I'm afraid it'll work. Because if it doesn't work, if the compensation doesn't work the way it's supposed to, it can come to the idea that local self-government units start thinking about raising their local cuts to undo the effects of this procedure in this tax code. However, the minister has pledged, but this stems from the law that the state budget will submit all the negative effects of these tax changes on local budgets, i.e. that units of local self-government can plan their budgets for next year in such a way as not to lose what is commendable. In relation to paying taxes on illegal property, I would just say that the introduction of a 54% rate should be welcomed, too bad it has not been done before. You just need to see how it works in practice. In relation to the Law on Contributions, I will only say that the minister explained the motives for these legislative changes, so the number of people who would pay contributions would increase because they wanted to reduce the current inequalities in the fiscal burden of taxpayers that they are carrying out, that is, other income outside of a working relationship, that is, outside of registered independent activity. The contributions are actually more and more similar to the income tax and the bonds are considered a sort of tax burden. The fact is that a lot of institutions and a lot of people who make that second income or the only income resort, so these methods of paying off just to avoid paying off contributions. That's what he's trying to fix here right now. I can understand these professional arguments, I think it's done in trade. However, we are left with that social, political and social context. I think the proposer should consider how to facilitate the position of those whose other income is actually the only income. I mean artists, I mean journalists. So whose existence depends on authorial contracts. In the end, I would still warn of two things that I think should be said. I think it was going well on this tax reform in terms of preparation. We know that she worked for a group of experts, that she's been grinding these proposals for a long time. The political will was there to shape it. The government's behind it. However, what is bad, I think it was too little time for a quality public debate. It should've actually been more time, but I understand. So, if we have come to the end of the year that the laws are required, if we are going to go into this reform they should be voted by the end of the year in order to get to 1.1. And the simple time actually makes us both public debate and a draft budget that needs to be included, so these effects of tax reform actually take place in a time Zeit not we have come. This should all be voted out, discussed and voted in a very short time. I'm afraid so. I think the profession prepared this well, but the final touch that public debate should have taken me a little longer anyway. But here, I'm saying we just came into the time Zeit not. Finally, it is not the subject of this reform, we taxed that social policy cannot be guided exclusively by tax reform. However, Croatia is a social state. I therefore believe that when this tax reform is voted that the government, including the finance minister, should try to take priority to find solutions for the blocked. We all know that we have over 300 thousand citizens who are blocked, that their total debts are almost 40 billion kuna. And I think that's the one thing we really need to solve under emergency. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20808	Thank you very much. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20809	Thank you very much. Mr. Milosevic, in your debate, you mentioned a notorious fact. This should not be avoided, it should be repeated a hundred times today if it is necessary, no matter how angry the chairman is, that those who have low wages or lower or average will get nothing. Now here I was walking the halls here in the Parliament and I was met by a tenant and asked Mr Maras, what will my salary be after the tax reform of Minister Maric, HDZ and MOST? And I say what's your salary now? So he says four and a half thousand kuna. So I'm saying, and you're going to get maybe 40, 50 kuna, that's as much as you can expect, and the man's gone disappointed because these articles in the media, this praise from HUP, the manager, the analyst who in the expensive departments in the journals is giving out tips, so normally they're going to be because when he gets five thousand kunas. It's very simple to look at who praises the reform. Have you seen that pensioners praise, have you seen that unions praise, have you seen that employees praise reform? Well, they don't praise it because they have absolutely no use for it, and they don't see anyone taking care of them at all. And once again I'm going to say, we can't do it in tax terms, although I hope one day our Minister Maric will get the Nobel Prize for Economics, there's time, he's young, he's doing well, but I can't believe you think he came up with something they don't know in Germany, Austria and Italy. How is it possible that there are progressive five rates of taxation, and with the two of us and now we say we've come up with something better. Well, I expect that just now at the next council session, we see Schaeuble reaching out for Maric's sleeve. So it's gonna be Wofgang Schaeuble and Mr. Maric, and as a matter of fact, give me a hint, Zdravko, how did you figure it out? Well, that just doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20810	Thank you very much. So that you fellow Maras might even think I'd be mad at you. You will be answered by the honourable representative Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20811	counterpart Maras so I believe that the SDP is in power that probably the minister would probably be Minister Lalovec, suggested a very similar reform. When there was a mini tax reform two years ago he was also attacked to please the rich, to grow in essence not to be released, not to raise salaries to those who have the lowest wage and he defended himself with very similar arguments. He was just saying that those who have low wages still don't pay taxes. I agree with you that we should consider how to improve the social position of those with lowest salaries, and we should primarily be the ones who are blocked, and in this regard I expect your contribution of the SDP as left to make concrete good suggestions on how to improve the position of those who have the lowest income in the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20812	Thank you very much. The next HDZ representative's club on behalf of which the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20813	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, compared to these two laws, it should be pointed out again that the personal deduction under this proposal of the Income Tax Act is now 3,800 kuna, which is significantly higher than the previous period. And what is important also to mention again is that this is well heard, that over 915 thousand people have never paid taxes before. This law increases the number by another 580,000 means that the border has been raised, and the remaining cca 360,000 people will pay only 5% of the tax so far, or the mass of taxes they have so far paid. So when we look at the total number of people who won't pay taxes at all, that's a million and 495 thousand out of 2.7 million people. So I'm sure some colleagues will say so we'd like you and those people to pay taxes, so that would mean they have a much higher salary or pension. Well, I'm sure that would be good, but it's good that this level of deduction, the personal deduction, has been raised to make it easier to be just as significant. This law simplified the way in which two tax rates are now applied, which is 24 and 36%, and that means up to a tax base of 210 thousand kuna is 24% and over 36%. What is important is that, in the case of property taxes and the like, 12% tax rates are taxed, it is important for taxpayers who carry out their own activity that they can report and pay their income tax at a flat-rate rate which will certainly make it easier for many customers to do business. It is often mentioned here that the state will pay and make up for the units of local self-government that are state money. Well, I don't think so, all that's collected at the level of the Republic of Croatia's budget is our money, so the unit of local self-government because that income is made in each individual unit. So here is the justice of the government as much as it wants to make up for exactly that amount to the units of local self-government, or it doesn't want to damage them in any way, even though there are those who say but in the long run they will be abolished. So if we talk about the tax base, or the number of those who will pay in any way part of the tax liability, then I think that, ultimately, with the increase and expansion of that base and also with a fairer schedule and control of all incomes and receipts and at the level of the units of local self-government, we will be much less depreciated than we have been so far. When it comes to pensioners, yes, this bill is untaxable, it is equal to 3800 kuna and here when some colleagues mention how progressive rates are paid in some countries, then we can only say that when we compare these and such systems, then we must consider how contributions are paid in those countries, i.e. what form of health and pension insurance is not identical. So from these progressive rates and also such persons pay and replace one part of exactly what in these countries is a different regulated payment of contributions, i.e. they have gross receipts from which it is serviced and then there are also different models as basic, health insurance is achieved and everything else is then serviced through other forms of insurance and some sort of asparagus and other. Therefore, according to the second law, which is the Law on Contributions, certain categories of taxpayers who are too burdened with the burden of contributions are observed in the system in relation to those who do not have or have been excluded. We know that the Minimum Payment Act was first adopted on 1 July 2008 and that he later changed, so the next change was later where the minimum monthly basis for the calculation was, in fact, the basis for the calculation of the contribution the employer had to make to the minimum contributions. And this multiple, these minimum bases were 0.35 which for 2016 was 2812 kuna and 90 limes to subsequently increase it by a regulation to 3120 kuna. Here right now this law wants to reduce the difference between that minimum salary and the minimum monthly basis for calculating contributions so that this coefficient actually increases and it is now proposed at 0.38%, i.e. the coefficient 0.38. What's all this about? So precisely for the reason that the amount and basis for calculating the contributions would be as high as possible, that is to say, the constant lack of exactly the part of the income that is not realised through the contributions and they are needed to be able to pay pensions of social and other benefits and we know that this disproportionate is huge, almost double. These amendments also provide for the use of the Institute to pay contributions within 8 days for persons who have a head office outside the Republic of Croatia and also to extend the payment period for those citizens who, within 30 days, have a seat, employers are established in another EU Member State. It is also changed with this contribution law that the basis of the actual contribution is increased by those and those who have seats in another country, so their executive directors or members of the administration and so on, so that their basis cannot be less to calculate contributions from contributions actually and the basics for those who pay our craftsmen, thus increasing the base from 3120 to 5200. And these amendments also suggest equating obligations in such a way that the monthly basis for those categories will be set at the level of the base prescribed for insurance companies, therefore paying for it on the basis of a business book. So these changes are also changing in relation to current legal solutions for second income, which is actually the subject of the same controversy, which is why the second income is being introduced into the payment of contributions. So in this way, we can say that this is the same in order to ensure that the disbursement of the average payer would actually be from 100 kunas or 100% decreases to 63% in order to actually make it possible for the larger amount of resources to serve all other needs, or that these contributions would cover as much as necessary, and to prevent a certain tax ejaculation as possible. Here we are, as a HDZ club, therefore, supporting change and especially in relation to what has been reduced to the contribution of pension insurance to students and students who are also making certain incomes, and this is what you know from 5% for pension to 1% and a special contribution to health protection from 0.5% to 0.1%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20814	Thank you. And there are several replicas for your exposure. He's the first of his distinguished representatives, Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20815	Thank you very much. Mrs. Peric, in your presentation, you have read a lot of arguments that have given the ministry and everything that is changing there but all these wild explanations and technical things that change overshadow one single fact that we have been pointing out here all day. And that is why you support a reform that does not solve the problem of pensioners, does not solve the problem of employees of our colleagues here in the Parliament who work with us as civil servants and tenants, but gives them 20.30 kuna if they give them anything. And to people of 50,000 kuna, he pays 5 thousand kuna. That's the basic question, why do you support it? And why you as the ruling party not one word now in my speech, I was hoping when you started saying that you're going to mention, here you will go soon and the Minimum Pay Act, will soon go and some HDZ solutions to cross 40% of the average salary. You're only talking about one narrow circle of people who's going to get enormous benefits they've never had before. And that's what we're worried about. You represent the party that suggested this and we can't just believe that it doesn't touch you at all over a million and 160 thousand pensioners and over a million employees who will absolutely have nothing. Tell us why you do not apply models that have more developed countries than Croatia and what systems have been developing for years? Which is why you only benefit those who have the most managers, bankers, big entrepreneurs and all those of whom our fellow citizens will unfortunately have nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20816	Thank you. The distinguished representative Grozdana Peric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20817	It's just a colleague on the contrary. However, I am very concerned and try to systematically understand the methodology that this government and together with us are trying to solve the problem, actually create quality and good preconditions to have and to create something that we can then quality and divide. If what we expect to share with our pensioners and benefits, then we must first create them, create assumptions that we will really earn and that we will then have the opportunity to change the minimum wage law and change the basics and raise pensions. So we're really worried about that, and these are all the preconditions that are being created to create exactly a quality basis for that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20818	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Tully Demetlika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20819	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Peric, from what is already mentioned you imitate this reform, you also come from a local self-government unit where you have great experience and that is what is particularly surprising to me. In fact, in previous exhibitions, we've been looking for clear criteria from the IDS club, and you're again convincing us that the loss that units of local self-government will lose to these tax reforms will be compensated. I'm asking a loud and clear question why some of the money from the local self-government units has to go downtown to come back tomorrow? Leave them to us immediately in the units of local self-government because this fairer schedule that you mention makes us kind of think it's another way to centralize this country. So we're taking money back to local self-government units and regionals, taking it to the center to make it more fair for you. From all these proposals, we do not see how they will be more justly deployed and the question arises whether that distribution will go back on that party key or on the criteria that the ruling one will set. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20820	Thank you. The distinguished representative Grozdana Peric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20821	Dear colleague, income tax is a common tax. So, what has so far been divided into a state, a city or a municipality and a regional self-government unit or a county so now it will come down to two stakeholders, and these are just a unit of regional and local self-government. So it's just that this whole income is being decentralised in favor of who? Once again, we are a unit of local and regional self-government, not states. So far, everything that's going to be replaced has come from the total mass just as it's been divided into three parts. Now that this income is created where we are, it will be allocated, or emptied from the common account, to return to the level of regional and local and nothing flows into the state budget. From the state budget, everything we get will be obtained from other sources of income from non-intentional tax which will thus be able to disperse. Well, now, you tell me what centralised is, not decentralisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20822	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20823	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Peric, we must today correct these truths that come from the left because once again a lie can be caught as truth. I take Mr. Lalovac's presentation at the government in 11 months 2014 where he presents the effects of the Income Tax Act that he changes and then says the presentation. One who has a salary of 2400 net 30 kuna gets, 3700 gets 56 kuna, one out of 5500 gets 363 kuna, one out of 11380 kuna gets 1427 kuna. And what more should we talk about today's remarks? What to talk about when it is clear that we have increased the base deduction from 2600 to 3800 kuna, that we have increased the deductions for abstention members from 0.5 to 0.7, for the first child also from 0.5 to 0.7. Second 0.7 to 1, third from 1 to 1.4. And it's clearly summed up when we apply all this to the salary bill that the person with one child so far, up to 3840 kuna, has not paid any taxes. Now it's rising to 5520 kuna. A person with two children has never paid her up to 5680 kuna. Now up to 8,000 doesn't pay any taxes. And they assure us that they raised these lowest wages by several hundred kunas of that salary, even though they themselves know that they couldn't because they couldn't, because taxes were paid as much as they were paid, and we're like greasy geese. And their class and I say the last one to 11,000 already raised that salary to 1400 and there were 50 times the one who had a salary of 2400 kuna. So they didn't realize at all why the people had replaced them. They're like some left-handed kind of thing, and they've been making moves just like the ones who are criticizing her today, and they call them rich.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20824	And that wasn't exactly a replica, but the distinguished representative Peric will say so.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20825	Well, here you go. Thank you, colleagues. In fact, you have repeated what I did and before this debate, or in the first reading that I was saying to a person with one child, because the amendment is proposed to increase the personal deduction to 5000 kuna, which is probably impossible for the current mathematics. Because if it were possible, the government would have suggested it. But already this increase to 3800 is a significant increase, and while what you've calculated that a family with a single child already has an untaxable share of income of more than 5400 kuna is what's really looking forward to, because that's the middle class we're talking about, which should be very helpful. And then, along with this ever-expanding improvement and an increase in the overall situation, i.e. the increase and number of employees, and also the recovery of the economy that is here, I hope that it will create much better conditions for all of us to live better together.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20826	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20827	Dear colleagues, trying to quite unskillly justify the elimination of the exemption from paying contributions for painters, sculptors, writers, musicians, actors and journalists, you say with this there will be some justice because it will include those who pay for these contributions and there will be more money for these general needs. You didn't listen to the minister who said that when you look at the total all changes given the second income of the fiscus will be less than 40 million kuna. So from one, you weren't listening, you were saying something else. So, on the one hand, the state will have less than 40 million kuna, and on the other hand, artists will have their own smaller net. They'll have to pay more. And you now call it new justice. Why don't you explain to me what's right here?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20828	Thank you. The distinguished representative Grozdana Peric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20829	Justice must be shown in that all these artists and authors also have a tax deduction, i.e. a tax relief of 30% and 55% respectively. This is significantly more than all other employees who are in the system of personal deductions. And justice is so great that all of these people also use benefits and pension and health insurance. So if we all have to pay in the Pension and Health Insurance Fund, then I think it's the same duty and all the other people they make in any way, but that doesn't necessarily mean that their fees are going to be smaller.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20830	And the last replica of the esteemed representative, John Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20831	So again, we are in the story of reforms, but this time the main star of these reforms is HDZ and HDZ, which has been leading a certain policy for 26 years and has been implementing some reforms from time to time, today argues that these changes to the income tax law will make it easier for citizens to live better. So here I have a question, do you think it means historically that of these reforms of yours that you've brought to citizens in the past have any benefit? Are your reforms really making citizens worse, and does that policy of yours, which is basically Alan Fordovska, take to the poor to give to the rich, or in Super Hika's manners, what will be the benefit to the citizens? We see with the benefit will be essentially only those at the top of the pyramid of power, and you've told us to propose an amendment. Here, Mrs. Peric, we will not remain in the demagogy, and our amendment is to the Final Proposal of the Income Tax Act in Article 88 adds paragraph 5. In the process of examining the source of the property, the entire assets of the natural person will be examined regardless of the time of its acquisition. In fact, the biggest robbery of this country that happened didn't happen recently but happened in the 1990s when it turned into members of a particular party, we're not going to say which, citizens will recognize which, acquired huge assets in an unfair way. We're wondering if your amendments to the law will go to that property, or if we'll just be dealing with recent events. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20832	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is the Life Wall Representatives Club in the name of which the distinguished representative Branimir Bunjac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20833	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today we are discussing income tax and other laws or amendments to laws concerning tax reform. During this debate, we have already heard that some questions are open, among other things, the representatives of MOST who have warned us here that I do not know the procedure for making suggestions and remarks in this reading, but this is the second reading and the second reading does not give suggestions and remarks, they are given in the first reading, and in the second reading should be given amendments. So we haven't heard until now that MOST has given any amendment, so here's what counterpart Pernar said we have prepared a whole series of amendments so we suggest that if they don't already know the procedure that at least our amendments overwrite or vote for them, it would be even simpler. Namely, a colleague from MOST Kristic boasted for the last two days that they had prepared a tax rate that would tax illegally acquired property, however, as we have already seen due to the limitation period imposed by these amendments to the law, this rate will not apply to anyone. Therefore, the Living Wall will propose an amendment not to impose obsolete deadlines for the examination of asset sources, which means that it is possible to tax all illegally acquired assets back in the last 26 years or that it is possible to tax the property that has been created by illegal conversion, privatisation and war profiting. We must not forget that the consequences of privatisation were such that any newly-roasted tycoons bought companies without one kuna in their pocket, I repeat, bought companies without one kuna in their pocket, who allowed it, and that hundreds of thousands of citizens were out of work, as well as shares in those companies that had been building for decades with their own contributions and denials. Therefore, the introduction of such an ageing deadline as... the proposer to time-consuming and that is only an absolute six years, that means that we have abolized complete crime in conversion and privatisation. Well, is it really possible that this House will raise its hand for such a change of law? Is anyone going to blush over this? I repeat, we have divided the amendment, so here I hope there will be hearing, but there will be responsibilities and one such conclusion must be accepted. As for some other articles, we would also like to appeal that this Law on Contributions does not punish people who work in education, culture, and science who earn other income in those dams. I would like to warn that science, culture and education have been reduced for years and we will now further, instead of increasing the isolation, we will now add to these people by forcing them to pay contributions that have not been paid, and there is a whole series of illogicalities. For example. The lack of logic is that free artists are already paid pension and socially. And are we going to pay pension and social twice now? I'd like to be made clear by the legislator. So given this measure and the reduction of these budgets that I am now talking about, we have the right to suspect that this is not about any correction of equality or any injustice but about knowingly suppressing Croatian identity. So the legislator who has on his own behalf, Croatia is working to destroy Croatian culture and what has essentially enabled us to create our own country. It means instead of me not knowing we're trying to create some new Ivan Meštrovic or, say, some new August Sheno. We want to create a culture where the ultimate artistic achievement will be the logos of large corporations, where art paintings will replace posters from daily newspapers and cultures of violence and death that come daily from the country, which is created by violence and that lives on violence, which promotes films in which blood is poured from the first minute to the last minute and the same video game that brings us holidays that have nothing to do with Croatia like Halloween. And now instead of dedicating ourselves to this 12 month, some kind of traditional holiday, what are we going to do again? We'll spend time at malls and actually suppress all the values that we should have been proud of that gave us so general existence, survival and therefore a top cultural product will be not knowing going to Mc Donald's. And that's what you stand for, you reduce resources for culture, art, and now here's to cultural workers. What are you doing this for? So you want to achieve the effect of globalisation that we've been exposed to all along, so with this so-called. with advanced integration that Croatia ceases to exist except eventually on paper and on its flag and on the coat of arms. Don't do that. So you change these, the Law on Contributions in a way that you leave such rates as they have so far and my proposal is actually to make it even easier for them than it has been before. At the end of the day, if you have been following the debates of the last days in public, you have noticed that absolutely the entire public rejects this measure. And why aren't you responding? Because you are not responsible for the public but are responsible for those who send you directives that we cannot vote on. Well, if that's the case, then I suggest you don't call yourself HDZ anymore than the bisect democratic community or if you want NATO, anyway. I would also like to point out one more thing, which is taxing foreign pensions that have been carried out recently retroactively, which in itself is not such a problem, but is the problem that the tax administration has not given clear instructions to foreign pensioners in which to pay taxes. A very bad communication has been made between therefore relevant entities. The taxing process itself was very complicated, he namely meant that the pensioner himself came into the tax administration, charged taxes and paid him and did so on a monthly basis. And people just couldn't, they didn't know they had to do it at all. And now what's happening is that some pensioners have bills coming in for 100 or more thousand kunas. How can a pensioner now pay a tax for the last five years in such a high amount of one pension? And the worst part about that tax debt is that they charge interest that's very high. So it would be very important to measure this retroactive taxation of pensions and you, among other things, advocate diaspora rights. Here I am sorry that there are now no representatives of the diaspora, so that it is suspended and that the tax administration is dealing with what is much more important, and that is by collecting tax debt to large secretors and debtors. We would also like to warn once again that these amendments to the law abolish the concept of a small taxpayer. So small taxpayers are those bonds that were so far unable to enter the fiscalisation system because they had very low incomes or barely survived, remained on the market, most often in a way that the whole work was done on their own and paid themselves a very low salary. So far, the state has gone to meet them in a way that they could have paid a flat rate, so without investing in fiscalisation, without having to pay bookkeeping, to buy forms and equipment for that purpose, but now that category of small taxpayers' citizens is being abolished, which means that this tax reform is hitting on the weakest ones again. So we're seeing again and we've already heard an innumerable series of evidence that this tax refom is not protecting socially endangered categories of citizens but protecting the rich. So what have we seen in the last few days? So we saw that it was abolished before tax I don't know about nuclear reactors, we saw that the VAT on the purchase of vehicles and planes, personal cars, and we see that a small taxpayer, let's say here's a specific case of a hairdresser who runs a small place and has two, three customers a day barely survive to make what's called funded by his family. It now imposes on it the fiscalisation obligations completely unnecessary as to how it will save the budget. And this is the budget in which GDP growth is so-called 3% and the budget in which expenditures are increasing by 4 billion kuna. So another crucial proof that this tax reform is not working in favour of an average Croatian citizen. Now, we hope that during the vote on the Living Wall amendments, there will be a goodwill for these things to be fixed. In addition, the opposition proposed a whole series of quality amendments in order for this tax reform to take some kind of human form to be substantially amended. In these amendments proposed by the Government, it is clear and visible that no significant change has taken place in relation to the first reading, so if such a form remains for the final vote, the Living Wall will definitely not accept such a tax law. And you accept all the responsibility that will result from the adoption of these amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20834	Thank you very much, Mr. Bunjac. I just have to warn you of something wrong. We've had since 2011. Law on the non-depreciation of war profits and acts from the process of conversion and privatisation. So that law exists and there's no need to solve it with this law. He only exists to be spent. But there are more replicas to your exposure. ... I'm not plimising at all, I'm just pointing you to the existing law. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We have several replicas, the first one being the distinguished representative of Sabine Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20835	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, I share your dissatisfaction and concern for artists, for intellectuals, scientists who will suffer greatly the damage to the proposed solutions, specifically in these few draft laws that we are discussing today. However, you can see when we talk about the income achieved on the basis of the second income here we have two categories. So they won't all be kind of cut off because when we talk about people who don't actually have a working relationship, but the incomes come from a work contract, they kind of get here when we talk about net amounts that they sort of receive for jobs that they do because they reduce half the contributions to pension and health insurance. So the net amount will likely be reduced grossly, and the net amount will increase by membership in the congregations and supervisory boards of companies, boards of directors, boards of directors and other one-time and occasional jobs that did not involve the conclusion of work contracts. But on the other hand, when we talk about people who survive, which are even the only income, which is because they deliver certain copyright or related rights or some work of art. In their case, according to the increase or introduction of the obligation to pay contributions to health and pension insurance, this will certainly reflect the net amounts of compensation that these people will receive. This certainly is not good, it dims the development of a cultural, creative, educational and scientific sector with a particular emphasis on the scientific sector, which is unfortunately when we talk about GDP allocations for science in the Republic of Croatia, one of the lowest in Europe. And it's not good for us to further dim them in this way. Because it's actually the creative intellectual potential of the Republic of Croatia who was punished in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20836	The honourable representative Branimir Bunjac will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20837	I thank my colleague, Voter. That you're right that there is therefore punishment for people who should be the feather of every country because in the end, what are we proud of when we introduce ourselves to the world? Whether when we introduce ourselves to the world we will show a picture of the Minister of Finance or we will show the statue of Ivan Meštrovic in New York or we will show what is called the novel "The Peasant Rebellion" or actually these amendments to the Law on Contributions. So these artists are basically what we're all proud of and basically what creates a kind of Croatian state. And all this is happening because the legislator doesn't consult with the expert public at all. So they're not interested in what they think, they're just interested in painting themselves with these pictures that we have in the halls of the Parliament building that pay for 50 thousand kunas, that I've been admiring my painting and some real art that's created with a lot of love, with a lot of idealism in which man invests all of his potentials and that he's ultimately created for decades they don't care, it can all go down together, we're going to stick to the wall the calendar of Pan beer and that's going to be art by the way of the proposer of this law. I believe he doesn't even know what culture is. It's important I don't know how to put an expensive watch, and that's what's called a culture that's at the level of those who pass such laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20838	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Silvan Hrelje. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20839	Dear Comrade Bunjac, you spoke of the problem of taxing foreign pensions. Of course I agree with you that due to the inertness and error of the system there should be no retroactive taxation of foreign pensions. So it is not people's fault that the system is inert, that laws change or interstate agreements, for example, in 2009 Germany changed its social agreement with the Republic of Croatia and announced that if we do not tax the pensioners, that it will do so. So we don't charge taxes for pensioners from Germany, but they are charged by Germany in the last place of residence and we pay health contributions. I also agree that if in 2012, the law under which tax obligations were imposed from the Republic of Slovenia was changed, there was no reason why the Tax Administration did not communicate with all beneficiaries of pensions from abroad, i.e. through the exchange of data it was able to obtain all data on them and in some way collect data and call them, communicate with them and give solutions. In addition to this technology that we have today, we expect the fox to carry our mail and thus communicate with people. I think that time should go after us, and those mistakes are difficult, the penalties are diverse and very difficult as society we pay and ultimately harass our citizens because of the inertness of the system. I'm called daily by pensioners who have such problems, and I'm going to give about one of these problems, or I've given it to the amendment procedure, so you're going to have a chance to support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20840	Thank you. The esteemed representative of Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20841	Thank you, colleague Hrelja. Yeah, that's where we go back to the same problem, and that's why the bill promoter doesn't care what the citizens think. So, you're the president of the retirement party, and even I who am therefore a representative of the Living Wall have a sealed e-mail and inbox I don't know on Facebook messages from the pensioners who have informed me that they have received some of them tax debt to pay in the amount of 200 thousand kuna. So in 4 to 5 years with him not being properly informed of his obligation to collect his debt with interest so much, he now has to pay an abnormal amount that is essentially impossible to pay. What are the pensioners supposed to do now? Now the pensioners should give up a year of their pension, practically not eat, not pay the director anything, to pay that tax debt, and we know it's impossible. And now there's going to be blockades and there's no way out of those blockades as we know it. Once again there will be the cost of the execution, there will be the cost of the FINA, and that debt will rise I do not know of such amounts that the descendants of these people will have to give up their inheritance, they will have to give up their property and everything else, the mobility to save these debts. Therefore, the responsibility in this case is not on the pensioners, but is the responsibility of the Tax Administration which has badly communicated these amendments to the 2012 law which you said, and in addition introduced the extremely complicated laws, meaning the extremely complicated methods of tax collection that pensioners themselves and on a monthly basis had to come to the Tax Administration, calculate their tax and pay the state. So I repeat again. The IRS instead of harassing pensioners would be better off catching real work, so they can catch all these tax evasionrs using transfer prices and coupons.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20842	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative, God Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20843	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. So, I have no intention of talking about the scale or the debate, or the law because I think this is just one part of it, so this law is part of a tax reform that in one whole, coherent way solves the problem, so of course all segments of society actually should have a benefit from it. As far as taxation of foreign pensions is concerned, the problem needs to be addressed. Retired people from some countries have partly solved the problem, such as those from Germany's bilateral agreements. The one in Switzerland hasn't been solved. And I believe this government will surely find a way to get rid of it. However, I called primarily to respond to a fellow representative who said I do not see a representative of the diaspora here. In fact, I am a representative of the diaspora, although I am not part of the diaspora, because I am part of the constituent Croatian people from BiH. If the representative doesn't see it, then let him examine the eyes, take the other glasses. I do it from time to time, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20844	Thank you. The esteemed representative of Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20845	I apologize to you fellow counsel for not mentioning you. Namely, my view was focused on my colleague Glasnović, and I didn't see you. And I'm glad you also noted that the motioner will respect this observation. Here we finally agreed to the opposition with you from HDZ. Therefore, it should be noted that the taxation of foreign assets is suspended retroactively for the reason that pensioners are not responsible for this non-payment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20846	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20847	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Here's a question I'm curious about in your debate you've highlighted a huge inequality that is also being strengthened in our society because of this tax reform. My question is, what do you think HDZ's doing? Here's a very simple question. Do you have any idea why HDZ in this way strengthens inequalities in Croatian society?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20848	The esteemed representative of Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20849	A fellow Maras, it is about one mentality that prevails in Croatia, and this mentality has created me to tell the truth, the first president of independent Croatia with one law that allowed nationalized villas to be bought at very low prices and then after that, an eldorado was created in which the most important thing was to take property, to create property for themselves, to make good for themselves, and to forget all the ideals on which this country was created in 1990 and 1991. And it lasts until today. So it is a sin that Cardinal Bozanic called it a sin of structure that will not stop until generations change in Croatia, which is that all those who come to power through this great party forget all that they were before and after are doing all that is in favor of a very narrow group of people, and these are those who are politicians and those who have come from them, and these are tycoons, converted criminals and war profiters. And unfortunately it can't be eradicated, I repeat, it's already entered into a mental set in one code, it's a brain encoding where even the strongest ones who come, and I see that some very interesting young people have come into this assembly's assembly, but be sure that they and them will quickly turn, very quickly break, and they will raise their hands just as they were commanded when they had to give up their own relatives on Friday, if they had to, if such an order came from outside.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20850	Now we would continue with an individual debate, but before that I would only have read you one notice. Therefore, members and members of the Committee on Equality of Jobs, second session of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Assembly, will be held today in the hall of Janko Draskovic, room 202 with the beginning of work at 14 hours. And now I'd like to give my word to Reverend Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20851	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Here we are approaching it slowly and the second day is the debate on tax reform. What is important to say and what bothers us all here in the Croatian Parliament, and what we insist on during these two days is that we simply cannot understand why tax reform is on the agenda at the moment when it does not solve the basic issues that plague our citizens. So we have a question that is number one in the Republic of Croatia, which is a minimum wage which is now defined below any possible limit so that people can live with dignity from their work and what SDP insists on, or SDP's club insists that the minimum wage issue be placed on the agenda as soon as possible and that it is defined as 50% of the average salary in the Republic of Croatia, which would allow hundreds of thousands of our citizens to have 500 kunas more than they have so far. On the other hand, the question of pensioners or minimum pensions, or average pensions, which have now fallen below 40% and which in some ways does not satisfy the basic needs of our pensioners and the measures that the Croatian government must take to return more than 40%. These are issues that we expected each responsible government, that each responsible minister would open them first at the moment and put them as top priority on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament and of the Croatian Government. Not to open the first topic of how to raise salaries to those who have too much or have enough or have enough to be able to live with dignity on that side, and the explanation is that this will increase personal consumption. I'm convinced exactly the opposite. If someone has 35, 40 or 50 thousand kuna he will pay at this time the additional five thousand kunas given to him by HDZ and MOST's government will not spend in Croatian stores but will at best save it because it remains part of something he can invest in his property. So there is no saying that this tax reform will increase personal consumption and that we will see a certain effect tomorrow in the Republic of Croatia on GDP. On the other hand, I've been attacked by a lot of various analysts, economists, bank advisers, stakeholders, HUB, HUB and similar and told me that we're talking nonsense, that it's basically a demagogy that I can't explain and argue that those who don't have enough pay to pay more taxes that they can't get any more, that why I object that they can't help themselves anyway. I say the exact opposite. It can only be helped by a different policy and a different way. We could choose for example contributions to all salaries in the Republic of Croatia to reduce 2% and in this situation honest entrepreneurs could do this to make someone who has five thousand kunas pay an increase in wages by 2% by over 100 kuna per month. So there could have been a way, there could have been a solution, but a solution was chosen where the one with five thousand kunas gets nothing, and the one with 50 thousand kunas gets five thousand kunas. And they still told me that we are as something anti-enterprise, I personally assure you here that I am not for tax increases to entrepreneurs or citizens, but rather, to cut taxes to entrepreneurs and citizens. but on the contrary, for tax cuts to entrepreneurs and citizens. That doesn't mean I think this example is ideal. I would choose instead of discharging those richest to reduce the rate of 25% not to 24 but to 22 or 21. There was space and there was room to do it but unfortunately we didn't do it. And once again I'm going to tell you, look at the parallel examples from Austria, Germany, Italy, Great Britain, France, all developed countries, all of them have progressive rates, there's no flat tax anywhere that obviously advocates this government. There aren't only two feet anywhere, there's a higher payer everywhere. And on that side, another illogicality, and I have to point it out here. Managers, directors, board members, banks, trade chains in the Republic of Croatia pay less taxes than their colleagues in Austria, Italy and Germany. In Austria, the maximum tax rate is 50%, in Germany 45% plus the solidarity tax, 5.5%, in Italy 43%. Why is it possible there, why these countries are not anti-entrepreneurship and when a similar thing is proposed in Croatia, then it is anti-entrepreneurship because the stakeholders of those who have access to the media force such theories and support Minister Maric because it is the same interest circle, the same groups of people who are in the interest of pushing only their own, their own agenda, and to push only their own interest and ultimately have more money than what Minister Maric will adopt. This is what bothers me and this is what I cannot possibly understand that the German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schäuble can thus tax a manager in a commercial society in Germany and we cannot in Croatia. So someone who has 10,000 euros net, 70,000 euros, 70,000 kuna net monthly salary, ladies and gentlemen, according to this proposal, will pay more taxes in Germany than in Croatia. What would not be disputed is that at the same time the one who works with the manager in the bank or in the trade chain does not pay more taxes in Croatia than his colleague in Germany pays. So we made workers more, employees more burdened in the Republic of Croatia and gave less to the presidents and members of the administration. Do you see what a logical inversion is? I would be happy to have, as in Germany in Croatia, a 14% income tax for salaries that I do not know 6,7,000 kuna or 1200, 1,300 euros, up to 10 thousand kuna, I would be happy if it were so in Croatia. Unfortunately, no, the tax is 24% in Croatia. But I would also be happy to keep this 40% rate because it strengthens inequalities in our country. I'll show you one more graph which is the difference between SDP reform and HDZ reform. The SDP's reform has defined that medium wages, that medium wages grow to make that salary rise as a thousand kunas and stop it at some 13, 14, 15 thousand kunas net. After that they had 60 thousand kuna, 50, 30, yet your salary is growing 1,000 kuna. According to Minister Marić's proposal, HDZ and MOST, it goes 1,000 kunas again to about 15, 16 thousand kunas, then goes up arrow, graph goes up and you see that salary rises and grows. The bigger the pay, the bigger the increase. And now someone will say it again very wisely as if no one alive knows it, because they pay more taxes. So they pay more taxes in both Germany and Italy and Austria, both Denmark and Finland, in 17 or 18 European Union countries, this rate will be higher than in Croatia. Only in the countries that have chosen a flat tax there will the tax rate be lower than Slovakia, such as Estonia, these countries that have classified that model. If that's what we want, I don't want it, I'm the Social Democrats, the Left-wing, I want whoever has more contributions to society and we want to protect those who are the poorest and have nothing. And that way we need to resonate, not in a way that would help those who already have enough. And the thing that hurts me most is that of all of Minister Maric, what you're about to do with it. Why wasn't the Minimum Salary Act in the first cabinet session? Why were the first government meeting not measures that would help our pensioners? Not in the first session of the government were measures to help management members who earn 50 and more thousand kunas to get 5, 6, 7, 8 thousand kuna more per month. And that's what unfortunately will mark this tax reform, and that's why I can't accept it at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20852	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. The esteemed Silvano Hrelja came first.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20853	Dear colleague Maras, you mentioned average pensions, but I must tell you that we have a precisely defined problem in the pension system if we are going to fight poverty. We have 40% of pensioners under the income censorships freed by the state of payment of supplementary health insurance and you know it's 1516 kuna income per person or 1936 kuna if someone is single. These are criteria set back in 2004. So it's no problem if we have two pensions per 2700 kuna in the house, the problem is these 40% pensioners who don't have other incomes. And that's where we have to, that's where I have to fight, and that's why I'm in my discussion, and I understand what you're saying that we're throwing material at those who have, so we're throwing money at those who have instead of solving the problem of poverty. I remind you that old democracies, the Kingdom of Denmark, Italy have a range of salaries 1:2.5, with us negotiating with a minimum range of 1:3.2. So we, and the state negotiates that way as a signer of a collective contract. So tell me and give me arguments that this is not an elitist approach to wages and pensions. We need to understand that everyone has to live on salary and pension. We are not doing anything on this plan all these years, and the HDZ president in 2003, Prime Minister Sanader signed an agreement with HSU that the average pension for the duration of his first term will be 70% of the average salary.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20854	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Maras will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20855	Mr. Hrelja, this is an absolutely elitist approach. That an elitist approach tells you a series of data. One of these data is that this reform is facing only 2% of the population of the Republic of Croatia. The pensioners won't have anything from her, 0 kuna. 50% employee none of it, 0 kuna. 48% of the employees will have 50, 60, 70 kuna per month, 2% of the employees to whom this reform is and you well called it the elitist reform will turn to have 1000, 2, 5, 7 so that the highest salaries and tens of thousands of kuna more per month. And now they're gonna say it again, so we pay more. But it's normal for one who has more, more and more to bring back to society and for those who have the least to protect them.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20856	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20857	Thank you, Chairman. That Mr. Maras even used his own time and comparison of this government, that is, her policy with Superhik. However, I would dare say that there is one difference. In fact, Superhik is depicted in the Alan Ford comic book as a bad guy, and most of the main bad guy and this government's policy is trying to show itself through the media as a positive change, but it's not about its consequences, which will say that, as a fellow Bunjac has said, that independent artists, or means musicians to whom the state is already paying contributions, will pay them twice. And I can only agree with everything Mr. Maras said and say that I share his condemnation and such policies that will break to the poorest. Because keep in mind that the poor will get neglectful, and those with the highest wages very much. However, the prices of basic foods will be collected. Finally, it will come to the poor that there will be less money left and more money for the rich. Because rich people can't eat, can't someone with 50,000 kunas pay to eat a lot more I don't know quantified than someone who has 5,000 kunas pay, say. And in the end, what's going to happen is that it's actually hitting on the poor, the rich are getting higher incomes, and eventually it's all going down, and we're coming back in the end to turn from hollow to empty, that actually the hole in the budget is still going to be in billions. And ultimately neither will the social problems be solved nor the deficit will be solved. We are today thanks to this government's policy in a complete financial disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20858	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Maras will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20859	Thank you very much, Mr. Pernar. Everything you've said is based on facts. So neither the government is considering the vast majority of our citizens, nor is it doing anything to help her, nor do I see that any of this will be useful. You said well that someone who has 50,000 kunas that money will get no more a month won't spend at all. He can't spend it, he's gonna put it in the bank, and eventually that money he puts in the bank is probably going to borrow the poorest ones through the minuses. So double the damage to our fellow citizens in the end. So instead of thinking about helping everyone or trying to help everyone in the end, it helped a very small number of people. And this is to praise the media, so just look who praises, those who have the most, analysts, economists, so on. Libertians. They're like absolute freedoms, they don't need the state at all. So the state's burden to them, what the state is going to socially protect those who are the most vulnerable. Such people criticize, behave and moralize, and explain to me as if I don't know how good it is to pay less taxes, but we have to get into this situation to see what's right. I'm to pay people less taxes but those with lower salaries, not the ones with the highest wages. We made it with this reform that those who have the highest wages pay less taxes. Well, that's total nonsensense.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20860	Thank you very much. And the last replica is that of the esteemed representative Fury Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20861	Thank you very much. I agree with you fellow Maras that those who have more should be returned more and those who are on the verge of existence should be protected maximumly. But I answered for another, for objectivity, for another thing you said. You said in some countries, for example, in Italy that entrepreneurs pay enormously high taxes and that no one complains. Comrade Maras, everyone complains from small to medium to large. It is one of the biggest topics in general in Italy tax and income tax and various forms of tax. And that's why in Italy they delecate in Romania especially in some other countries. With us a little bit, and the only thing we expect from such reforms or one of the things that we expect from such reforms is to delocalize with us. So it's not true that they don't complain, everyone complains about it. Not only are they rebelling, but they're desperate for it, and the other things you said I support, other things.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20862	The Honorable Representative Gordan Maras will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20863	Thank you very much, Mr. Radin. I wasn't talking about entrepreneurs here, I was talking about income tax. You probably know who Pier Carlo Padovan is, so that's the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Italy, whom our minister probably meets on European councils. And I'll tell you in Italy you have 5 feet to tax income tax. So up to 15000 euros is the lowest rate of 23%. I would like to support here that the minister reduces to 23% instead of 24. That means 1% would be left to the citizens again. So instead of someone instead of 50, 60 kuna, these colleagues of ours in the Parliament would get 120 kuna. So on that side, you'd give it right away. So up to 15000 euros is untaxable, then 23%. So here it is, 15000 euros. So on that side, I'm sorry. No, up to 15 grand is 23%. But on that side, I would support Minister Maric to cut him by 1% of this average rate, but not by 4% the highest rate. Well, what logic does that make? Well, that doesn't make any sense except to help someone with 50,000 kunas. And on that side, I'm convinced that people will remember this reform exactly as it is. It doesn't matter if she's gonna be called Superhik one way or another. People will remember this reform by helping only a layer of people who are already living well and who in some ways do not need to be helped. On the other hand, it did not help those most in need and those who have the lowest wages, and it certainly did not help the pensioners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20864	Thank you very much. Now we're gonna take a break and we're gonna get back to work at 3:00. We still have a few individual discussions. It's 1 335 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20865	Dear MPs and MPs continue the individual debate. The following has appeared individually for the debate by a distinguished colleague, Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20866	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I left my individual debate with the clarified amendment of the Club of HNS and HSU representatives, so I would ask my colleagues from the Ministry for a moment's attention, given that it is by me and acceptable amendments and something that improves the text of the final draft law on amendments and additions to the Tax on Income Act. It's very difficult when only amendments are being made and complemented by some nonsense that exists long in our laws, but now that we have a final draft law on amendments and additions to the Income Tax Act, so we have an integrated text of the whole law, then we can intervene where and before we are not. So the amendment first relates to Article 8 where you wrote commending some interventions in Article 8 but in order to be precise, I suggest that you delete the word for life in front of retirement because all pensions that are consumed for life or put into a state of rest and continue to be life-long, and we have a division of life-long and non-life pensions rather than old, family, disability, early retirement if we talk about divisions, so we do not know that term as such. And I propose that, as in the Life Retribution Act, the purchase of a pension that is the newer date that was adopted by the Croatian Parliament in 2013 that the completion of this article be adjusted and that, instead of the paid-up pensions, it is a matter of life-long payment with pensions. So I think this is correct and then together with Article 21 that you've reshape point 2 of this law gives one whole of it quite concrete. The second amendment is that we don't have to write exactly how we got to the number 3,800 because here the proponent explains that there was a number 3,800 in a way that multiplied the base of the personal deduction by 1.5 and then rounded that number to a hundred. I guess it was either a hundred or he could have written that he increased that number by 50 kuna. I think it is unnecessary to explain, given that this does not have to be linked to the basis that it is unnecessary to explain in what way the amount of 3,800 kuna has occurred as the new untaxable basis. Of course, Amendment Three, I already know in advance that you will not accept it because it conceptually binds itself to more tax rates, three or more tax rates, but it is something that pension societies and pensioners advocate with the remaining more rates with the survival of progressive taxation, so that tax burdens bear more than those who can. It is therefore a wish and a proposal and association of pensioners and Croatian party pensioners and clubs of the HNS and HSU in the context of existing rates this would be of course to refuse because it would be too expensive now with two tax rates. That would be even more expensive than you gave, and there would be even more giving to those who have large salaries and pensions. But because of our different approach, we're in favour of what we've been saying. In addition, the fourth amendment is added in Article 19 of the new paragraph of the tax rate referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article to be reduced by 50% of pension payments. So you didn't make it easy for the pensioners, either at the point where you define tax rates, or at the points where they're relieved rather than in paragraph 24.5 where you said that the tax for pensioners is reduced by 50%. You know, you're making a problem for those who want to find a foothold in the pensioner's law because I don't think they're very prone to abstract experiences of the law, but they like direct relationships, they like to read what they really are. This provision is too hidden in Article 24(5), so we suggest that, I don't know why we're hiding. If we have something hidden from the European Commission, which is why we cannot write in Article 19 that a rate which is 50% less than these two rates referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 19 applies to pension payments. The fifth amendment refers to Article 25, so it is something that stands in this law and does not work since the 7th month of 2001 when the State Treasury was established. Therefore, there is no way described in Article 25(1) that HZMO suspends taxes and is obliged to provide taxes by the end of the month for the previous month in the Treasury. For 15 years, they have not heard a rumor of money, nor have they felt the smell of money, nor have they dealt with it. Therefore, I do not understand why this must be written in Article 25 of this Law when in practice something else is entirely different. They calculate and tell the Ministry of Finance to pay it off specifically to each and every one of course and keep the tax. So this cash flow that's written here doesn't exist, so there's no need for this provision to exist. Amendment 4 is interesting given our current practice. We have a double handling of the tax administration. Namely, the tax administration can also get from three sources from Croatia, BiH or Germany, or Slovenia, just as pensioners receive pensions from 2 or more sources. So Germany is another problem because they tax their pensions on themselves, but suppose it is Croatia, BiH and Slovenia. We have a situation that if the total pension is less than 3,800, the tax administration says you're tax-free. In this case, therefore, the tax administration shall collect all pensions and determine by way of a decision that there is no pension. But if someone has 2000 from Croatia and 2000 from Slovenia in this case is not added, in which case the part that comes from Slovenia is treated as other income and taxed total amount of 2 thousand with 12%, with 12% tax, with a 12% rate, is paid 240 kuna per month, although the actual tax that the pensioner should pay only on 200 kuna and 24 kuna plus a couple of kunas, a total of 26 kuna. So the pensioner pays 24 kuna every month for a year, so he paid the tax administration 2400 and at the end of the year he has to apply for more taxes to get it back to him. So did we burn down to the fact that pensioners with such incomes credit the state? We therefore suggest that in this Article 81 we say that, therefore, the parts of the income are one income that is not another income, that there is a tax administration to behave in a way that sums up the same income, because all of these are incomes from unsustainable work and you have more precisely determined in Articles 39(2) and 21, paragraph 2, of this law and this is essentially just a connection, better arranged these two articles that know that there is no deviation from this rule. So I would ask you to have an understanding of these amendments, nor are they political in mind, but this is a contribution to the quality of this law regardless of the personal vote or the vote of our club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20867	I thank my esteemed colleague Hrelja for the debate. We have one replica. Dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20868	Yes, Mr. Hrelja, the question is how much the average pensioner will benefit from these reforms. I have listened to your exposure as timely as I could and I have come to the conclusion that the pensioners will not profit by this reform as well as by other HDZ reforms. And in the end we see it in the streets of our city and when we see them digging through the trash or, of course, in front of the lines of the soup kitchen in Yukic, Branimir, for God's sake, God forgive me for what's going on with these people. And now what's going on? Instead of this government doing something for them to raise their pensions, to save those people because I remember when a pensioner told me on the bus to Zet, my son said I could burn them alive. That's what she told me, alluding to those MPs who run that policy that pensions are 500, 800, 1500 kuna, which of them can live. Unfortunately we see that this government is simply hearing about pensioners there is no and that this agony, this suffering, this suffering of this great number of people with this reform, they've buried us with papers, I've got a table full of papers and all the other colleagues, this is all, I don't know what to do with these papers, this is one bombing of bureaucracy, and basically it doesn't change anything for people. And for that reason, I support essentially the exposure of my colleagues to Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20869	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for his replica. The reply to the replica of the esteemed colleague of the Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20870	I appreciate your support, but I have some things to say. I am very honest in my relationship with the proposals of laws and ministers and those who propose certain. I also said this morning that in part I agree with the minister and the controversy I had with him that the fight against poverty could not be fought through the tax system. As much as this is interpreted and taken from me, I'll do it again. Because we've put a lot of stuff into the pension system, we've put a lot of stuff in the pension system, and it's hard to get something more favourable out of it to fight poverty without doing any new injustices. There's too much injustice in the pension system, there's a lot of stuff in there and what's in there and what doesn't belong. But what I would agree to agree that the fight against poverty must begin, that there must be a social fund in this country that we are fighting against poverty. It doesn't have to be the primary retirement system that's going to take it. He has suffered enough intergenerational solidarity and reciprocity according to these principles. But we need to create assumptions that there was money that we have here for those who usually receive the highest pensions and the highest wages without need and without anyone asking us that and contrary to our pre-election promises of all parties here is doing this, so we are completely deviating from our words including HDZ, MOST and all of us if we advocate this kind of tax system. So, what I'm saying is that this is what we need to prepare for and protect resources so that we can fight poverty in this country that is becoming more and more unsustainable every day.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20871	I thank my esteemed colleague Hrelja for his reply to the replica. We move to the next debate, we move on to the next debate, distinguished colleague Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20872	... Mr. Vice President. [[Specially enabled.]] So he would refer to the final proposal of the Income Tax Act, which is one of the laws concerning all citizens of the Republic of Croatia from adulthood to deep age. As Minister Maric said, one of the goals of changing the income tax system and dispensing the work of particularly highly educated workers. According to the State Statistics Institute, the average monthly gross salary of workers with high professional training in 2014 is the last official data we have was 12 652 kuna and clearly the highest one was in the activities that have the highest salary. So highly educated experts in financial activities have 14 911 kuna gross and this IT experts around, so in financial services 17 099 kuna and in IT sector 14 911 kuna. I am sorry that this law has not been followed and with assessments of the impact of the law itself on all those to which it applies. We are full of mouths to praise that it is a redundancies of work, that workers in Croatia will have higher salaries of especially higher education that we want to keep in the Republic of Croatia. So here are some simulations that clearly state that this will not be the case and that this is just one cover for everything else that moves in this tax reform, which is that as much as possible on the part of the employers, they have as much profit as possible, and that workers in Croatia do not feel the effect of this tax reform. So the increase in the net salary of highly educated singles will grow between 91 kuna and 133 kuna. Because it's kind of an increase that will allow Croatia to increase consumption, thus increasing production and making it a cover for our economy itself. And while IT experts we talk about will have an average salary increase of 112 kuna. I ask you if this is something we can boast about or need to do, it was necessary to do some other steps rather than slave to the demands of financial capital and employers that are clearly seen through this whole package of tax reforms. Secondly, one of the objectives of these tax laws is that the Ministry of Finance has made it clear, and Minister Maric has repeated it several times, and here I will repeat the achievement of social justice, but when we look at these laws they go completely in the opposite direction. Achieving social inequality and these laws will also produce this after their change. There will be an increase in income differences between workers who have the lowest incomes and workers who have the highest incomes. This suggests that only 6.6% of total legal workers receive a net salary of 10 thousand kuna and more in March 2015. 1 million and 300 million, 1 million and 400 thousand are employed by 6,6% have a salary greater than 1000 kuna that will feel this reform and most others will not even see that reform. Since workers with salaries between 6 and 10 thousand kunas are gross, i.e. 4,5 and 6, 750 kunas will, in fact, grow at least while those of our workers and citizens who have minimum wage will not grow a single kuna. Therefore, it was wise in this law to refer to those who are gross workers in Croatia, the gross employees in Croatia, and these are all those who have a salary of up to 10 thousand kuna and make certain discharges that would lead to them feeling the effect of this reform. Therefore, the SDP has referred to the procedure of amendments proposing the return of three rates of income tax based on up to 2 200 kuna 12%, based on up to 17 400 kuna 24% and more than 40%. This would cause and cause consumption to be stimulated because by simulating data it is very clear that net wages would grow in higher education personnel between 400 and 445 kuna instead of currently proposed 91 and 112 kuna and would also grow to other citizens who have significantly less salaries than these 6.6% that are listed and benefit from this law. If the government were socially sensitive then you would consider increasing the untaxable base by 3800 to 5000 kuna, that these low-income citizens of our country also get part of what our fellow citizens have, looking at the salaries of most citizens in the Republic of Croatia. I'm sorry that with this law the government didn't dare bring and that we still don't have the data, didn't dare bring a new amount of new minimum wage. In Croatia, around 40.3% of the average salary is at present, and in the current law it is very clear that 50% of the minimum wage in the average salary was needed through law enforcement. The law passed led to a deblockation of minimum salary in 2013, but failed to achieve the goal it was, which means that 50% of the average salary is a minimum wage. It will therefore be interesting to see how the Ministry of Labour and Pension System will respond to this challenge, because in Croatia we have more and more employers' demands for workers, but not jobs that are poorly paid, which are insecure but well paid jobs, and the minimum wage is something that is guaranteed by the state that below that labour prices cannot and should not be. What is clear is that it pays now when we talk about a minimum wage that it cannot grow to 50% immediately, but in a gradual increase of 5% a year we can get to what goal it is, and that means that in Croatia when we talk about minimum wage, that this minimum wage is 50% of the average salary, which somewhere in 2018 if we keep this trend would be about 3800 kuna, which means that if we increase it over two years to a monthly salary of 250 kunas more minimum salary than they have so far and that their net minimum wage in 2018 should be at least 3000 kuna, or 3800 in gross amount. These amendments should also look at the amendments to the Pension Insurance Act, where the part that is related to the separation of pensions is abolished, and it goes to the harmonisation of pensions under special rules with pensions that are in line with the Pension Insurance Act, which means that they will grow at a rate of 1,1% more than pensions that are related to the Pension Insurance Act, etc. working pensions which will cost the state 97 million from 2017 to 250 million 2018 and around 2022 and third over half a billion. Those who have high pensions with this will get disbursement, they will have bigger pensions and with what the government proposes they will get another additional impulse and we will make social inequality between those who have relatively high pensions and those who do not have those pensions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20873	I thank my esteemed colleague Miranda Mrssic for this debate. We have one replica. Dear colleague Ivan Klarin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20874	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mrsic, you said in your debate about the labour deficit in the Republic of Croatia. I am simply concerned as a young man that I said in the replica this morning that from today until next Thursday, 1,000 people will, therefore, leave the Republic of Croatia active forces while at the same time more than 140,000 workers are looking for our companies especially in the building. We have cried so much during the economic crisis that the construction sector is being launched, but we now see that simply those people, those people who deal with it, and we know what it means for the state and for the overall budget, will have no one to hire. Besides moving these people out, they're mostly young people because after a mother or a father who goes to Germany, they work as active labour at the best age of course to pull out the whole family. I am concerned about this data, because I say companies in Croatia are looking for 140 thousand new jobs. Not only do we not have them, but simply Croatian companies will not be able to do these jobs. We are specifically, most local self-government units in Dalmatia have withdrawn over a billion kuna from European funds to build a drain system. I'm the owner of the construction companies downstairs complaining that they simply don't have the potential in the workforce to build all of our systems. Here you have, for example, in Sibenik where a Spanish company has already reported to build a drain system specifically in Sibenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20875	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Clarina, for her rep. Reply to the replica, dear colleague Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20876	Thank you very much. We have the same attitude about unemployment and the need for labour in Croatia. It is clear that at a time of crisis and at a time when jobs are closed that labour imports from the countries of the environment, countries outside the EU cannot be approved. But what is now clear to us, what has happened to HDZ in the past four years is a great trumpet about Croatian emigration of young people, but here is now that not a single vote as if nothing was happening, but there are no moves for these young people to stay in Croatia, and the only real move is to pay the worker honestly for his work, provide him with a safe job, a secure salary that these wages can live on. There are over 26 thousand construction workers at the Employment Office, 40,000 workers in tourist occupations, so we have a pool, but we have to pay for them. If we don't pay well, if the employers don't finally give up their extra profits and turn it into workers' salaries, they'll lose their jobs in Croatia, and they'll run out of workers. Is it worth it to a Spanish worker in Croatia for a much higher salary in Spain, there is no reason why in Croatia our employers especially in the building and especially in tourism would not pay the workers a decent salary because for 5,000 kuna waiters in Dubrovnik when they pay for accommodation and food they have nothing left with them. Therefore, it is time for employers to turn the extra profits you have had for years into workers' salaries, to remain young people, but workers from other countries will also come to us if they are well paid and higher than in their countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20877	I thank my esteemed colleague Mrsic for his reply to the replica. The following came up for discussion, dear colleague Marko Veseligaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20878	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Here's the whole reform in which income tax changes are one of the key places that breaks across the back of local and regional self-government. We talked about it here in the Croatian Parliament many times already Croatia remains a highly centralised country, a country where only local units are being transferred to obligations, and real financial decentralisations are not available. The income tax by raising this non-taxable part of income by changing tax classes or by abolishing the highest income tax rate of the local unit will be lost according to the calculations of various independent economic analysts of around two billion kuna. If we add here another tax on the company we come to an amount of two billion and a hundred million kunas, the compensatory measures we heard are estimated at 1.3 billion kuna through aid in the state budget next year itself. But they are only temporary measures, they are measures to compensate for in 2017 and 2018 we do not know anything exactly yet, but in 2017 what is the main problem of getting into one uncertainty. We are entering uncertainty because we do not even know the model through which it will be done, and neither have the potential growth that local units had in 2016 compared to 2015 In Krapina-Zagorje County this growth is about two million kunas, local units have 10 to 18%, the town of Klanjec has income tax growth in 2016 in these first 10 and 11 months respectively compared to the same period last year. Therefore, according to this, the budgets of local units were also planned, according to which these budgets were put and public debates were placed on the public stands of our citizens so that we could still have the benefit of this growth and in a participatory way to decide together with the citizens how we will spend these funds. Through this reform of course there are no such funds and we will have to go to rebalancing already early next year. Elimination of the tax on the company also loses 120 million kuna for local units, we know how big a loss it is but I will not look back here since the subject is income tax itself. What is still very problematic about income tax itself is the way this new Income Tax Act was approached, the elimination of one rate of 40% of the highest rate of 40% I believe is lost here by one principle that taxes are paid according to economic power, that those who have more have to pay more and percentage more. I believe that this is extremely important and necessary for the achievement of social justice, but also for one principle that everyone should respect in society. But apparently, the coming of this government has fallen into a different plan. Here are the amendments proposed by the Club of Representatives of the SDP, and I believe that MPs will at least take part in considering these amendments and perhaps respect them even if I don't expect it. So through these amendments, we've been going through all those principles that I've listed here, principles that all the developed systems of Western Europe that we're trying so hard to come by today. Let's say the U.S. had here it was mentioned eight classes of income tax. The fact is that this reform and this tax, as well as others, are likely to be adopted, so the revenues of the local units will be reduced for all of these reasons that I have stated, so the compensatory measures will not be enough to cover all of this deficit that we will have. The tax on the company has no compensatory measures at all, even though it was in the debate through issues that I personally asked the finance minister that this would be tried through certain models too, unfortunately, we don't have that here, we didn't get these simulation models. And I repeat again, we are entering uncertainty, we are entering into that next year for those needs that are extremely important in local units, so less amounts for scholarships, less amounts for our most vulnerable, there will be fewer amounts for the transportation of high school students. So everything that makes life in a local community. For example, the local community from which I come is a few thousand inhabitants, the county of our eye, a little more than 120 thousand inhabitants, are extremely important such things because only in this way can you keep people there if you have the opportunity to provide them with these basic services, for their children, for their youngest, to build them a communal infrastructure that also belongs to the authority of local units, to support and part of civil society. Here through the amendments to this Law on Contributions and Cultural Amateurs, for example, which create some cultural life in that one community through plays, through the KUD means, through various musical activities, concerts, they will also now have to pay for these copyright fees contributions and also very questionable will come their existence because you must be aware that they also have to pay their leaders. So the key message of income from local units is shrinking, it's actually decreasing to those who have the least, to those who do the most rational business, and it's again suitable for the richest. I appeal to you, however, to accept at least these amendments in income tax that we have proposed, to accept what is proposed and to make copyright fees through all culturalists, in fact I have here on cultural amateurism referred especially because it is important because KUDs are financed from urban budgets and of course they will come towards the city or the municipality and will ask them to increase certain funds Evo, so much of me, I will end up and appeal once again to you not to take on those who have the least and most rational business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20879	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Weligau, for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first to appear for replica was the esteemed colleague Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20880	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. When I listen to you here today, I remember the 7th convocation of the Parliament how many times we've talked about what you're saying on this side. But there's one difference that there was a rough, ugly centralization of the state at that time, which was all over the local level, crushed. And even from those state institutions such as the tax administration and various other institutions, so everything went out locally, everything was centralized and dragged into one place. And I welcome this desire for and new access to the SDP for decentralisation. I'm really glad to hear that. I hope that's what you seriously think, that you're serious, that that's the attitude. And I'll remind you. At that time, the centralization and decommissioning of the system at local level, sending people, tens of miles away to courts, tax administrations, all the institutions that are state-owned, all of them shut down in cities, were sent somewhere else. I will remind you, then, that fiscal centralization was also extremely stressed at the time and that there was definitely no substitute for what local self-government was losing at the time of the amendments to the law. I personally advocate that local self-government has at least 30% tax... And my question to you is corporate tax, and what is corporate tax? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Do those taxes pay the smallest ones and the biggest ones? Is that a tax that really doesn't make sense and that people paid for, we don't know what.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20881	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Hrga, for the replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Marko Vedligaj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20882	He's a colleague of the House. Comrade Hrg, here you are constantly in these acts of yours whenever we talk and we talk a lot about local self-government now you're going back to what was before. I'm not going to say that that reform was an ideal tax, of course it wasn't, of course, here, that then local units lost a lot, of course it wasn't even compensation measures enough. But I'll remind you of one, and our conversation at the City Association, I remember when you said, when we get there, we'll get it back to the way it was. So I'm asking you now is this back to the way it was? Of course not. Of course not, of course local self-government unfortunately loses in there again and loses maybe a lot more than before. I'll remind you, of course, that there were some compensation networks there, and you said they weren't there. It was, there was also a certain increase in income tax, you know that there were certain support for the first and second groups, don't wave your head you know that they were, you know that they were and now you're silent, now you're silent, unfortunately, you haven't stepped into the media around this reform and your local unit will lose again. And the tax on the company when you already asked me what it meant. So, then, look. For me in the city budget, it means about 2% of the budget, it's not small, it means 3%, about 3.5% of the budget. But what he thinks is crucial here at the company tax itself is that in the company tax, it means that local units can and do not need to introduce him. That's where I think it goes directly against even the autonomy of local units and their decision-making. Unfortunately, you know it's one of the guarantees of MOST that, perhaps you don't personally support, I'm not going in there, but it's the autonomy of local units. We support every economic discharge, I repeat again but not on the burden of local units, some local units decide on it on their own, which is why they are actually local units, which is why they are local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20883	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague for his reply to the replica. The next call came from a esteemed colleague, Angelko Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20884	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's a colleague of Vesligaj, you've touched a lot, but you forgot to mention that at the time of the Kukuriku government, Zoran Milanovic's 44 times changed tax provisions, tax law, which led to total tax instability. On several occasions, you stated today that the incomes of the local self-government unit will suffer a fall in income, but you forgot to mention that, for example, the same Milanovic government changed the Income Tax Act in 14.11.2014, which led to, say, the Varazdin County budget of the last year, a decline of 18 million kuna. The budget of the City of Leprechaun 56%. And then there were no compensatory measures, and now there are now billions and 300 million kunas of compensation measures in this tax set and in the budget for next year. So I think we're going to have a little patience to see how it's going to go in the end. I think it will go well because this is the first government to move forward immediately at the start of its mandate with such a comprehensive reform of the tax system which should certainly bring about one tax stability. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20885	I'd like to thank my fellow Striker for his replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague of the Wessligai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20886	Thank you. Well, here's my colleague, Strick, I see this debate is only leading to the past, so let's go, then I'll go back a little bit, and I'll remind you of 2010 when the HDZ government, which was headed by Jadranka Kosor, also through the reform, also took up to 1 billion, to 1.5 billion local units. So let's go back to 2007 when the government of Ivo Sanader actually cut down, i.e. abolished the share of local units in profit tax so that she punished those most developed local units I'll tell you here is the municipality of the neighbouring municipality, meaning the City of Pregrad, the municipality of Hum na Sutla which then lost 5 million kuna and is one of the most successful municipalities in the Republic of Croatia with really strong economic giants. I believe you're familiar with the Vetropack Guard, by OMCO Croatie. There were plenty of municipalities and cities where they are, which lead and means the leaders of your party. Well, if we're going back, I don't know where we'd come from. Look, 44 times that's what you said, but here it must have been in four years. You're on your way now, how much longer than a month you've been here, so you've already got quite serious. Maybe you'll jeopardize that record if you last four years of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20887	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague for his reply to the replica. I remind my colleagues and colleagues that we're in 2016. Next to the replica, dear colleague Ivan Pernar appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20888	Thank you, Chairman. Well, here's what I have to say: I deeply respect and appreciate my colleague, and sometimes I used to talk to him honestly about various questions. And I would like to point out one thing about objectivity, which is that the problems that we face today as a society and a state treasury, or as a budget, are the same problems that we met in the SDP era. And unfortunately, what was the SDP doing? He continued with HDZ's VAT-lifting policy, even introduced fiscalisation, introduced fiscalisation into the markets, on the cherry salary, all from behind is now empty and wasteland. Courgette sellers must be fiscalized, tax terror has been carried out, and you should be careful what type of extra for 10 kuna in the register, Minister Linic closed the register to people, i.e. A store for 10 kuna. And someone stood up to him, sent him an inspection, used the state institutions to deal with the unthinkers. And now watch out for this absurd someone for 10 kuna closes his place, and this Minister Maric, who runs the state budget, has a deficit of not 10 kuna but 10 billion kuna and his shop is not closed, his resignation is not given, on the contrary he will probably get various awards, etc. And just what do I want to tell you? These problems we see today are unfortunately inherited from before and you inherited them again from before HDZ and unfortunately did nothing to resolve it. And today we only have one retro light motive that stretches again and we'll be tortured by who else knows how sorry you are while you're both in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20889	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for his replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague of the Wessligai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20890	Well, here's my colleague Pernar, I'll agree with the part of your debate, and I won't agree with the part concerning fiscalization. You will call it tax terror, but I think it is a general public reaction, with certain mistakes, of course, when you introduce something new, there are always mistakes and mistakes are being learned, but I think we can all agree here that it was a good project, that it is an introduction of order and that some of the EU members who are even more developed than the Republic of Croatia and are applying or thinking about applying that model. And of course, the problems are that have dragged 25 years here in Croatia that are not being solved, I don't need to remind who was most of the time in power during that period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20891	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague for his reply. Next to the replica, a esteemed colleague, Giovanni Sponza, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20892	Here's a esteemed colleague, based on your debate I'll look back at four points from my point of view, an important four point. First you mentioned the continuation and continuity of the process of centralisation and such a rigidly centralised Croatia where I will say only one sentence to make any credibility very good are we today in opposition or yesterday in a position to always represent the same attitude. Secondly, the second point you mentioned said that local budgets, and so on the county basis of the law, were to be delivered to the representative bodies by 15 November this year. That's what the law imposes. This means that the state level does not respect the law of the prescribed obligation. Everyone's talking about compensatory measures, and we haven't had a chance to hear so far what compensatory measures are and we haven't had the opportunity to hear the exact calculation of the compensatory measures. The most valuable thing that makes one state, and thus municipalities and cities are citizens. It's gonna break all over the back of the citizens again. Thirdly, we all say that the greatest degree of consent and consensus should be pursued, and we have simply denied, in one letter, the Tourism Development Strategy adopted unanimously in this House through the VAT Act. We talk one thing, the other we think, the third we do. You mentioned a tax on the company. For some units of local self-government it is income of several tens of thousands of kuna and for some units of local self-government several million kunas. With this law, we reward the bad, we penalize the good, and we go the wrong way again.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20893	I thank my esteemed colleague, Giovanni Sponzi, for the replica. We're moving on to the next debate. The individual debate was attended by a distinguished Croatian Vice-President, Ms Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20894	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs. As with VAT yesterday, I will talk about income tax today only one segment that I think should be considered until the amendments are decided, because a large number of people have fallen out of tax relief. I wouldn't want to argue here that it's a policy by which tax reliefs can only be made by those who are married, and all those who don't live in a marriage community who don't have the right to tax breaks. I believe that there has been a failure to write laws, because unfortunately there is a lot of divorce marriages around us, there are a lot of children who remain in various other forms of family communities and it would not be good to have that kind of discrimination, that those who are married have the right to tax relief others do not. Unfortunately for you, both the stepfather and the mother fell out of this law and the members of the rope family. And it all comes down to custody, which isn't restraint. So custody can have one person with a solution, for example, the Centre for Social Care, and the child can be placed in one of the institutions and the state pays for that child all the costs. So no one's holding him back, but someone's a guardian because that's what the Family Law says. So the guardian and the supporter of someone are two different things. You have a situation, for example, I don't know, here's a plastic I can tell you for example two people, I'll call them I don't know Pero and Anna for easier communication. The feather is the father of the child, Anna is the mother. The pen's out of work, Anna's got a job. So she's supporting Peri's child, so she's not her parent or mother, so one male or female child, she's not the guardian, but she's supporting them. Since there is no foster mother or father in this law, they do not have the right to tax relief. It seems unfair to me, and it is not good, and I think you should consider it until the second reading. There are no other forms of life communities. There is, for example, no relief for those partners living in extramarital communities. We liked it or didn't like it. We needed to see life around us. So there's a lot of people living in extramarital communities. Some 230 thousand families live in the last census, and some 300 thousand children live in those communities. Should we put these children in another way and make it impossible for these parents to have a tax relief for their children they support. So, I don't think you understand what happened in the law. I will continue to vote on the amendment I gave on behalf of the SDP Club to believe that it is a single failure that has occurred to you and that part you have in the General Tax Law. However, I think that the list of all those persons who have the right to tax relief, so the members of the rope family who abstain and what I have now stated should be in the Income Tax Act. And after that, I'll be able to tell you whether or not it's a single failure. Because when a big project like this is done, tax reform can be a failure. I don't want it to be interpreted as a policy, if only the parents living in a marriage community could have tax relief, because it would simply be a degradation of all those other people who live in some other way, and I think they're as valuable to our community as those who live in marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20895	I thank my esteemed colleague Milanka Opacic for this debate. The following has been reported for the debate by the esteemed colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20896	Thank you, Your Honor. Today I have the extraordinary honor of speaking in this House on a subject that is known to everyone, meaning amendments to the Law on profit tax. And basically we see governments changing, even the presidents of these governments change. People who ran the parties today don't lead them, but all the problems we had as a society yesterday have them today. And if it continues this way, we'll have it tomorrow. We are today, as I mentioned earlier, buried with papers. Our tables are full of these papers. I don't know if anyone's even reading all those papers, because I don't think it's possible to physically get to read it all. Finally, there will be a vote on what this government calls reform. However, the reform by its nature should be a change that is systematic in nature, a change by which certain things are applied, i.e. problems are eliminated, and where we actually have a better solution for many social issues in this case part of the tax law. However, I guarantee you that the day after the day after or as our former prime minister would say, the day after yesterday and the next day and today the same problems we have will remain, nothing will change. And then the question arises what is the purpose of this reform? Will citizens live better after changing tax laws? I honestly don't believe it. Will the budget gap be smaller? I honestly don't believe it. Will government debt growth continue in total GDP? It will. Will the total debt of the state grow? It will. I mentioned earlier that Minister Linic was closing stores for ten kunas, our finance minister has a hole larger than ten billion and is considered a successful minister. When I mentioned the question of his way of handling finances and the fact that 35 billion kunas will come next year, he told me to say, Mr. Pernar but we saved on interest 300. And that's 300 million to 35 billion. If you move the decimal, you will conclude that it has succeeded in saving 1% of its acrobatics because 300 million is 1% of 35 billion and even less. What will say is that all the measures that this government is implementing, like all the measures that the former governments have implemented, have not been systematic in nature at all, have not touched the central issue, the central issue of the money-making process, why the kuna in circulation has no, why the state is unable to repay loans, why the sovereign debt is growing year after year and finally why we are forced to cut social rights, to sell out social property, to cut pensions, to pay or not to respect collective contracts, to do pension reforms. Because look I remember when the pension reform was then everyone was saying here we have a reform that second pillar will solve the problems. What was the result of the pension reform finally for the pensioners? Retirement cuts. What will be the result of tax reform? The higher prices of basic products, the undeniable number one, the number two strike on the caterers, the number three watch this absurd, says a colleague from SDP is saying but Ivane we have introduced order. And where did we get the order? We've introduced order amongst the least because look at banks that make huge profits they're excluded from the VAT Act imagine which is absurd. So the bank issue a loan I don't know ten thousand kunas, you give it back to her, like 16, those six thousand banks are preparing don't even have to pay VAT kunas because the bank is free of VAT payments. And someone who sells popcorn that's hidden 100 kunas, 200 kuna to the young man here we'll fiscalize you and we'll introduce order. And finally where did we meet? We found ourselves in a state of long-lasting agony, with no perspective young people leaving the country on buses, people digging through garbage. And if you ask yourself, is this reform going in the right direction? Well, ladies and gentlemen, ask yourselves, will the gentlemen of the HDZ after this reform bus with young people stop coming out? Number one. Number two. Will there be an increase in employment after this reform? Number three. Is there anything going to happen to reduce this terrible poverty that people are digging through garbage in rows in front of the soup kitchens, begging on the street? None of it's gonna get rid of it. Will the state deficit issue be resolved? No, he'll still be in billions of kunas. Someone told me, I can't tell which one of you that the goal of this reform is to take a billion kunas to the caterers, that it will be the effect of increasing VAT. Where do these people give you a billion kunas if that's what any of you are asking. Sometimes I feel like I'm in a cage tied to a crazy shirt and there's nothing I can do. My dear Ivana, my colleague Lackovic told me, the only thing we decide here in the Parliament is the length of the debate, and I feel unfortunately that's the case. Whatever I'm saying, whatever colleagues from the SDP say no matter how rational these arguments are, all arguments will be received. refused when the vote comes you will appear, you will vote and that is it. And then I remember the paradoxical situation when the situation was reversed, when the SDP had most, when HDZ was in the minority, then HDZ, just like the SDP today, made rational objections, rational proposals, appealed to common sense, etc. and the same method that HDZ rejected the opposition proposals now, regardless of whether they were founded or given amendments to the budget in the same way now the SDP proposes these proposals will be rejected as the HDZ proposals were rejected when the SDP was in power. And actually what, where are we now, what is the meaning of this debate, and in advance everything is decided? My people have all been decided in advance that this reform is going on. And in fact, the only thing I have, the only weapon I have is this pay phone, this microphone and appeal to voters to ask if this government is going to solve their problems, is this government going to solve their problems? Will what you propose solve the indifference of legal entities in billions? You know how Linic handled it? By liquidating legal persons. But what happened since the indifference didn't move? Individuality of natural persons began, since natural persons could not be liquidated. We have found ourselves in a situation that the indifference of natural persons has exceeded the indifference of the legal and God knows where this policy will take us. Ladies and gentlemen, under the conditions of a fixed rate or quasi fixed where the kuna is tied to the euro, where all the money is external debt, where every kuna in the wallet that we have is an external debt that we have to repay at interest. What's the perspective of us? What will be the effect of this reform? What's that? What's going to change for people? I want 100 kunas more? So what's going to change when you take 100 kunas from me in a different way? Because the essential thing about any tax reform that was being made was to essentially increase tax revenues. So Minister Maric is not doing this reform to leave more money for the citizens, but rather to take more money from them. And the reason why some items are shrinking, and some are increasing, so my people are saying what my colleague Bunjac was saying about importing radioactive material, I don't know the reactor is going to be tax-free, or the VATs are going to be reduced to the bats or whatever, so that's all the crazyness of my people, to my teeth, etc. I'm surprised that no one in the ruling shouting is able to see it, is able to perceive that problem. But the biggest problem you won't talk about is so-called. tax after deduction. It's a tax that foreign banks, foreign telecoms and foreign pharmaceuticals pay when they extract profits from our country. Right now, when they draw, say, a billion kuna, the tax per deduction is only 15%. If the state wanted to increase its income, it could have increased the tax after deduction altogether instead of this VAT increase and the profit tax. That tax would only hit foreign companies that were pulling money out of our country and eventually the state would have more money left and that money would stay here because the state would spend it again. But unfortunately, these tax reforms are not aimed at foreign banks and foreign corporations, nor are they aimed at introducing order into a large game, but are only about experiencing poverty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20897	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for this replica a little longer. I deliberately told the replica longer – 50 seconds as if it were in the replica. Thank you very much for the discussion. We have several replicas at your hearing. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Blaženko Boban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20898	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear young fellow, I expected that you would propose an amendment in style that you as a parliamentary representative and those you praise be freed from VAT payments for tram tickets at the expense of the pensioners. Since you didn't suggest it, I'm giving up the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20899	I thank my esteemed colleague Boban for his replica. Replication response one minute and 10 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20900	Here's the esteemed sir, when the traffic control came in, I was asked for a ticket, and you all know I stand for free public transportation. If I had bought a ticket by chance, I would have run over everything I fought for. People would tell me – Mr. Pernar you're a hypocrite, you're saying you're for free public transportation, and you're the first to pay for the ticket. I'm a man who works behind his words and if I say I'm for free public transportation, I'm if I'm going to go with that mayoral campaign I really think so. And as for the amendment, I have made an amendment to your amendment to the VAT Act specifically not to raise the caterers to 25%. I hope you'll be the first to support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20901	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for his reply and for his clear attitude. May I have your attention, please? Next to the replica, distinguished counterpart Goran Aleksic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20902	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Pernar, I'm sorry, but the VAT on bank business wouldn't be very good to introduce 'cause that's what we would pay for, not banks. So, absolutely against it. But the problem with banks is that banks are illegally charging interest rates, and nobody's seen it for years, and that's our problem, and the problem is that they've brought six billion kunas to banks without a single kuna tax collection through the bank balance. That's the problem with banks, and that's the problem this Parliament has to solve, and primarily the Ministry of Finance is not doing anything in that direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20903	I thank my esteemed colleague Alexic for his replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20904	Well, Mr. Aleksic, yes, banks draw billions from our country, and the tax on deduction is only 15%. Why doesn't the state raise the tax on deduction? Why wouldn't the bank, when it pulls a billion kuna out of our country instead of paying only 150 million kuna, pay, say, 300 million kuna? We'd have 150 million more in the register of our country right now. We'd have 150 kunas less money out of circulation. So, there would remain liquidity within the country and we could save our own citizens from the tax press. Why doesn't the state want to do it? Because it's the banks that rule the state. You say if you were to introduce yourself to the banks of VAT, that's what citizens would pay for. And who pays all the time for VAT? Who pays for everything we make VATs? Well, we're citizens. So by that, it's like saying if you could free the banks that... the banks at all have a tax because we're going to pay them again. Well, of course we'll pay for them. But I don't see why the banks that make billions of kunas shouldn't be in the VAT system, and the last one is some baker who makes it happen I don't even know what kind of traffic he has to pay the VATs. And Azgan Qenaje was even terrorized because he shared bread. You see what hypocrisy this is, what these laws are, and where this politics leads us, my people. The whole country is rolling into ruin. People come out of them, you have the mortalization of society, children aren't born, and the essential things aren't discussed, but I'm sitting here with all these papers, which one of you reads these ladies and gentlemen? Which one of you reads these papers? Nobody! No ladies and gentlemen! What's the use of all that, then? Why are we sitting here today? Why do we get paid when society benefits from us are gone? This House better not be in session, at least then it'd be saving up on us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20905	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for his reply. The next call came from Giovanni Sponza. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20906	There's nothing we can do with Galam. We're discussing 16 laws these days that someone called reform. Personally, I repeat only, my personal position, for me reforms mean if tomorrow the vast majority of citizens and citizens in the Republic of Croatia want to live better. So this is about several laws and no way of serious reforms. If we look back then we can, we can testify that there are those in the Republic who have had great benefits, great benefits both from the law and from the incentives and the fundamental question of colleagues that we all have to ask ourselves together is the following. Do these laws, those who are socially insensitive and so far have benefited from the state and ate only meat to paint themselves to make them bite and bone, to start building for their employees children's kindergartens, for those who have built systems to allocate money to homes for the elderly. If we want to think about the future of younger generations, for those who will be the bearers of both social and economic activities, whether they are willing to set out as part of their corporations to invest in young people, I specifically mean scholarships. Social awareness of big entrepreneurs except for the facade, it doesn't exist. And I believe that by our actions and legal decisions, we should contribute to making them do it because someone must, we must all get meat together in these difficult times, but the gods of individuals must bite and bone.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20907	I thank my esteemed colleague, Giovanni Sponzi, for the replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20908	Mr. Sponza thank you for your comment and you've actually said what's the point of the whole story, and the point of the whole story is to make it better for the citizens and the state. And if this reform and these amendments to the law led to the state recovering or the people or the economy recovering, I would support them first. I'm not against it because HDZ is the one who proposes it. If HDZ had proposed a reduction in VAT I would not have been against it, I would have been in favour, but unfortunately we see that HDZ does not propose measures for the benefit of citizens, nor does it do anything to make that terrible process that began in the 1990s the creation of a society of 200 wealthy families burdened by millions of other citizens who have been pushed below the poverty threshold to reverse this trend rather than actually continue with politics that these 200 wealthy families will have even more of these changes and the society of poverty left on the other hand will have less and less. And what I do, but I don't blame the HDZ for it, but I blame that poor woman who votes for them, who don't even have a tooth, even if they're going to cut the VAT to the teeth, who, by their choice of HDZ, have shown which way they've pushed themselves to ruin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20909	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for his reply. The next call came from a esteemed colleague, Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20910	Thank you very much. Mr. Pernar, in your debate, you've touched a lot of things that HDZ obviously hurts. One of these things is the creation of a social division greater than it is today. 200 families in the '90s went off a little bit. Now they've transferred it to 2% of employees in our society who will receive thousands and thousands of kuna more. And on the other hand, it's the same model, same pattern of behavior, just a little bit nicer packed. But what's the point, the citizens of all this will have nothing, neither the pensioners nor the employees, will have 40, 50 kuna and you've noticed it well. He'll give them 50 kuna and on the other hand he'll take 100. And on the other hand, it's a good thing you can't support this reform because anyone who thinks about citizens wouldn't do that. I'm surprised at the need to, you know, watch this, lower income tax rate down from 25 to 24 and extras that pay richer from 40 to 36. It's the only message that's already completely unbelievable and vague. Which is why you lower the drop rate so that those who have more to stay with them. It's just a clear answer. The circle of people coming from is the one that makes 50,000 kuna. And people look at themselves, unfortunately they don't think in HDZ about the citizens of the Republic of Croatia but look at themselves if I'm going to get better, that's what millions of our fellow citizens, pensioners, will have nothing to worry about too much. And on the other hand, it's a good thing you didn't support this reform because then you would justifiably have citizens on the road saying you're all the same. And don't be the same because on that side you help the quality of this home and it's not true that we're useless. People say what they think and citizens choose. And let them see from that side who stands for them, and who intercedes for the rich.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20911	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras, for the replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20912	Mr. Maras, I remember as a child back in 1999, and then many hoped that leaving HDZ would make everything better, and so would my family. And I remember that parole "Good life to everyone, not just them." Under these they alluded to this society of wealthy families that you mentioned earlier that it had expanded, unfortunately part of that society were partly and friends of Zoran Milanovic with whom he was regularly photographed. Unfortunately, I'd like Mr. Maras one day to form a government together and end this agony and stop this shooting at us in the Parliament because these people don't make sense. And I invite you gentlemen from HDZ to gather your courage, hold all the institutions, we can free our country of terror banks, we can stop the capital outflow, we can make a monetary reform. I believe that if you would do so, that fellow Maras would see your courage so that he would stand with you. And that we can actually step forward and not keep spinning forward, two steps back. Mr. Maras, thank you very much. You're the man who's most likable to me in this House, and if I were asked if I was a member of the SDP, I'd vote for you in the domestic elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20913	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for his reply to the replica. The following has appeared for an individual debate, a distinguished colleague, Sabina Glasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20914	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is difficult to debate seriously after such outpourings of sympathy and love. What I was looking for got me. So, let's concentrate, no trespasses, Mr. Pernar. I remember in the pre-election campaign MOST was a party that strongly advocated the stance and defended it when it came to power if it was able to manage the state that there would be no tax hikes. What we see from a package of tax laws that we were discussing yesterday, in part today, and we'll be able to see by the end of the day that it's not exactly like that. It is clear that the biggest actually losers of this tax reform, we talked about it yesterday, that the catering sector is privileged and that the preferential tax rate is increased to 25% from 13%. However, nothing less will actually be affected by this tax reform by some workers who earn a living and who are not fortunate to work on contracts at a certain or indefinite time or that they are in a working relationship. And I will devote my debate to legal, legislative solutions that apply therefore to income taxes, but also contribute to other incomes. So in the Republic of Croatia, according to tax administration data last year, 361 968 citizens were registered who achieved a second income that was the only income or other, i.e. an additional source of income and earned a total of 3.8 billion kuna. We're talking about gross profit naturally. Here we can see that one good part of the working population is actually, in some ways, with existing employment relations, with primary incomes earning and earning certain incomes based on other incomes, but in this category of these citizens who have achieved other income there are also a lot of those whose incomes are called or defined as those received from another income. But these are their only receipts and it's actually their only source of profit. If we look at the income tax bill, then we can see, in fact, that it could be very certain that we are destimulating the development of a creative, cultural, educational and scientific sector and that university professors, doctors and scientists are quite affected. Why? So far, all the receipts achieved from the second income have actually been taxed at a universal rate of 25%. The changes, the proposed changes actually change that, and they are actually equating. First, the second income is introduced as a synthetic fee, so the sum of the annual incomes that have been achieved, for example, from unsustainable work, and they will be added to those receipts that have been achieved from the second income and all those who, who cross the incomes above 210 thousand kuna, will have to pay a progressive rate of 36% more than 210. And by yesterday, they were actually paying for those receipts, or that income 25%. It is for those who will achieve less than 210 thousand kuna per year of course that will apply this lower rate than 24, but the question, I think, is the whole problem with this tax reform that we have absolutely no analytical background. And we can't really see from this proposal in any of the accompanying materials, nor in the process of presenting these laws, how much of the people who make the other income could at this point fall into this category, which will be further taxed with this rate of 36% which until yesterday simply wasn't. But one thing's for sure. So, our university professors, doctors, scientists who have their jobs, who have work contracts but do extra research, work at universities, colleges are sure to reflect this on them. And there is a real risk that, that these high-income recipients will seek alternative ways of avoiding progressive taxation and perhaps some of them will resort to work in the gray zone, and therefore the effects of such tax solutions have no purpose. For the service providers themselves, regardless of the work contracts, there is no significant change in the author's contracts. So taxes are accounted for as far as the client is concerned, the method of reckoning is the same. They actually report the same way, and that's about this part of income tax. When we talk about the changes proposed to contribute, there have already been speeches this morning, there is a real serious danger that Croatia's creative and intellectual potentials will be significantly threatened. So the problem with the tax system is that it simply doesn't recognize, so when we talk about copyright works, when we talk about delivering works of art, when we talk about pensioners who make certain incomes like other incomes, it's just not clear. The tax law also treats those who are truly extra earning that other income and those who are poor such as journalists, such as painters, such as sculptors, such as actors, such as musicians, such as journalists, such as translators, are very often persons who rarely have working contracts and their fees are their own, regardless of their artistic, copyright fees, the only source of income, the only thing they provide for their existence. Now, if it decreases, that is, if it is introduced, and it is going to be introduced, it is now quite convenient because this bill has not been changed between the first and the second readings. If introduced, the obligation to pay contributions to pension and health insurance, so on the one hand to pension 10%, to health insurance is 7.5% question whether, for example, employers for a health contribution paid at a gross amount will be extra, means making themselves a higher labour cost, and we know that most of these contracts are actually concluded on a gross amount that will mean that the current cost is likely to be kept by employers, or service providers, and that the net amounts will be reduced to these, so these categories that I spoke about earlier. Protection in terms of health or pension insurance to those who are truly real income will not change anything because certain rights are already realised where labour contracts are made. And to those who are so-called. The second income in the form of fees will be the only income, since they will be reduced to the net amount of fees, it will be possible to boost the business on black, making it even more unprotected, although in this way we may want to protect them. They are already facing major default problems today, with major problems of late payment of fees. Many young authors work in areas of contemporary innovative professions and the authorial contract is not only their only way of source of income, but the only way to even enter the world to call it such work, to gain practice, to gain real experience essential for further professional and personal development. And what Bunjac said in one of his replicas, means our culture, our art, our potential is appreciated in Europe and the world. He has as much value as our doctors, educated doctors esteemed in the world. Now, if this is how we say tax policy, we don't care, we don't care, regardless of all the benefits and those kind of deductions that we have 30% for copyright contracts, 50% for works of art, or copyright. I am not sure that in this way we will encourage the remaining of artists, culturalists in the Republic of Croatia. I fear that they will eventually seek their happiness outside of Croatia in some countries where they do, from their talent that cannot be bought, which cannot be invented in some countries where it is truly appreciated, where it is not so taxed and where they can actually live decently from it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20915	I would like to thank you for your discussion with my esteemed colleague Sabina Vosovac. We have one replica. Dear comrade Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20916	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleague of the Voice. Yes, with this presentation of yours, you've encouraged me to recall some of the events that I've recently personally experienced. Namely, I spoke to a top painter who had just finished the Art Academy in Ljubljana and then asked me if it was worth coming back to Croatia to return. Believe me, I stayed in shock because I just had to tell her it didn't make sense. I really don't see how someone who is a top artist could exist in Croatia when we fail to hire even those professions that are deficited in Croatia. Now, again, we have a proposal that came to the government to import 19,000 foreign workers, because we really only need those workers who work for 2495 kuna. These are the only ones that are welcome to us workers and with the exception of, of course, politicians and bankers. And why do we need some artists who have invested in themselves I don't know 20 years of work since we were kids and now until the academy is over? Who's going to buy their works, who are they even interested in? With us, money is spent on vessels, on aircraft, on yachts, and I believe that some works of art of young people neither interest nor interest, nor have they ever heard of them, and therefore I recommended that they do not return to Croatia for now. I also met a painter just two days ago who said that he could not sell his paintings in Croatia for even 500 kuna even though he is an academic painter. He also packed all the canvass he had and went abroad. Therefore, this country does not worry about its artists, nor about cultural workers, and these proposed tax changes in tax reform only further confirm that with all those reductions, the allocations for science, culture and education that have fallen rapidly year after year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20917	I thank my esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjc for his replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague of the Voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20918	You're right, Mr. Bunyan. You see, now that we adopt these laws, then we will be one of the few if not the only country in Europe where contributions to copyright fees are paid. In the world, Europe is paid taxes on copyright fees, contributions are not. But here we are introducing some new trends. I continue to believe that these changes will seriously harm individuals but also the cultural and creative industry in Croatia. I got one more extensive material written by our creators, so this sector of creative and cultural industries, for example, employs 124 thousand people in the scope of the creative economy. So the total in the working population is around 8.9% and they are indeed one of the most progressive sectors in the Republic of Croatia. They're the sector that's one of the most mobile, which means it's just circulating. He wasn't convicted of Croatia. He is competitive in Europe, he is competitive in the world and now, what kind of message do we send to this sector that is actually art and is the part that builds Croatian national identity because culture is one of the key items if not the most important, is not the most important but one of the key items of Croatian identity, so coffee we actually send here if we refer to our culture and this one most potent part of Croatia's society that needs to lead the progress that is valued in the world, which we should encourage? We say and look, the conditions are what they are, where you might be better off. It's not a good approach. But if there had been an impact assessment, if there had been an analytical background, if there had been an analytical background, that there had been conversations with some people that this reform had been done extensively with much more dialogue, then we wouldn't have done such failures, or at least if we had to do some tax changes, because they would be insignificant indeed. The state here will collect insignificant revenues on this part. But if there was any reason to find some compromise solutions to prevent maybe those who really have high incomes, through this income tax now have a progressive rate of 36% it's okay. But why should this part of us treat the creative cultural industry this way, I don't get it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20919	I thank my esteemed colleague, the Voicer, for his reply to the replica. We've exhausted the debate on these items on the 12th and 13th agendas. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20920	The following is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 19. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by representatives of Nenad Stazic, Bojan Glavasevic, Sabina Vosovac, and the club of representatives of HSS. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. The first amendment is from MPs Nenad Stazic, Bojan Glavasevic and Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20921	The Government does not accept that amendment. Much has been said in the debate about this category of second income. I will only repeat that in order to achieve a level playing field and a fairer burden schedule contributes by respecting the provisions of Article 51. The Constitution which stipulates that everyone is obliged to participate in public spending settlement in accordance with their economic opportunities and that the tax system is based on the principles of equality and justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20922	Thank you. I would ask that respected representatives be shown whether those amendments should be included in the final draft of the law? The vote is over. I find that with 79 votes against, 3 abstentions and 3 for that amendment will not be included in the Final Bill. The next amendment is from the representatives of the HSS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20923	The Government does not accept that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u20924	I would ask respected MPs to make clear whether the abovementioned amendment to the HSS Club of Representatives is to be included in the final draft of the law. The vote is over. I find that most votes, 80 against, 2 abstentions and 2 for that amendment have been refused to be included in the final draft law. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions. Please engage, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most votes are 83 for, 2 abstentions and 1 against the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21210	We now move to a united debate on legal proposals under points 14, 15 and 16 of the agenda, which are: - Final proposal of the law on real estate tax, second reading, P.Z. No. 16 - Final bill on local taxes, second reading, P.Z. No. 17 - Final draft law amending the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 39. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to you in boxes. These legal proposals will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading. You can submit amendments until the end of the debate, Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the parent committees of the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You also received reports at the session. Is it possible that a representative of the motionor would like to do so? Here you go, Mr. Zdravko Maric, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21211	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So a few words like in the previous blocks, here's the fourth block ahead of us these three bill proposals. Therefore, in the proposal for a tax on real estate, as you know, and in the context of first reading, the tax rate is reduced from 5% to 4%, with the right to exempt from paying taxes on real estate sales to citizens who by buying real estate solve their own housing issue. However, the obligation to report traffic by taxpayers is also lifted and the tax is determined by official duty. The complaint made to the Tax Decision does not delay the execution of the solution. What is also important to mention because in this whole package, therefore, the belonging of this tax or income from real estate tax is entirely left to the units of local self-government, therefore to the counties. Which means from their perspective that on the one hand we have a reduction in the overall rate, and now if they get the existing 20% that went into the state budget for their budgets, this change is neutral. The second is the Proposal for a Law on Local Taxes. This law takes over existing taxes from the Law on the financing of units of local and regional or regional self-government. Taxes stay mostly I can say the same as before. But, of course, there are certain changes, which I presented in the context of the first reading, so I will repeat the most important ones. The inheritance and gift tax, application and rate tax are in line with the real estate tax, so from 5% to 4% above all. They're reported by public notebooks and courts. These procedures under official duty as well as in the above-mentioned subject. The tax on road motor vehicles will now be paid in registration or according to this final proposal when registering a vehicle which we believe will naturally make it much easier for you to solve all the problems in one place and this process will not be new and foreign in terms of administrative procedure, because today I am still conducting the administrative procedure in the registration of the vehicle, and for the county, of course, this means their maximum or we can say a 100% charge of this form. The payment of tax on a company or company name shall be abolished. We've known that ourselves since the first reading, and that's the estimated fiscal effect of about 120 million kuna. Since 1.1.2018, we have therefore said that we propose to introduce a simple property tax. It's actually a substitute of communal compensation. So, along with the parallel elimination of taxes on holiday homes and monumental rents. So this transformation, or we can say, involves these two tax forms in this simple real estate tax. The transformation into tax exempts the use of income. So what is important to say remains, of course, the income of units of local and regional, or regional self-government, but it is also particularly important to mention that it no longer has its sole purpose. So it's not dedicated income, it's becoming, of course, original in that sense. The object of taxation as in municipal, therefore the fee was extended to other built properties and building land. The taxpayer is the owner of an independent or non-permanent property similar to the one in the municipal fee. In the case of municipal compensation, the exemption was self-determined by local and regional self-government units. The law is now laid down for the only units for sacral objects carrying out religious rituals, and it is prescribed that the unit can pay its own tax for socially sensitive groups of citizens. But as such, when making such a decision on liberation, it must, of course, have the means to ensure that, of course, their budget will not suffer. The taxpayer is also a state for his real estate. Taxes will be counted on the same principle as communal fees. I repeat what you know very well, so there are three criteria that are primarily the physical indicator of the square. On the other hand, it is intended whether it is for business or housing purposes, and if there is zoning in a particular municipality or city, then that zone as an additional factor or a correction factor. Now according to this new one, we introduce two additional criteria, which is the age of when the property was built, or when it was last adapted. And also the state of that property itself, as I said in the first reading, is in no way intended to build up and introduce additional costs through these two additional criteria because it would then be of course counterproductive and would not make full sense either from the tax and any other perspective. So this is going to be one simpler way of assessing the state of this property. And there's what we've been communicating with the units of local and regional self-government that both the IRS and all other state administration institutions will be available to local self-government to make this as simple and simple as possible. Finally, what we certainly think will help both cities and municipalities in terms of more up-to-date, or records. As regards changes to the first reading, there have been some remarks that, in the context of the debate on the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government of several parliamentary MPs, distinguished MPs Batinić, Panenic and Vesligaj, among other things, we have noted it, perhaps someone else said, I apologize. But we have observed their observations, i.e. the possibility to be exempt from paying real estate taxes by those shareholders who are now exempt from paying the municipal fee on a given deadline, means for the sake of investment in the municipal infrastructure and, among other things, that the expression itself is technically and unambiguously harmonised. There were high-quality and valid observations from the Committee on Legislatives, but in general we, at the government level with the relevant ministry, fully aligned it. And the third law was actually a law that eventually became the 16th law of this package, but it's not the one we're talking about, which is the Law on financing units of local, or regional self-government. Therefore, the adoption of this law was initiated by the Legislative Committee for the simple reason that this law actually changes and that is to say throw out those provisions that enter into the Law on Local Taxes. So it's just one technical thing. So he's prepared later and it's the only law of all these 16 that goes into emergency procedure. Here's what we can use. I will make this opportunity, of course, to make our apologies, but again I repeat, it was an idea, or a proposal from the Committee on Legislatives. We adopted him as such. But what I also want to say, because it was between the rest of the speech and the course of this morning's debate. I will repeat once again that in fact, in the next 6 months, by the middle of next year, we will create a new integrated, comprehensive law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government that should enter into force 1.1.2018. For 2017 we stick to a temporary solution, so a transitional solution how and how to compensate units of local and regional and regional self-government. This loss of, caused by the proposed changes in the income tax system. So I will repeat once again, so that this compensation will work at the level of the difference between income income from income tax made during 2016 and income from income tax that will take place during 2017. Technicals and the whole mechanism will be prescribed as was the case in the 2017 Act on Budget Implementation, which will be on benches for some two weeks, and it will, among other things, predict that by the 15th of the month, at the monthly level, pay this compensation, i.e. the difference will be paid. At the same time, activities in the state budget under the division of the Ministry of Finance to assist units of local and regional self-government are maintained. I said this morning at this point there are at least four criteria to which we distribute it. Surely, the problem of funding local self-government should be seen not only from the perspective of one law, but also from a wider perspective, regional development and everything that relates to it, and what we have talked about before. Therefore, the revision of the development index, i.e. all of these criteria, which ultimately involve any funding, was an overall policy of regional development, i.e. a more even development. And, of course, that third element is what the so-called "separations" are. the decentralised functions we have announced that, within the 2017 budget, they will go from the division of resolution ministries which, otherwise, have in their scope precisely those decentralised functions. So if we're talking about education, it's safe to go from the Department of Science, Health, the Ministry of Health or, say, a similar story to social policy. Here, that's about my opening statement. Of course, we stand at your disposal for your comments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21212	I would like to thank Mr. Zdravko Marić, the Prime Minister of the Government. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a respected counterpart, Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21213	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister Maric, I am absolutely against the introduction of a re-tax on real estate for the first real estate in that volume of 50 square meters plus 15 square meters for each of the next families. I was going to make an amendment. However, I have seen that there are already two such amendments, so I will support those amendments. I don't think that's good because in the state budget it's kind of a small item, it's not a huge item. But there's a huge item in that man's pocket that buys that first property, but first of all it's about young families. If we want to help with demographics, then we need to help young families not to have a great cost of buying their first real estate. In fact, it would be good to even introduce tax reliefs on the interest they pay because on that interest, the state in one part will charge a profit tax because interest is the profit of the bank. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21214	I thank my esteemed colleague Goran Aleksic for his replica. The reply to the replica of Minister Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21215	Thank you, Your Honor, for your comment, and there were no questions, but ultimately a comment. I'll explain again what we said in the first reading. Surely this is one of the measures that we propose, which, among other things, extends the aspect beyond the tax system itself, we cannot say that we are completely satisfied and happy as it has imputed to me in the context of the first reading. But I'm still gonna do it again. So, at this point, practically from 1.1.2015, when this transitional period of one year and a half days after our formal start of membership in the European Union came out, you could not actually use this first-ever real estate relief for a simple reason, because the new real estates are actually not even covered by real estate tax anymore, but only in terms of value added tax, while this relief was kept exclusively for used property. For reasons of alignment and harmonisation of these criteria, we went with this proposal. One smaller compensatory measure is to reduce the overall rate of real estate tax from 5 to 4. You have all learned well that I do not like to promise very much, even in the Croatian Parliament. But I'm sure we'll look at the next stages to further reduce this rate and bring it down. We've been thinking that we're already going at this stage with 3%. However, what I want to apostrophe is what you have heard and probably heard, although the whole package is still not ready for a public debate or presentation, that at the government level within the resolution ministry, the Ministry of Construction at the head of which Minister Kuščević is working among other things on one model which, of course, would make compensation much more significant than this first one I spoke about and that would certainly facilitate the purchase of the first property for young families or new families that work first where there will be no difference between new and used real estate. I mentioned in the first real estate, say Nuštar or we can mention any other city or municipality in Croatia where there are simply no new properties. So, he also wants to find a systematic solution which on the one hand solves the problem at first, but at the same time sends a clear message that it is not only a social moment in this matter, but it is important, of course, economic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21216	I thank the Honorable Minister Zdravko Marić for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21217	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister Maric, you spoke very strongly. I believe you believe what you're saying. However, I must warn you of the life experience that I said in the replica the other day, sometimes you have to listen to older ones in order to perhaps understand something. I don't mean myself and I've listened to older ones. You see, when I was a child, then I heard from the elderly, they said, "He is the meo of the ceiling." I thought it was a man who was a cleaner or something. It was only later that I realized that it was a kind of tax after II. World War II when it was a very difficult situation. People came and picked them up from the attic what they had cereal. However, people accepted it because it was necessary to feed the army. And it makes sense to feed the army because there we, not loved by Bulgarians, the Austro-Hungarians, hate us Japanese, and in that sense every tax if it makes sense for people to accept it. So when you say the real estate tax is going to be a substitute, the municipal compensation substitution can't possibly accept it. Once this tax is introduced, he will no longer have anything to do with the communal compensation. Either cancel the communal fee or leave it, or say we're introducing a real estate tax because this has nothing to do with each other. The communal fee was a dedicated tax. I can tell my chief tomorrow - Mr. Chief, I have to go to the cemetery in my boots, and I'm paying you a communal fee. Real estate tax has nothing to do with it. So neither is it intended, nor must he use it for that purpose. So it's not good for people to say it's a substitute for community compensation and I'll never agree to that. And trust me once the real estate tax is introduced, it will only grow and in the end it will actually forget what you said today and it will be a huge blow to the citizens, especially since we must have such a large majority of citizens own their property.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21218	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Sagar, for the replica. Reply to the replica Mr. Minister Zdravko Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21219	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, thank you very much for your comment and your question, or everything about it. I can, of course, agree with you in part with what you're saying, and I mentioned in the introduction, so whatever we call it now is a substitution instead of something like that, but the fact is, since 1.1.2018, according to this proposal, the communal fee is no more like that. But some basic principles and principles of municipal compensation are included in this simple real estate tax. I'll do it again. It works with above all on these criteria which actually mean that we are not ready for a value tax on real estate or, above all, we are doing it on the principle of certain physical indicators, primarily squares and some of the other criteria that we are adding to it. We will not be the only EU country that does not have a valuable property tax system. Among other things, one of us is relatively close but much bigger than Croatia, Poland has this model that we're here about and we're proposing has a lot of similarities with what Norway has and that I'm not counting any further. But the fact is, we think that this is how we do a few things. Among other things, for local self-government, the big thing is just to take off this purpose because it really becomes a real tax and not a fee, so there is no more purpose spending, at the same time, constantly and constantly repeating, I think many of you who are the heads of cities and municipalities who have, for example, gone with updating these records and all over the past years have actually recorded a significant increase in income. These are also some other EU countries, in fact, their experiences have shown. And generally, we think this is one step forward. But I must also point out that this is among other things one measure that we are also in the national reform programme that the European Commission has asked of us, because, by all indicators, whatever we have calculated and the communal compensation and everything that is related to it, Croatia in terms of taxation of property is therefore far below any EU average. Surely this element that you have said is true, of course, and that is that the ownership of a residential fund in Croatia is also above average. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21220	Thank you. The reply to the replica to Mr. Zdravko Maric. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Ana-Marie Petin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21221	Thank you, dear Vice President. So I am interested in paying taxes on road, motor vehicles, since this is the case, means in a specific case in the provision of payment services for 3 persons, so in your name and for your account in the function of intermediaries, the legal person you are proposing is obliged to have a contract with a financial institution on whose behalf and account will carry out payment traffic, such as the press, gas stations and other legal persons performing payment services as bank intermediaries. In this way, it is achieved that the price of payment service for citizens is far lower than that of the same service being paid at the vehicle's technical inspection stations. So, according to the current proposal and the current state of this law, I ask you, since this tax will be paid at the technical inspection stations, how much citizens will have to pay that fee to the technical review stations, which will also be increased by 25% of VAT, of course, while so far they have been able to pay the internet for a maximum of two kuna banking fees or in the Press by 3.5 kuna fees, all without VAT because financial services have been exempt from VAT payments. In the event of compulsory application of the Payment Law for the provision of payment services and in the passenger service stations for the technical examination of the vehicle, public revenues will already be the same or the following working day on the accounts of the users and there is no need for their distribution and subsequent transfer to the account of the user. The same case proposed by this law is already in practice applied to the payment of annual road charges and environmental compensation, so a legitimate question arises as to who it is and why you allow the technical inspection stations to carry out payment services for third parties contrary to the provisions of the Law on Payments and that citizens are forced to pay 6 times the price for this service by means of sublegal acts in relation to market prices.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21222	I thank my dear colleague, Ana-Marie Petin, for the replica. And a reply to the replica, Mr. Zdravko Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21223	Thank you very much. We also had this discussion in the context of communication with the County Association. I think I can accept, of course, your comments, esteemed MPs, because you point out and show concern for Croatian citizens, of course, but of course we also take care of it. I repeat once again, the key element that we believe is that we are just meeting citizens in this way, that in one place they are solving all their obligations and you can certainly expect that it will not be the only law that will prescribe, but that there will be certain sublegal acts or rules that will prescribing or that will bring units of local self-government that will ultimately make sure that we don't go into some kind of column that you're talking about. But I also think that, to date, this has been regulated and settled in one appropriate way, first of all, in this environmental protection and energy efficiency charge, so that green form that we all fill out and pay ultimately on the spot when we register the vehicle. So we certainly take care of these financial aspects, not to put any extra burden on citizens, but I think in this case, the key element is to simplify the whole process so that you don't actually have to go to more locations for one and the same base. So far as it has been a practice to send it in the mail and with some kind of a certain distance, so there have been, normally certain gaps, both for local self-government units, problematic for the reasons of collection and also for citizens that today normally have problems about it. So we think that there is still a much more quality solution and this danger that you point to, thank you very much for that, but I think that they will be adequately in the rules and in the sublegal acts solved, regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21224	I would like to thank you for your reply to the replica of Mr. Zdravko Maric. We're moving on to discussions on these agenda points. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS for the debate, a distinguished colleague, Mile Horvat, applied. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21225	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable ministers with their associates. I will state the position of the SDSS under these two laws, the law, the proposal for a law on real estate tax and the proposal for a law on local taxes. So the proposal for a law on real estate tax, i.e. real estate tax is no news, it's an old tax system, we've now reduced the tax rate from 5 to 4%. The promoter probably estimated that this would have certain effects. What is the basic question here, therefore, in order to implement this Real Estate Tax Act in a quality way, must create general social assumptions. First of all, we must finally finish the job of taking care of the garters, finally we must arrange the cadastre and end the legalization of the facilities. Why do I say that? Because the data suggests that there are about 3350 Catastrian municipalities in the Republic of Croatia and for 219 municipalities there are no land books at all. 64 catastrian municipalities are in the process of rebuilding land books or establishing new land books. And now that you're saying that in a Gorski Kotar in the Ogulin area of 17 Catastrian municipalities, you don't have land books and that some land books have been put out of force since 95. We're talking about some real estate traffic here, we're talking about some perspective for development, about European funds, about fund money, about projects that need to be connected to real estate. So these things are the basic assumption that the Real Estate Transport Act would be implemented. Here he set up some two dilemmas even though they are not of great importance, but when it comes to the category of taxpayers, it is said that whoever buys the realtor is the realtor, so the one who buys the property is the taxpayer. So my kind of dilemma is and the question is, we learned in college that a taxpayer who benefits from real estate traffic, so he who sells real estate. We see here now that it's the one who buys real estate and it's mostly a citizen because they're all left free from paying taxes. It's a matter of discussion. The second thing I would say in Article 13 is the prescribed forms of liberation. It's very good that you're a category of citizens who buy a residential building where they had a tenant right or that category of citizens that was protected by the tenant you freed from paying taxes. I will remind you that in 2013, we made an amendment in that sense where we asked for just this kind of exemption from real estate tax. And that's why it's good that you put it here. However, in point 6 of Article 13, you said that he was exempt from payment, they were exempt from paying sales taxes on real estate persons in accordance with the regulations governing the conversion of social property of another form of ownership. A pretty general definition but the basic question is why do we release people who participate in the conversion, why do we exempt them from paying real estate tax? We're talking about some kind of tax that needs to boost the fiscal capacity of municipalities and then I say there in the second part, in the second law that these are gambling, boats, car registration, etc. And we're not gonna say the basic thing. We've made it possible for people to buy hundreds and hundreds of acres through the agricultural land supply program. In my area, people have a thousand acres of property and now whoever bought such hectares gets from the state an incentive of 300 euros per hectare and gives the state nothing. An even worse version of the concession on such a country is absolutely the perverse income of local self-government. And if someone in Baranja has won the conversion of 15 thousand or 20 thousand hectares of land to which he pays 350 kuna concessions per 30 years and the farmer pays 200 euros 1500 kuna rent, then the difference to the market category should be the original income of the municipalities. How many kindergartens, social homes, sports facilities could be made if that concession was real? This is how we gave the man or owner 300 euros per hectare and the taxes from the citizens paid him a concession of 50 kuna and damaged the budget of local self-government. And that's where millions and millions of money lie and we're talking about how some kind of fiscal move is going to strengthen the fiscal capacity of local self-government. Of course we think we should keep our first real estate tax due to the stimulation of young people, but now I've got an explanation from the minister and it's acceptable. I think you'll find some sort of substitute for this kind of stimulation, I don't doubt it at all, even though the realistically speaking experience of the last two years says that anyone who can't get a job can't even buy the first real estate, can't even pay for it, and it's no regrettable stimulation. Therefore, this applies to those people who still have a stable job and who can have a certain credit rating for the banks to buy first real estate. As far as the law itself is concerned, the proposal of the Law on Local Taxes here has been clearly stated in this proposal since 1.1.2018, and in principle of simple taxes, the criteria of which we have established here in this proposal and from the 1st month, 1.1.2020, we will have the obligation to tax all real estate by so on. The full principle, in principle, of value of real estate, will be quite one other criterion and another tax liability for citizens. And that's what we have to tell the citizens. But it's not our product, it's something that's given to certain elements of the European Commission, the European Semester, the state, it's what the government has installed in its programme, in the 4th month, the government has reported it to the European semester, and these are the frameworks in which we have to move, so that's what people should be told. And now within these frameworks we're trying to develop a system that will be functional for us if I get it right. In this system I have a little bit of analyzed now and in the second reading of this chapter and would only comment on the taxes of units of regional self-government, inheritance tax, gifts, road, motor vehicles, vessels, entertainment game machines is something that is available here. But I come from a middle where it won't have any big fiscal effect. And imagine what it's like in one Kistanje, what it's like in Voćin, what it's like in Markusica, what the financial effect will be when you don't have any donations. You almost don't have any heirlooms. Road motor vehicles are oldtimers, so when you buy a new car, it's a sensation. They're all mostly ten years old. So we don't have any expected income. It's clear that we'll have to pay all that stuff there, so we'll have to pay first all the fines we have on the bill, then only then pay taxes and then just register a car that's about 10 years old, 15 years old, and then there'll almost be no big profits. Boats, boats in this part have no registration, and also machines and gambling in one village bar have one, possibly two automatics so that it is not some special source of income. But here, it's at your disposal. In consumption, actually in consumption tax, here I would say something that surprised me, Article 22 of the consumption tax is paid on the consumption of alcoholic beverages (wink, brandy, heavy drinks), natural wines, special wines, beer, non-alcoholic drinks to catering facilities and it is 3% and it is on the dispensation of local self-government. If they decide, they can introduce that tax. If they decide it, then my 25 per cent increase tax, so we raised VAT on tourism, which we're discussing for alcoholic drinks to 25%, is not VAT to 25%. That's plus 3% of this local tax. It means it's going to be 28%, and that's what people should be told not to be surprised. Or did I miscalculate? I'm allowed to be denied. What's most important to us is real estate tax. The coefficient on the property is one interesting category. It will be a matter of disposing to local self-government or council. There is only one reserve whether it will be the subject of manipulation for political purposes, so someone will categorize it like this, someone categorizing what is some other political option. Especially when it comes to valuable objects such as hotels, apartments where these slides are very large and very possible. So that's one of our reserves. We would say here that we propose that in Article 37, and we have proposed by amendment, one correction is to be made from the coefficient of the condition, so the state of the facility as it is to add a new definition where the facilities covered by a state project called the renewal and return project for which there is a record and where there are no more than a thousand such cases where the coefficient of such a state would be estimated at 0.0. So they're taxpayers. A tax solution would be issued, but until the reconstruction is completed and these objects are put into operation quite logically are not in some normal state of use, this coefficient should be 0.0. I think it's something that would be like a model satisfactory to the promoter and to that category of people waiting for the completion of the restoration. This is where we said the whole job would be done by local self-government. So they're going to have to evaluate, issue solutions every year, go out in the field, categorize these things. In small municipalities, that's not the problem. Big cities will be a problem. Bigger places will be a problem. And then we say that we're going to limit these people to 15% of their income in local self-government. Salaries will be limited to 15% of the original income, that's something that's being told in public, etc. And with this we add new jobs besides those they already have, we burden them with some new things, and we're thinking that local self-government is reduced to the fact that they can dispose of their wages within 15% of their original incomes. I don't think that's good, and I don't think this way we're doing much less local self-government. We will support these legal proposals because we appreciate your efforts in this work that you've been doing and the idea of making a certain tax reform. But what remains is our impression that this tax reform will benefit more developed areas, less will feel it, or almost in no way will it feel these areas that are more passive, areas with a population depopulation. Of course we who are from the continent live in that situation with a certain amount of envy. We are looking at the area of the Adriatic, the sea where real estate and real estate traffic are very attractive, desirable and lucrative work compared to some of the areas around Western Slavonia, like where you have no one anywhere, and you do not expect to earn something from selling real estate. It is also a big question and great, so great justice must be carried out on the ground when assessing the value of those production by objects next to housing facilities, so that it does not turn out that the man who has the space for 20 sheep must pay a tax like the one who deals with serious business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21226	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Milly Horvato, for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21227	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Horvat, thank you for the clarification on real estate tax, so this is actually a alignment with EU regulations. If I think so, then I really get into a situation where many directives, many of the regulations we've adopted, are not ready for them. So logically, if I'm watching, I think it's like this, that communal compensation is something that we pay to improve living conditions around the house, about real estate. So, thinking about water supply, draining, lighting, everything that actually makes life better. Real estate tax is about real estate. When you mentioned Voćin, you reminded me that many Voćin municipality citizens are Croats who came from Kosovo from the Letic municipality still have no real estate legal relations resolved. I don't know if it'll be done by 1.1.2018. What if it doesn't? They're probably paying communal compensation now because that makes sense, because it's not about real estate, it's about their living conditions. Then what's it gonna be? Then will they have to pay a real estate tax that isn't even in their possession? And will that even be legally possible? So, before this tax comes to life, there is a lot of work to be done, and I think there is little time and yet I say that citizens will be very uncomfortable when this tax comes into force and with time it will only be bigger and come at risk to many, many owners. I think what my colleague Pernar was saying about the dangers we see in our performances today was for the HRTs is a children's game compared to what can happen to us in the future if people can't pay this tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21228	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Sagar, for the replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague of Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21229	Dear colleague Žagar, therefore the fact is, I said that this is the default size of these, this set of tax laws is something that is required of us and we didn't have any big space here except to make in this transitional period to full taxation, to a full model that will be based solely on the estimated value of real estate that will therefore, in that case, the tax liability will be much more drastic than this form of taxation. So that's what we had to do. The only possibility is that in that transitional period we can adapt and tell people what's going to happen. Of course, the communal fee had its function, it had its purpose, and I don't think this tax would meet that purpose that it had a communal fee, it was kind of my opinion and my experience. But it would have been a good idea if the motionor had made some kind of assessment, some sort of approximation of the effects of these tax solutions, and then maybe it would have been easier for us to discuss.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21230	I thank my esteemed colleague Horvato for his reply. The next call came from distinguished counterpart Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21231	Thank you, Vice President. In your presentation, you mentioned the introduction of real estate taxes and mentioned a number of municipalities that are poor fiscal capacity, and should be said that, along with the head, it is rare that the municipality has another or two employees usually for these very municipal jobs, the office of the cemetery and the like. And that's what I'm saying, they don't have the capacity to do their own elaborates on the value assessment of real estate, zoning even though the minister said they'd be at the service and the grantine and the cadastre and everything. But apparently they will have to hire or hire an agency that will do so for them, because they themselves do not have these capacities, so my proposal to you and those who have proposed the law so that just for those municipalities of the first, other groups of assisted areas should do so on their own cost because these units of local self-government will not be able to do so themselves. It is also mentioned in this law that certain properties owned by units of local self-government are not subject to payment of real estate taxes, and we know that in some areas there are voluntary fire companies that have created voluntary fire homes themselves and that they have grant possessions. Well, it was in the first reading of the proposal to include it in the exemption from paying real estate taxes. I don't see that being appreciated, and I think you agree with me that it should be classified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21232	I thank my esteemed colleague Vlaovic for his replica. Replication response, dear colleague Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21233	I absolutely agree with you that a circle of users who are exempt from paying real estate taxes should also be extended to these. But the fact is that we've been working too much pressure lately on local self-government. Instead of turning things around and decentralizing it and creating local self-government as much space and resources as possible. So, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, we'll, uh, we'll, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, uh, And it's not the logic of local self-government. I think the units of local self-government and in these 25 years worked well, that they had matured, that they had learned how to do the job, that they had prepared themselves for this second phase. Some are not, but most are the communication phases with European funds. Therefore, I think that local self-government should be financially strengthened, so the funds should be maximum decentralisation and not choked. And that would be the right way.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21234	I thank my esteemed colleague Horvato for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Maria Puh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21235	Thank you, Vice President. So here's what I'd like to mention on a similar subject, you said it wouldn't be a problem for the smaller units of local self-government to determine the facts and write. I wouldn't agree with you. So, municipalities and cities remain unaccounted for by corporate tax. Tax on holiday homes is abolished, municipal compensation is lifted. The municipalities that have already had a communal fee and who have calculated the municipal fee even though they have an existing list they will have to supplement that list, they will have to put the age of the facilities, they will have to put the condition of the facilities. I'm asking you who's actually going to do it because so far when it comes to selling or some real estate, it means the condition of the facility and the age of the facility has been determined by the court witches. Whether municipalities and cities may have to pay court warlocks to determine this, these are not small amounts. And let's say the smaller municipalities in my area usually have three employees at 50 square miles and 5,200 inhabitants. So they're already in their line of work, they're really loaded and doing absolutely everything. Now who's still going out on the ground to re-list all the objects that exist, I think it's almost impossible, plus that they're going to have to keep up to date, monitor the state and changes that are going to happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21236	I thank my esteemed colleague Maria Pooh for her replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21237	I'd like to thank you colleagues for what you said. So I now have another new knowledge, you must have a lot more experience in that part of the job and I see you're dealing with the fact. I wouldn't have anything to add here, except what I said, I think that local self-government has been underestimated, I think that reverse things need to be strengthened, need to be decentralized and given additional sources of income to deal with these jobs and with the one that's just about to come bearing in a proper quality way.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21238	I thank my esteemed colleague Horvato for his reply to the replica. We've exhausted all the replicas in this debate. Next for discussion on behalf of the Club of Representatives Let's change Croatia and SNAGA's application to the distinguished colleague Ivan Lovrinović. He's gone, he's out of sight. Thank you. Next up for debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, distinguished colleague Ana-Marija Petin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21239	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, here I have to look back at these taxes on road vehicles because we haven't received a reply from our finance minister, which is why it's simply an obligation to charge taxes at the technical inspection stations and what it's going to be, is we have the knowledge that the fee will be or so paid for the other taxes paid at the technical inspection stations or fees that will be up to 17,5 kuna increased by 25% of VAT is more than 20 kuna. So now that a million-and-a-half cars are being registered annually, it is the income to stations for a technical review of about 30 million kuna and, of course, the state takes several million kunas of VAT there, so we believe that this is completely unnecessary because unfortunately people live very badly in Croatia today and for differences in the price of yogurt, bread or milk walk several hundred metres from the store to the store to pass, so that we believe that this amount would also take a walk or drive to FINA to another place where they will pay a much smaller fee. So we feel that this is completely unnecessary and that this is not how such a legal provision should be made that it is mandatory to pay taxes in the cells for the technical examination. And as the question was yesterday, we ask, and now, who's going on here? Likewise, when we talk about real estate tax on behalf of the HSS Club, we have also proposed an amendment to be voted on tomorrow. I ask you to adopt it because the current coefficient for the calculation of the municipal fee in accordance with Article 27. The Law on the municipal economy for non-building construction land has a prescribed coefficient of purpose for construction land of 0.05, and now its determination of 0.5 means an increase of ten times without any justification for the change. In the light of the law, it is stated that nothing is changed in relation to the existing coefficients for the calculation of municipal compensation, and now we believe that there has been an accidental failure to prepare the text of this bill, so here we are asking the Proposer to give our amendment an honor and to return the percentage to 0.05, not 0.5 as provided for by this bill. Likewise, when we talk about real estate tax here we have a few specific cases right from my county of Virovitica-Podravska, from my city, this is an example of an unfinished house that began to be built some twenty years ago. The house was built until the first blanket and so it stands if people couldn't finish it, they didn't have financial opportunities. The house has not yet been paid public compensation, but the introduction of real estate tax will have to pay real estate tax precisely on such a house because it is laid down in the law that as soon as the construction is started, the property tax must also be paid. I'm also asking the same question this way and the promoter about our farmers, as far as our farms are concerned, built from an operational programme. We all know what kind of problems they're in and that credits are all very burdened, that these farms are mostly released. Also so far, they have been released from payment of municipal compensation, and from now on our farmers and those buildings that simply no longer serve their purpose because they have unfortunately failed, simply since 1.1.2018, and on these buildings will have to be paid real estate tax. There is, of course, the possibility for municipalities and cities to free such cases of paying real estate taxes, but in that case, they must provide funds on the spending side, and since we know that local self-government units as well as counties are also a very bad financial majority, and with this tax reform they will still run out of more funds. They will probably not be able to provide these funds on the spending side, and so in such cases, both our farmers and our social cases will simply be forced and will have to charge real estate taxes. Here's what we're asking the promoter to do once again the law they put here in Parliament for a second reading. We don't think he's good. We believe that it goes to harm and burden to its citizens and simply because of all citizens who will have to pay another burden after 1.1.2018, and now they live badly. Here we appeal for this law to be withdrawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21240	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Ani-Marie Petin, for this debate. We have two replicas. The first one was answered by an esteemed colleague, Ante Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21241	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for the distinguished representatives of the ministry. Dear fellow Petin, here's a clean copy of you regarding the discussion of these payments at the technical inspection stations. You're working at the local administration as well as I know. And you know how hard it is to charge taxes when it's the city, the county. We've got a lot of problems here. If you remember when we charged public lighting, then we charged it through electricity prices. For when he comes to charge the electricity, then surely public lighting will be paid. Today is a big problem when you go to charge for public lighting. It's the same with all the taxes the city has. And there we would have to hire some people who will work, or county, who will work on tax charges, and the charge is problematic or very difficult to charge as well as the communal fee. You know that we have some cities and municipalities that at all or very, very difficult to charge communal compensation or a very small percentage of the municipal fee. Well, then you're going to run errands, lawyers, and a hundred new problems. It's not popular and it's safe when we go public with it and we say, "You know, now you're going to charge 17 and a half kuna, like you said. You can buy yogurt and milk, and when we tell people like that, they'll say, "Well, that's not right." But if we could sum up the costs you have in local self-government units or regionals, then those prices would be just as high as building land. Building land is a resource, and all of us, when we change our spatial plans, want to expand our building land. Everyone says, "Give us my plot of building land." But it's not right for the local administration unit to have someone book a building plot and keep it reserved for a large number of years. Because then you disable others who would like to build, work, expand building land for real needs and for citizens. So I think here's what you can polymize about these issues.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21242	I thank my esteemed colleague Anti Sanader for the replica. The reply to the replica is the esteemed colleague of Ana-Marie Petin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21243	I thank a esteemed colleague of yours and I know that municipalities and cities as well as counties are very difficult to reach their resources. But we simply don't want to burden the citizens and we want to allow this tax to be paid elsewhere. It doesn't have to be just at the technical inspection stations. There may also be other places where they will find much, much cheaper fees, and yet municipalities, cities and counties will come to their resources. As far as construction land isn't built, here's a case I've just told you. So now it's about an older family who didn't have the resources to finish her house. It's just that even that house isn't in any attractive location, there's no buyer of its own. You know, from Slavonia from small places, that people move out. There's not much demand for such objects. Houses are empty and now the introduction of this property tax will have to pay taxes because if municipalities and cities are free to pay taxes they will have to book, therefore, in the budget on the spending side and automatically block their funds. That's what I was talking about. It's about specific cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21244	I thank my dear colleague, Ani-Marie Petin, for your reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21245	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow Members, I would refer to undeveloped building land that can essentially become a problem for the development of certain settlements and local self-government. Because the fact that 50 percent of the construction land not built, that you can't get an extension for someone who needs more building land, means someone who keeps the building land under construction for decades, and 50 percent of the building land is not built, simply in that settlement, on that cadastrian particle, that person can't legally get enlargement. I have examples of this in my village that huge hectares have been seduced long ago into building land and that a person does not plan at all to build there, nor park or build or simply stop the development of the village. So building land could be debated and specifically spoken for even years to make this building land more expensive than it was built. Because it prevents development means certain settlements because it cannot get one who is much more needed for the house, I don't know, for building land, because unfortunately many people who can't turn their land into building land in certain settlements are literally forced to buy from other people in other places, in other settlements building land, because it's simply the building land that has been standing there for decades. That's the first one. And as for the farm, as for some of the objects that have caused damage, and we know how they have been harmed and for which, not by their guilt but by the guilt of Croatian politics, we really need to think that these objects are simply avoided taxing because they are not guilty because of the status of the Croatian peasant or farmer. Thank you very much. Because it's time to punish those who robbed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21246	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Bull for his replica. The reply to the replica is the esteemed colleague of Ana-Marie Petin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21247	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mr. Bull. Well, of course we don't want to stop the development of municipalities in HSS. So you know that both the most successful municipalities and cities are headed by the mayors, the mayors of the Croatian Peasant Party, most of them, yes. We do not, of course, want to stop the development of municipalities but simply want to find a compromise that this burden does not go on the back of citizens but you come from another region, in Slavonia is a completely different story. In Slavonia you have villages, places of waste, there you can buy the entire household, the entire estate for 30 thousand euros, and this low price now here is a colleague who says for 10,000 euros and this small price has no buyer, in Slavonia you do not want people to come and live, agriculture is destroyed and Slavonia is destroyed if we have a future and there is no persperceptive.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21248	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Ana-Maria Petin, for her reply to the replica. This is what we used up the replicas after this debate. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, HSU's esteemed colleague, Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21249	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In this last set, the laws that were already in the first reading were of considerable interest. This is not strange, namely, traditional Croatians didn't save in shares, they didn't save in gold and diamonds, they were saving in real estate. I can truly say with respect that a set of 15 laws that go through two readings came from the Ministry of Finance, which is indeed commendable. However, it is often quality and quantity, not exactly in proportion. So I can compare this to one fact, where when I was 15 years old then I thought I was the smartest person to have nothing to learn in my life and everything my mom told me I thought she was saying wrong. And as I was going with age, then I realized that everything she was saying was saying right and I know just as well today how much I don't know yet. All the things I thought I knew when I was 15, today I know I don't know. So I wish from that discussion that was in the first reading of the law it really was, that they'd worked a little harder and listened to what we discussed because they discussed people who knew a lot about it. The mayors discussed it, discussed the mayors from the assembly council. I don't think about it, I know a lot, but I was doing a proposal for a law on the municipal economy, I was dealing with it, I watched as from the Law on the municipal economy, the communal compensation turned into something called the Real estate law for the simple reason that throughout the European semesters, our colleagues from the EU are always saying what is potential in Croatia is potential in real estate. You can also secure certain incomes and do something about it. When I spoke on behalf of the club in my first reading, I mentioned in 2003 and the projects I had since 2003. And now let me look at the Real Estate Tax Act in just two sentences. So on our tables, there have been four amendments so far, and all four amendments say the same thing. They're saying we need to return the first real estate release. I was recently even on a show where young people on the road were interviewed, so it was a good measure, it was a demographic measure, it was a very useful measure. If it's already wanted from that measure to someone else, then it's supposed to be a package that comes together and not that we have this now and then we have faith believe me it's going to be something. That's a long time ago. Therefore, once again, please pay attention, a good measure was, therefore, the exemption from the first real estate tax. And now I'd like to concentrate a little more on this local tax bill. I went to read it in detail last night and I thought, "Let's go try to change that thing, but the thing is, it's in the approach at all." You often do some kind of law that you're aware of that there may be some kind of little flaw or something, but something that you certainly know will give you a message. The message I'm reading from this bill is next. The message is towards the EU, Croatia is working hard and will introduce a real estate tax. However, that too is said as a simple tax. The UN-Habitat has been doing an analysis of 42 countries in Europe and is linked to real estate tax and only 3 countries have a surface area as a basis, that is, Ukraine, Poland and the Czech Republic. Others have a value tax. For example, Austria introduced real estate tax for 55 years, Germany introduced in '65. years according to certain criteria, in certain ways as a value tax. The minister is in the opening letter, and when he was at first reading the law and now he said we're introducing a simple tax, we're turning communal tax into real estate tax. And that's the simplest possible methodology and way. We need to know the following and be aware of the following, which is, of the 556 units of local self-government, there are 20 of them, and I'm not going to say the exact number now so that I don't make mistakes that don't charge any communal compensation at all. These others charge by a different percentage, the share of municipal fees in the incomes of the local self-government unit. In doing so, we need to know what a communal fee is. The communal fee has been introduced and is being introduced where you pay your units of local self-government for having made the road, what you have built infrastructure, what you have public space and public content, public, some public spaces, and you pay the communal compensation from which it is maintained, and then because they had a huge disproportionateity related to the municipal compensation we have made one amendment to the Law on the municipal economy where from the communal fee other than maintenance could be invested in something other than wages. Of course, I find the city of Zagreb interesting. The town of Zagreb has 384 thousand 333 apartments. The success in the payment of the municipal fee is 70%. In the revenues of the city of Zagreb in the 7 billionth city of Zagreb has a municipal fee of 10%. For example, the City of Rijeka is at 15%, Osijek is at 12% and Split is at 14%. The difference between this 10 and this 15% of what the City of Rijeka has is liberation. So these are the releases of municipal compensation and there will certainly be a big problem. I am absolutely and always advocated that the law, and I have advocated that there was a time it might have been done, that the law defines exactly what and under what conditions it can be a release because the release is always used for either pre-election purposes or used for certain groups. So that release is always a problem. However, you must also know that introducing this part of real estate tax will certainly be a problem. The problem will be for several reasons. The first thing is a record to be able to introduce a property tax you must have recorded. We must say loud and clear, I see who was there from the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction which we had today where we found that this is not the case in Croatia. All of you who are mayors or mayors know very well that you have not recorded all the properties, but there is no end to the story. Let's move on, in order to be able to charge real estate tax you have to have a certain age of real estate, and you have to have a fixed state of property. Now, around the age, there will be a safe debate because according to these criteria it may happen that the apartment near this assembly will pay less real estate tax than an apartment that was built from the POS system in St. Clara or in Zagreb. Prezrje was 1034 euros per square. So, on the element of getting an apartment of the same area that street further this one will pay more taxes than the tax street away from this assembly. There is no end, there is no end, there is a state of who will determine what is the situation, how will be established and believed, or not all of you who are mayors and mayors who of course know very well what I'm talking about and you know that May 21st is that local elections in Croatia, if they are relatively, we know when it is 3 weeks in May I'm afraid that by local elections none of the mayors will go with it because they will somehow give their fellow citizens something new and after the local elections if they are the same then they will be in big problems and some new ones in even bigger problems. Because in order for a property tax to be introduced, basic conditions must be met to have them recorded, to have them recorded in the area where, if you have registered owners, to have them, to have, to know what the condition is and to know what age is. And I am very curious about how 384 333 apartments will be established in the City of Zagreb. There's no business space, there's not these other things. What does that mean? I have to admit here as someone who has certain, not certain but real options of the civic centre, liberal, entrepreneurial and everything else sees a great opportunity for young people, for young entrepreneurs to fine start firms and to offer their services to municipalities and cities, excellent computer processing, we have in real time to get through various maps can get a situation that is. A lot of things on the portals are safe and absolutely in this sense we are opening a new activity, which I thank the minister for because it is an excellent new activity that will take some time and really be of some use. I really think you should have registered properties and I don't have any problem with that. As a result, even in my first reading, and now I am much more committed, and I would argue that certain elements and provisions have been defined through the Law on the Communist Economy over the past year. Equally by making the maximum effort for a portal called e. real estate. That this portal be with all its elements on which it should be and that when a property tax is introduced, what is a value tax is introduced. So countries are struggling with real estate taxes in different ways from American countries to Europe. And then it's a value tax, but when it's a value tax, then it's there and there's no tax to be paid up to a certain value, and that's how they have countries defined it. In this way we will come into real danger that we will introduce real estate tax, there will be solutions, I will appeal first to my solution because I will argue that my condition has not been well established because I will determine that, let's say from the neighbors, she leaked the bathroom into my kitchen which is a fact. So I'm curious about what my condition is right now, because I was better off than before I leaked it all together. So there's also this story of mass estimates, so there's a series of stories. So when we go with such a newspaper, when we go with such a story, we must prepare well. In this way we satisfied the form but did not satisfy the essence. We will when we show our EU reforms where the property tax is, we will put a clutch on us and they will evaluate us here Croatia has shown efforts, introduced taxes and everything else. But let's see what we really have on the ground, we really have on the ground examples of doing a common information system of catastra and grantonics excellent program, a super program for what's well recorded. When you're well recorded in the catastro and you're well recorded in the garter you get information like this, the perfect state and that's about 5 to 6% of all in Croatia. When there is a single surface in the catastro, in the garland, a dear surface, in the catastro real owner, in the garter the owner who is a grandfather who no longer has a ZIS tells you a mistake because he has two different data and can't give you the exact information. So it really took effort, energy, and effort to do that when we were doing it and when we were going to get a clutch there to make it right. And I'd still be here for the end of how much I refer to Article 29. A law where it says public surface. I am also in the debate and otherwise I told people to hear from the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, define it in the same way. Which is a public area compared to this tax I don't know, because I'm going to let myself read what it says in the Law on Spatial Planning. It says the area of public purpose is any area whose use is intended for all and on equal terms. Public roads, unclassified roads, streets, cycling trails, hiking trails and passageways, squares, markets, playgrounds, parking lots, cemetery, parks and green areas in the village, recreational areas. Because that provision is tax and for use there it writes public surfaces. These are areas of public purpose. As such, they are defined in the Law on Spatial Planning, as such are in spatial plans and now I do not know on which public areas tax will be paid or these are these areas. So, you just had to sit down a little bit and see what it was about because I don't know if this tax means both grave tax and tax when it's in the kiosk park, which will mean the provision of your Article 29 in relation to the Law on Spatial Planning. We have, therefore, different legislation that we can have are the experiences of both Europe and Croatia. You can also have a sectoral approach and you can have an integrated approach. I've always advocated an integrated approach. What does that mean? For the same concept, that the same term should be for the same terms in each law. So if it is in the Law of Spatial Planning which is the roof law of the surface of public purpose, then it should be in this law and in all other laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21250	I thank my esteemed colleague, Anki Dark Taritash, for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a respected counterpart, Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21251	Dear Mrs. Dark Taritash, what you said was that the problem with real estate records and the fact is that maybe some cities and municipalities don't have that. That's not what I'm afraid of. We have literally photographed every house, and even a garden house in our city and exactly its dimensions, and we know all the data. However, I see that another problem. You remember the law that entered into force in 2015, and the amendment of the VAT Act, so that's where I see a reduction in income for local self-government units. Because for all land for which an executive act on the construction of a location, building permit or confirmation of a major project has been issued, so under VAT, the state's income is not a 25 percent tax on real estate. Also, this reduction from 5 to 4 by one percentage point is 20% less income from local self-government units. We can talk about this as far as local self-government is concerned. From all that you've been saying, what we're saying as the leaders of the local self-government unit is the greatest burden and at this point, like all previous governments, seems to be falling on local self-government units, and we're talking about economic progress. I sincerely hope so, and the minister has promised that the Law on the financing of units of local self-government, which should bring up to 6 months next year, will nivelle things in that section. Because the fact is that the greatest burden will have to bear as always since '94. Since the formation of units of local self-government, cities and municipalities, and I think we're all aware of that. But if we want to go into some kind of complete reform somewhere we have to start.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21252	I thank my esteemed colleague, Klaric, for the replica. The reply to the replica is an esteemed colleague of Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21253	Thank you very much. Comrade Klaric, we've known each other for many years and beyond this assembly. We'll probably meet in the future, so I want you and I want you to continue to be mayor I just had to be a city or a municipality. So I'm going to ask you in a year or two and remind you of this discussion. As you can see, I have five different fingers on my hand, so each of us, so 556 different municipalities and cities each with their own problems. And the problems you have. I'm really and happy that you're registered because it's so much easier to control the space. I'm sure other problems and other ways have colleagues and colleagues, and believe me, Slavonia has something. How they're gonna get out of it, I don't dare think so. When it comes to Slavonian municipalities and cities, and when it comes to Nuštr, which the minister is very fond of mentioning, Nuštar has two percent of their incomes. I went to take a look at it because I have revenues from all 556 municipalities and cities what the income of the municipal fee in their budget is 2% in the Nuštra budget is from the municipal fee. And they freed them from the communal compensation of all the locations, that is, all the houses where people don't live. Now there's no possibility of acquittal, they have to cut the tax, they have to deliver a solution where no one lives. That solution will wander there, so someone will complain in one day. I keep telling him, you know one man knows little, but all people know everything. Slovenia has introduced taxes for 10 years. After ten years when she introduced her, she had two million complaints. After that, the Constitutional Court annulled the Real Estate Act. I have to admit, I haven't followed what's been going on in the last six months or years. This is one product that was made in a simpler way. Something that was an apple we turned into a pear, and believe me, we're going to get a pig's half in the field really when I get a chance to make a joke like that, it's already late and we're all tired of it. What I've been up to, and all the time I'm saying, build a base, do everything, take advantage of 2017, and maybe it's easier to do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21254	I thank my esteemed colleague, Anki Mrak-Taritash, for your reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Ana-Marie Petin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21255	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, here's an esteemed colleague, you mentioned that these properties will have to be recorded, estimated or determined by age, determined by the state, so who will do it and whose cost it will be. Whether it will go over the back of citizens again or the cost will be borne by state or local self-government or county, so nothing is defined by law. As for this proposal of yours, I have great friends who have finished building schools, unfortunately they don't work anywhere, so here I will advise them to start opening their own companies and since they will soon have a secure job here in Croatia and it seems a very good profit. And another question that isn't said, and what if that real estate tax isn't paid? What if our senior pensioners have nothing to pay that tax from, what happens then? Will the state execute them, depose them, move them out of their homes, what will happen then? And I'm also asking you, are you in order for these cattle farms that are made out of the Operational Programme where people are in trouble to go with the proposal here we can go to the amendment yet, that they get rid of definitely paying that tax on real estate because I think we are aiming at helping all of our citizens especially those who are in trouble, especially farmers who are not as they have been said for themselves in these problems, but because of other things and situations that are credit-loaded to them in this way if we already couldn't directly through tax reform that we vote on tomorrow, at least in this way to help them a little bit in agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21256	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Ani-Marie Petin, for the replica. The reply to the replica is an esteemed colleague of Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21257	Thank you very much. Comrade Petin, you've asked a few questions here so I might start from the last. I'm an absolute person who advocates that everything that needs to be defined be as defined as possible. You can't just do everything by law regulations and give as little space as possible to free grades. You know, free reviews like in skating and then judges varying grades, so if the subject of liberation is that the subject of liberation is who and under what conditions can be exempt from real estate taxes, surely it must be in law and should not be given the possibility to do so by the unit of local self-government for the simple reason that this leads to disorder and leads to disorder and also does not have any effect. So either way, the amendment. I must say that our club of representatives of the HNS-HSU we will give an amendment that we propose that the whole chapter relating to real estate tax be deleted this moment, and that this is defined through the Law on the Communist Economy, and when conditions are obtained in half a year or nine months before this respected House again, and then we can discuss it under the conditions under which we should be. I also have to admit that I'm happy when new jobs are opened, and I'm just as happy when new jobs are opened for young people because for this job you need to have the will, you need to have a computer, you need to have certain computer skills, and you need to have good shoes or boots and a raincoat depending on the time it works, computerly do everything, go out on the field, record, take out the data you have. I often set an example, an example of what I'm talking about. My parents built a house in '67. For that holiday home, we have both a building permit and a useful permit. And me when I go to the catastra is still one big particle with one hundred cottages, and a cottage made by the basis of a permit according to the PUP pitching that by the book all together, and in the catastra there is still one large particle and I can't get into the garnery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21258	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mr. Tarritash, for your reply. The next one came from a respected counterpart Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21259	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Anka Dark Taritash. In your discussion you mentioned exactly the need to fix the state of the grantovnica, the catastra as a prerequisite that the property could be located, determine the square, the state, the owner, etc. And one part of the property is owned by the state, you haven't mentioned it yet because the state and the minister of the new ministry themselves said that he still doesn't know how much property there is on the ground and how we'll expect the new ministry, the new minister, in a year's time to resolve the state of state property, to settle it in the cataster and garners, and to agree with the mayors and mayors, especially in the context of the upcoming local elections. Because right now it's just a lot of pressure on the captains to take over Croatian Waters' affairs in the collection of sewage along with a communal fee to issue those solutions through one solution. I know that it is inconclusive for most of the commissioners because the conditions and squares between municipalities, cities and Croatian waters are inconsistencies because they are simply afraid before the elections to issue new solutions with a larger square, with a higher cost for our citizens. I'm afraid that it will happen similarly with this real estate tax and I think it's better to prepare it at this point, to be better prepared and to leave those properties that are not of interest to the Ministry of Defence and to other state bodies to manage local self-government units and I believe that so far they would have been put into office and there would certainly be some economic activity and thus allow units of local self-government to make extra income, not that they are constantly just getting their incomes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21260	I thank my esteemed colleague Davor Vlaovic for his replica. The reply to the replica is an esteemed colleague of Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21261	Thank you very much. I'm taking the opportunity to maybe answer a part of the question to my colleague Petin, which is who's gonna pay for it. Well, they'll pay all those whose budget goes to tax. So it's clear that it's a local tax to go into the budget of local self-government units, that they have to solve it all and therefore there's no dilemma. Whoever has the strength of some municipalities, the cities, enough fellow citizens here sitting next to me is the mayor of the Queen, she has three people, so maybe these people will be able to do something, she has excellent records. I don't know how he's got a colleague who's mayor of Bakra might have good records too, so he'll be able to handle it, but there's got to be those who won't be able to do it. But then he sees miracles. Those who can solve this are those whose municipalities and cities are in the top group of five groups, and those who haven't solved it and who don't collect communal compensation and who have problems are in the worst groups, groups one, two, so three of the worst groups. It just means how much more weight it's going to be. But it has to be done. I have advocated and talked a lot about making real estate records through a program called Real Estate Program, which will be funded from the state level, a program that will be funded by the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning and Finance as a joint programme, that it will be the basis of everything else, that it will be based on everything else because when you have a well-recorded, good program, then it is a game that you want and how you want it to be. But when you don't have any real estate registered, then I'm sure as much as there's no record of and the surface is wrong, believe me, there'll be so many complaints. I hope it's a teamed up competent body to solve complaints. When all the complaints concerning real estate begin, believe me, there is another thing; you must complain immediately; if you do not complain, then you will not go away, the time has passed. Thus, there must have been time over the year, which is coming to us, everything is well recorded and ready for 1.1.2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21262	I thank my esteemed colleague, Anki Mrak-Taritash, for your reply. The next call came from prominent counterpart Nada Turina-Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21263	Thank you. My colleague Taritash, I must point out, we also discussed several years ago within our government the introduction of real estate tax on a very similar model that is now proposed. The Croatian People's Party was against the taba not because we are against it, but because we have warned that we are not ready to introduce real estate tax. And the situation in these three years between this previous proposal and this present proposal has actually not changed significantly. What certain units of local self-government have records prepared in a way that, with a certain adjustment, of course, at extra costs might be able to do, let's say, one 50, 60 percent of the correct solutions that will go out. I'm convinced there'll be at least 30, 40 percent of them coming back to us for a variety of reasons. Among other things, and for this reason where you will need to make an assessment of the state of the property which will certainly be a complaint. Because it's not defined how we're going to evaluate the state of the property. Not to mention that tomorrow someone will say, or the day after tomorrow, make a new facade, increase the value of their real estate, which means that we will have to change that same solution in the next period. We have a huge job ahead of us. The self-government in which I am headed has invested nearly a million kunas in the past 5.6 years in these records, and these records are still not good enough, so that now, without any problems in the next year, we can issue the solutions foreseen by this law. I absolutely say it responsibly. And when we do it based on this law, we'll only have a problem, extra costs because we're not prepared for it. That's what we pointed to and then. Now as HNS, we're pointing right now. Let's do a job as God commands, and then we introduce real estate taxes, or we advocate property taxes.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21264	I thank my esteemed colleague, Nadia Turini-Djuric, on the replica. The reply to the replica is an esteemed colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21265	Thank you very much, colleague Turina-Djuric. Everything you've said is like that. Indeed, when we were in the government and then tried to resolute Minister Linic in a similar way, a very, very similar way of introducing a real estate tax, we were against it. We were just talking about the property tax, we were talking about what, which means. At that time, we repeated some similar words as this time. I have to admit, Minister Linic hasn't spoken to me in three months. He turned his head or he was mad at me because I was saying what I'm saying right now. I'm talking about why I've really been planning my whole life. I know a lot about the cataster, I know a lot about the garter, I know a lot about the state of the field, and I know a lot about how real estate is evaluated, which means real estate, which means real estate business. And that's when I said it like I said it this time, and I'm going to do it over and over again. It can be introduced if you have good records, if you have a good record. And there will really be municipalities and cities where that won't be a problem. I in the debate, when the first reading was debated, deliberately did not say which municipality it was. The Veer Community. He's got a great record of real estate. Why? Because there were a lot of illegals. These lawless ones wouldn't pay. They had a young, ambitious chief who paid for a company that recorded it all on the way. He's got an exact recorded real estate. There when someone completes two squares, he adds two squares to the communal fee, and he won't have any problems. People will get better there. They're paying taxes on vacations now and paying communal fees. After 1.1.2018 there will be only one thing, there will be real estate taxes, there will be no utility fees and taxes on vacations. So there's going to be something less than it is. So people will pay something less than they pay now. So, appeal, I repeat, there's still time. This next year from the state level to make a program, record everything, and then really introduce a property tax as a value. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21266	I thank my esteemed colleague, Anki Mrak-Taritash, for your reply. This is what we used up all the lines after the debate. Next, an important colleague, Davor Milicevic, applied for the debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21267	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected ministers with associates. In front of us now are in the discussion of three laws of the so-called so-called law. tax reform packages. Proposal for a Law on Real estate tax, Proposal for a Law on Local Taxes, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of units of local, regional and regional self-government. The first of this group of laws is the proposal of the Real Estate Tax Act which has a small number of amendments, i.e. in most parts, is the same as it was in the first reading or second reading. In a legal one technical sense, the draft law is well regulated and no additional intervention is required. What is new in relation to the second reading, however, is the fact that liberation is recognised now and for life partners, which is partly accepted in a way that the same for all tax procedures prescribed by the General Tax Law is no longer necessary for the adoption of specific tax rules. Furthermore, the second amendment in the draft law concerns Article 25, which is supplemented by paragraph 2, which stipulates that solutions are not made if a taxpayer is exempt from tax based on a specific regulation. We fully support and welcome this proposal to amend the law in the HDZ Club because we believe that this is exactly the way that should be followed, or in practice, by the declared principles of unnecessary administration. The proposed legal provision saves time and money, and particularly relieves the work of civil servants who waste unnecessary time on account of any legal norms instead of using it to do their job. Furthermore, it is also important to note that the Legislative Committee notes: For the sake of legal certainty it is not allowed to amend or abolish certain provisions of the other law, but it is necessary to adopt amendments and possibly supplement that other law. This is precisely because we have witnessed before that it was often not so, and often laws are passed the opposite way described above, fall in the Constitutional Court, are certainly not good practice and such practices should be avoided in the future as it is in this proposal and done. Second draft law on local taxes. In the second reading, there are certain differences as a result of respecting the position set out during the first reading of the bill. And in order to improve the provisions and the final bill. What I would like to point out in particular is the accepted comment of the Committee on Local, Regional and Regional Self-Government, a pool of discussions on the reform of the tax system in which it is proposed to exempt the payment of real estate taxes from those shareholders who have so far been exempt from paying public compensation for a certain period. The introduction of such a provision into the text of the law in my opinion, and as one of the leaders who comes from local self-government, enables the further development of units of local and regional self-government because it is thus possible that projects of general interest or of particular interest for local and regional self-government for which there is insufficient resources in the budget of units in local and regional self-government, which relate to investment in municipal infrastructure, are financed by the money of economic operators. And in return, while the investment project is going on, that certain motivation and satisfaction through the release from paying real estate taxes. Such a legal possibility also allows for future funding of projects relevant to units of local and regional self-government through the investments of economic operators. As I have already stated in the debate on the Law on Real estate tax and in this case, the legislator has accepted the statement by the Legislator that legal certainty does not allow one legislative amendment or the abolition of certain provisions of the second law, which should become a good practice of this House. Finally, the third law in this package of laws of comprehensive tax reform refers to the proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government. The adoption of this law by emergency procedure is necessary for reasons of legal certainty, i.e. preventing legal uncertainty by overlapping this law with the Real Estate Tax Act and the Law on Local Taxes already in the second reading. This law introduces one newspaper in Croatian legislation and clearly sets out provisions on the financing of units of local and regional self-government from provisions on local taxes. The proposal for a new law excludes legal texts that have been implemented on new laws, and above all the Law on Real estate tax and the Law on Local Taxes. What is to praise is precisely the fact that this legislative proposal relieves the economy in some ways, some will say symbolically, but for beginning a good step in the right direction because a full tax on a company or name is thrown out. The HDZ will support this law anyway. I would take this opportunity to thank the minister and all his associates who have worked very studioly on tax reform, because this is the only way for Croatia to get better. We who come from Slavonia know how difficult it is for us. In addition to the solutions offered, we do not see better solutions and therefore we will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21268	I thank my esteemed colleague Milicevic for this debate. We have one replica, dear colleague of Nada Turina-Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21269	Well, I just wanted to ask my colleague what happened back three years ago. In fact, I just said it means a very similar proposal that did not come into the parliamentary procedure because we did not agree within the coalition to do so or to withdraw it. Because it was two, three years ago, there was a lot of talk about him whether he needed it or not. At that time, you HDZ colleagues also publicly pleaded against the introduction of real estate taxes. And there was a similar argument about how this one today on this side of the opposition, that we are simply not prepared for such a thing, that there are too many unknowns, and that unfortunately from such a hasty solution and the implementation of such a solution, there will be quite a chaos in terms of complaints about the issued tax solutions. Because, let's say, one example is that, real estate tax will be paid on those properties that are currently not used, on which there are more owners, so let's say, you have a whole series of people who live in, say, Rijeka, that are from like, so you have some real estate, some old house in Lika whose value is no useful value, is nothing, but you're going to have to pay taxes on it. So, it's all something that opens up a lot of dilemmas and questions, so since you've always been very committed to the fact that there's no such law in the process and we're not ready for it, I don't know what happened in the meantime except for the new minister or the new government. Uh, if you were so much at stake right now, we'd be introducing that tax urgently.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21270	I thank my esteemed colleague, Nadia Turini-Djuric, on the replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Davor Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21271	I, above all, thank you for the replica. First of all, he said one phrase. It's an economic category. At the time, an economist attended a meeting and agreed on a story and adopted a certain conclusion, because when he came out, when he returned, he was no longer for the story. So they say why? Because he's got new information. In the meantime, a lot happened. I'm sure the men at the head of the minister did a good job. I don't think there's been a minister like this for a long time who's been taking detailed blows from all of us for the past two, three months, and I'm sure this is the last attempt to change something in Croatia. There are parts in Croatia that live well. I come from a place where it's very hard to live and today we talk a lot about real estate tax, whether it's 5 or 4 percent. If I tell you that a house in County is worth 10,000 euros, will someone pay 500 euros or a tax of 400 euros. That's less important. I think that we should think about finding our citizens an opportunity to get a job, and these tax reforms are about opening up the possibility of investing in Croatia to get a better life. Because I'm sorry that I'm also an agent, so when I listen to all of us here, it seems to me that the more we take care of our citizens, the harder it gets to everyone. That's what I'd end up with.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21272	I thank my esteemed colleague Davor Milicevic for his reply. This is what we've exhausted all the replicas in this debate. We're moving on to the next, individual, come from a distinguished colleague, Gordan Maras. He's gone. Thank you. The following has appeared for an individual debate, a distinguished colleague, Rezimir Varda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21273	I won't be long and don't repeat that part of the debate I had when I first read it. I'm only going to refer to the amendments I've submitted regarding the replacement of real estate. In fact, I read both of the other reasons for the bill and the final proposal for the law. You know, it doesn't hold water, but it's two different legal jobs. One legal job is to buy, and another legal job is to replace it. No matter what. You, in one explanation and another, put it all under the same hat. Well, good. I was actually going into my own debate and in the first reading, and about the amendment explanation that we have a real estate replacement not only of the apartments, so not only of the building but also of the land exchange. You know that in the land, if there is no commission to be carried out for which the Assembly programme should also provide funds, etc., etc., that our parcels are divided, small. If we want to develop our agriculture, I think we should allow our landowners with these small plots to change and round their land without real estate tax. At the apartments, I went from really being taught the situation in the City of Zagreb, and I also argue in larger cities. You have old families, singles, users of family pensions that have a big square because the kids are gone, they've created their own family nests. And you have young people who, according to your proposal or on the proposal of the Minister, have subsidies for the first real estate, and I would no longer talk about it, need a bigger apartment. They can buy 60 squares in the City of Zagreb if they buy an apartment for 100,000 euros to get a subsidy. The 60 squares are one bedroom, living room, kitchen, sanitary room. The rest are hallways. Do we want to implement the most important policy? Because they need a bigger apartment today or tomorrow. Which is why I don't allow these elderly people to get to a smaller apartment without tax and to get them to a bigger apartment and only pay for the difference in the market value of the apartment. And that's all. That's the situation we had until 1997. That's the situation she's been working on. I've been trying to get information on how much tax was charged on the real estate swap. That's not the kind of information I could get, that's not the kind of analyst you're running. Because it's all real estate tax. If you'd written in your explanation at the final text that we'd be tracking that tax for a year, believe me, I would have raised both my hands for this law. So I'd wait a year for the result to see that it won't lead to this situation that I'm up for. It won't lead to a rounding of land without a commission. We have no money for this, and it will not lead to the replacement of apartments in which young families would be provided with a larger living space and thus the possibility of having more children. That's what I'm done with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21274	I thank my esteemed colleague, Rechimir Varda, for this debate. The following came to an individual, distinguished colleague, Ivan Klarin, for discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21275	Here, I'd like to thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with associates, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I know it doesn't make much sense since it's too late. I thought this debate would be tomorrow morning, but it doesn't diminish the importance of saying what hurts the most in this tax reform, called the so-called tax reform, which consists of 15, 16 laws. This is the final proposal of the Real Estate Tax Act. I would dare say, and I will be rude to say that I find articles 12 and 13 embarrassing because, Mr. Minister, you have abolished tax exemption for all those who buy real estate for the first time, for all those young families, and later you have tried to cover it for us and the public with a cloth of some compensatory measures. It is quite popular for you, Minister Kuštević said, that he will lend all those young families that see wonders have nothing to spare. So, which you are literally forcing to become financial slaves of foreign-owned Croatian banks, who will be in debt to be able to exercise their right to do so. I don't know what led you to such a measure that those What? [[Intruder:...do not listen.]] Don't let him listen. It doesn't matter to me. I don't know what led you, Mr. Minister, and the entire government on these young families who don't have real estate, introduce a tax rate of as much as 4 percent, and all those who have 2, 3, 5, 10, 15 real estates bring that rate down from 5 to 4 percent. You're in the opening statement, I didn't want to rephrase not to make it look like I had something personal against you, so for every debate you've had, I'd like to raise a line for you. But it's just amazing to me that you're justifying some kind of measure that will stabilize the budgets of the local self-government units. We in this tax package have actually seen everything that units of local self-government lose by this tax reform and I think that today through replicas I have repeatedly and on many occasions said that. I'm saying, as a young man, a young parent hurts me because I think there were a lot of other and more concrete measures that you could have taken in this tax reform, not to be touched in the first real estate, that is, not to be touched into all those young families that acquire their first real estate to solve their own housing issue. I don't know what the next step in this general release is, are those citizens who buy their residential property that they acquired on the basis of housing rights, whether it's family mates and descendants who acquire property on the basis of a life support contract, I don't know what's next, but I'm saying I don't like this at all, and I'm saying, even though it's too late to repeat that I deeply disagree with this reform, and especially with this law that I have now in my hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21276	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ivan Klarin, for this debate. The following came up for discussion by distinguished counterpart Željko Lackovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21277	I thank the esteemed Vice President, gentlemen of the Ministry. So, I'll be brief at the end of this debate. So all taxes that this House will vote will have to be applied. So people will have to pay taxes and taxes must be paid whether they are fair or not. But the key goal is how the funds collected by tax will be spent. There is the biggest problem and for no reason exactly the municipal compensation had its primary intention, purpose or purpose to finance the maintenance of municipal infrastructure. It was also possible to build municipal infrastructure later. Now this obligation no longer exists for local self-government units, and you can have a situation where you will now charge no more utility fees than real estate taxes, that it will be original income and that you can spend without a problem on wages and who knows what other investments and that your communal infrastructure is failing. Why do I want to point this out? Because it has already happened on several occasions and I will set a concrete example in practice. For example, the Water Economy Financing Act is now open to us, which we had previously had the opportunity to discuss, in order to finance the construction of urban coastal drain and accumulation buildings from the financing of municipal compensation. This revenue for Croatia leads to the collection of units of local self-government and when we introduced in our city of payment, along with a municipal fee and compensation for water management, we raised an annual amount of 400,000 kuna to a million and 200 thousand kuna, but we have absolutely no benefit from such a better collection of this income since this income is used according to the principle of solidarity and championship according to the needs of the state. So we made three times the income for Croatian waters, and they did not honour a stream that we have in the city to cut down as it should. So that's an example from practice. And the example that we had the opportunity to see when we didn't regulate exactly what the particular income we collect from the citizens will benefit you is just an example of the legalization of illegally built objects. So, it was one hack, one can freely say robbery of all those who voluntarily entered the legalisation process, they had to pay for a variety of graphic architectural solutions that students and trainees would do. That's what greasy architects would charge for. The cities and municipalities as far as they could get rid of the communal contribution, but then we had one fee called a fee to keep the illegally built buildings in place. She's 20% I've eaten the legal process. 30 per cent went to local self-government units where these facilities were located, and 50 per cent was the income of a state budget, which according to purpose only the Ministry of Construction, was to be used to remove illegal buildings and the like. So I'm now asking the question where are these huge co-financing funds, fees for keeping illegally built buildings or buildings in space if it was to be and serve to settle therefore a municipal standard in areas where that fee was paid, and it never came back. So you can have the same example, and now I've heard former Minister Mrak-Taritash is already calling for certain students who are going to evaluate and state the quality of apartments and units in cities, so I guess it's going to go back to the burden of units of local self-government. And it is clear that the quality introduction of real estate tax without fixed grants and cadastres will not be, and you will pay VAT on different services when you go towards grantovnica or want to enter something. You'll pay for the court's release, and I think it should be in the interest of the primary setting up of the ZIS or the state of the records in the garter and the catastro so that they can bring in such taxes. Therefore, the tax will be introduced, but the control mechanism as to how these funds will be spent we do not have and where irresponsible leaders are, where irresponsible people in local self-government can have significant abuses because this is one fee that should be equivalent to what is received on behalf of the property. So, you're going to pay taxes, and no one's going to edit your tracks or this little communal infrastructure. That way the value of the facility falls, it's falling, and you're paying taxes neatly. Therefore, there should be significant consideration and introduction of some control mechanisms to protect investment in municipal infrastructure, as now the poor financial situation of local self-government units will just resuscitate by running into this income that will collect from real estate taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21278	I thank my esteemed colleague, Zeljko Lackovic, for this debate. We have one replica. Dear colleague Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21279	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Lacković, you referred to the legalisation process and I would only refer to it in a way that, despite all the costs and costs of legalization, every owner, the cost of the architect or the builder, the cost of the communal contribution, the cost of the water contribution, the cost of the fee to keep the building in place, was ten times less than that of him building the house legally even this procedure of entering the building permit. So I wouldn't agree with you if it were, that these people were killed because it's maximum individual, and you're mayor, and I'm sure you've reduced their municipal contribution to those who go into legalization and that there and your unit of local self-government was damaged compared to that same owner having a building permit like all those who were normal builders. As far as these other remarks of yours are concerned, I don't think the owner of the building could be costing an estimate of his building. It is the obligation of a unit of local self-government to determine in accordance with the law the age of the building, location, quality, etc., etc. So I wouldn't expect it to be the owner's expense, but it's going to have to be the local self-government unit. How and how it will engage in the identification of the data needed for the sales of real estate tax, it depends on it. And I agree with you that, given the fact that a new tax is being introduced, there is no chief and chief who will be able to tear off the names of new increased revenues and that through real estate tax, it will increase the amount that has the basis of the municipal fee. Here I think the ministry must react in order not to significantly increase the income of the local self-government unit based on this new tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21280	I thank my esteemed colleague, Branko Bačić, for the replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Lackovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21281	Dear colleague Bacic, I just wanted to warn you that this would not be business for business. So you have to pay for the service of architects, but what was done in legalization, that wasn't equivalent value. So this was done to you by students in various computer projects and charged as real architectural projects. So, the resulting footage was charged I don't know how much, people were paying 500 kuna for a single plane shot to prove that their building was built before 1968. There is also no one else but the citizens themselves will fall to this very cost, if not directly then indirectly because they are the ones who fill their taxes with a local budget. And what I wanted to say and what bothered me is that this architectural profession sees business again and sees more of the business ministers. They would make certain students who would then walk around Zagreb and list buildings and charge for it. I believe that we should trust both entrepreneurs and citizens and that each of us can deliver to its own unit local self-government information about age, about the state. Fill in one simple questionnaire which will be the basis for determining the obligation, and if suspected and verified it is different, then charge it to such an individual full value and the cost of such an assessment. So, I wouldn't want these two new elements that we're introducing: age and state of property, to be a new opportunity for jobs that are not necessarily necessary and that will burden the owner again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21282	I thank my esteemed colleague Lackovic for his reply to the replica. On behalf of the promoter, Minister Zdravko Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21283	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, I will really not be longer, but I will exercise my right, and in some ways I feel I have an obligation to thank you all together for your comments and for the debate. I think we entered some of my records at 43 hours of debate when we sum up the first and second readings, and believe me, the debate ruled out a lot more hours that we had in the framework of these expert working groups and my team at the Ministry of Finance to prepare all these major proposals. I'm not gonna say it like it was yesterday, but we remember the 3rd month, we sat in my office and discussed among other things the tax system. Then we said the same thing, let's try to do something we think or what we're going to think is ultimately that it's quality and it's going to help that tax system. We've also called the profession, we've included, of course, all our capacities to not only produce these 15 and now 16 laws, but we've done something that we've defined from the beginning. On the one hand, the tax system simplifies because I think we can agree almost everyone here or I would even say it all, despite maybe thinking in certain details, but really that it takes one quality simplification of the system, make it more efficient in some elements. I'm sure we can't all agree on that together. We consider it more just. Of course we can't always be with all the provisions completely all together sure that we agree, but also make it more stable, make it more consistent, make it more competitive if you want. Because it's one of the important wheels of our overall economy and society, and it certainly needs to be focused on all the efforts that the government is making. In parallel with that, of course, we've been thinking about tax discharge. I will tell you very clearly and responsibly as Minister of Finance, I deeply believe that, I repeat, the key of Croatia's public finances on the bulky side of the budget, the revenue of the foreign budget is the one we should also keep an eye on and focus on, but the revenue side of the budget among other things should be focused on discharging the economy or further reducing the deficit. That's what we went with in 2016. I think the results are quite visible to all of us, and I believe you will recognize that in the draft budget for 2017. We tried to get rid of this possibility already in the first year to try to deploy as far as possible to get as many Croatian citizens as possible. Here is what we heard today in the debate and in the course of this morning's debate we mentioned and compared. Of course, we also aim to make the most Croatian citizens feel these changes, so here are our colleagues who work in the Croatian Parliament. And yesterday, a security guard approached me, and a cashier at the store, etc., and of course we have more or less similar questions to what each one of them means. I repeat again, so income tax is one topic that is actually important, extremely important, but it does not define all of us our salaries rather than how much tax and special cut is tightened. We've heard of, of course, these high wages, net wages that reach 50 grand still. I must say, therefore, that in Croatia all together when you add up we are talking about some 1,039 people who made such income last year. So we won't ignore that category either, but I still think we should look at that broad picture. And what I would say lastly, and we also think that it is extremely important, therefore, tax reform can neither be her intensity to solve all the problems of our economy and be the only wheel of the stopper in not only the economic further recovery but the real creation of a more stable and sustainable economic picture of the Republic of Croatia. But that's step one. Here I am glad that you recognized it too because the government is indeed practically already in its early stages you as the new synergy of the Croatian Parliament indeed clapped with this large number of tax laws, which I am very pleased with. Both clubs and individual debates have shown that the representatives are in place on the subject of the debate and through all these discussions and in the final and comments that you have made, and ultimately the amendments, you have given your opinion. We've been working on the amendments all day compared to yesterday's debate. That's how you can expect tonight, and tomorrow we'll try to show off about them. We have a vote. Some of those amendments have really been taken deep, deep into account. Here's just about the amendment of a colleague of the coat of arms, or a representative of the coat of arms, we've spent a lot of those hours already. In short today, I have just mentioned in a way and how our manifestation will be. Here I sincerely hope that tomorrow we will successfully vote on this whole package of laws, effective from 1.1.2017. And what I think is, for all of us, primarily in the executive government, it is a sure key priority that this must not be stopped or that after tax reform, a whole series of proposals of legal and intrinsic ones, which will mean one structural measure, structural reforms in general, what we all think is necessary for the Croatian economy and society, again, to take one right path, along the path that we all together deserve. And don't be angry, don't mind me, Mr. Vice President, but this time I'll notice that our dear ladies MPs are at the end of the debate today in a slightly larger number than the MPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21284	I would like to thank the representative, Prime Minister Zdravko Marić. We have one replica. Dear colleague Ivan Klarin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21285	I wouldn't have fallen asleep if I hadn't raised this replica. I beg you, I appeal to you, don't forget the units of local self-government. Local self-government units were also damaged in 2010 during the government of Jadranka Kosor and 2015 during the government of Zoran Milanovic. I deliberately told both presidents, i.e. President and Prime Minister. And now during the term of office of Mr. Plenkovic. I know that the mayors of HDZ colleagues, which is because of the party discipline, which is because of the view that you might make up for them through some projects, have not criticised the deficit that will inevitably occur in the budgets of the local self-government units. But both you and them and we must be aware of the fact that neither you nor any of your predecessors are there permanently, you are not there for eternity, and units of local self-government remain, municipalities and cities remain, their financial obligations remain so that I ask that these compensatory measures be genuine and that the units of local self-government are not ultimately the biggest losers of this tax reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21286	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Clarina, for her rep. Replication by Minister Zdravko Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21287	Thank you very much. I think we've already spent a lot of comments and suggestions on that subject. Maybe one thing I haven't said in these past two days, but it really is. So here you have seen also in the guidelines for budgeting for 2017, the state budget deficit of 1.9 is envisaged, but when the results are calculated naturally outside the budget funds and local self-government plans, the general government deficit is 1.6% of the gross domestic product projected for next year. What do I mean by that? So, from a perspective, if you want the Minister of Finance, it would be extremely irresponsible, on the one hand, and on the other hand, don't mind me, maybe a little crazy to ignore the budgets of local self-government. Because they are ultimately an integral part of the overall general government budget. This transfer, this compensation, on the one hand the state budget, the expenditure at the same time and the income of local self-government, is all expensively consolidated and we have a unique result. So I think we should take care of that. You have briefly returned to the past without, of course, the intention of not saying that I am commenting on this past, and again, I think that there have always been a good part of good intentions, but we cannot allow not only from the perspective of the overall results of local self-government, but the fact is that, let's say this year, some of the local communities or local states have actually brought their own budgets that do not have the means to co-finance European projects. I think the same inadmissible and as such unsustainable and certainly yes and in this way we have repeated it several times that we are aware that we are only making a compensatory temporary measure for 2017, and I hope after that we will make one systematic solution. But I think that for the whole topic of decentralisation of units of local and regional self-government, how important this fiscal and financial decentralisation is is so important and functional. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21288	I thank Minister Maric for his reply to the replica. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I thank Minister Maric and his associates Mr Tufekčić and Mr Zrinasic for interpreting these proposals. This is what we end today. The plenary session will continue tomorrow at 9:30 with item 17 of the agenda and I remind you all that at 12 o'clock we will vote on the debate points. I thank you once again for the discussions and the presence and the pleasant rest of the day I wish you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21289	The following law is the final proposal of the Real Estate Tax Act. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by MP Ivan Lovrinović, representatives Saša Djujic, Sabina Glasovac, Peđa Grbin, Nenad Stazić, Marko Vesligaj, Club of Labour and Solidarity Party representatives, Reformist and Independent Representatives, Club of HNS and HSU representatives and also another one of the Clubs of HNS and HSU representatives. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. The first amendment is from representatives of the Labour, Solidarity, Reformist and Independent Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21290	The Government does not accept that amendment. The taxable person is a person who acquires real estate and not a person who insinuates his real estate, so in this case it is not appropriate to make an exception and to consider a taxpayer a person who gives real estate in exchange. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21291	Thank you. I'm asking the honourable MPs to approach the vote. Who is for the first amendment to be included in the final draft law? The vote is over. I find that most of the vote 79 v, 5 abstentions and no votes for that amendment will not be included in the final draft of the law. The next amendment is also from the Labour Party, Solidarity, Reformist and Independent Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21292	The Government does not accept that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21293	I'm asking the honourable MPs to approach the vote. Who is for the second amendment to be included in the final draft law? The vote is over. With 81 votes against, 3 abstentions and no votes for, the above-mentioned amendment will not be included in the final draft law. The next amendment is from HNS and HSU representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21294	The Government does not accept that amendment. As in this and the following two, we have already spoken in the debate, so it is certain by this proposal that by rejecting this amendment we believe that we are protecting the Constitution guaranteed, guaranteed equality of all before the law, because citizens who also buy the first real estate that solve their own housing issue at this time do not have equal tax treatment in the application of real estate tax. This law makes it seem but also what we also mentioned, one small compensatory measure is by reducing the general rate of property tax from 5 to 4 and there will be much greater ones on the trail of the general principles of tax changes that we have proposed, which is that the tax system is as simplified as possible and that, in fact, both social and other effects are regulated directly through the expenditure side of the budget. In this case, we are talking about the measures that the Government will soon propose within the Department of Civil Engineering's section and this concerns, among other things, subsidisation for young families, i.e. all those who acquire their first real estate unrelated to whether it is new or used real estate. This will certainly have a much greater effect not only from the perspective of social justice but we also consider economic efficiency since it will also affect the resuscitation of the real estate market that has been in a rather dormant state over the past years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21295	Thank you. I ask the esteemed MPs to vote whether the 3rd amendment should be included in the final draft law? The vote is over. With 80 votes against, 2 abstentions and 1 for that amendment will not be included in the final draft law. The 4th amendment was submitted by representatives Sasa Djujic, Sabina Glasovac, Peđa Grbin, Nenad Stazic, Marko Vecligaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21296	The government doesn't accept that amendment, and I just said the argument earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21297	Please vote on whether the above amendment should be included in the final draft law. Final vote. With 79 votes against, 2 abstentions and 1 for that amendment will not be included in the final draft law. The amendment submitted by MP Ivan Lovrinovic was not submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament since it did not specify which article the amendment refers to. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21298	Your Honor, Mr. President, I've been told of this failure, but please allow me since I stayed to speak for two minutes, if you won't say it, there's no problem in saying what I mean.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21299	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21300	Here's a chance for all those who perform on the political market and say they're fighting for young people to show today whether they're going to be paying more interest on their loans or not in the future. This proposal is deeply against the new demographic policy, which I find strange, the HDZ advocates this new demographic policy, and this measure is strongly against it. Let's be specific that... Take, for example, the young couple take a loan of 750 thousand kuna at 20 years, at 4.8% interest rate as proposed in this law and is considered to be a quality, or favourable interest rate, which is a very high interest rate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In 20 years, a young couple will pay only a total interest of 418 thousand 123 kuna. Is that acceptable? It is said that for four years the state will pay 50% of the war. Gentlemen, that's 116 thousand 808 kuna for you. When you reject the burden of total interest from this subsidy, the young couple still owes 301 thousand 315 kuna. Look what the burden of interest is, I made a proposal a week ago to grant young people housing loans. So let's take the same example, 20 years 750 thousand kuna at a fixed rate of 2%. Then the total interest in 20 years would be 160,000 kuna. Gentlemen, here's a chance, let's include our conscience, let's not vote against this demographic, so this will be very negative for demographic policy, and if you still support this proposal, please as parents you owe as parents when you come to your homes to tell your children that you have potentially overloaded them for double interest in the future today than it would be like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-01-0.u21301	Since he would ask esteemed representatives for a little more patience, since the amendment has not been adopted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, it cannot be voted on. I am voting on the final proposal of the Real Estate Tax Act. Please engage in the vote. The vote is over. I find that with 81 votes for, 2 abstentions and 3 against the passed Real estate tax law. Dear MPs and MPs, we continue on the agenda. Representative Salapic.
