ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u17791	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The SDP club is looking for a 15-minute break due to the state of the student centre and strike of employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u17792	Thank you. Here's your esteemed colleague, Mladen Madyer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u17793	On behalf of the HSS Club, I request a 15-minute recess on behalf of the Vice President regarding the contribution of the amendment to the regulation to the exploitation of the mining rent.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u17794	I thank my esteemed colleague, Madero. Is anyone else picking up? Dear colleague Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u17795	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I, on behalf of the HDZ Club, ask a nice 10-minute break to discuss today's International Day Against Violence Against Women. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u17796	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ljubica Lukacic. Since there's no one else to report for a break, I'm setting a 10-minute break. Resume at 9.45. It's 9:00.35. We're moving on with the session. On behalf of the SDP MPs' club, Stanku was asked first by a respected colleague, Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u17798	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice President. On the occasion of yesterday's protest of workers and employees at the Studen Centre for refusing the employer to sign the already agreed collective SDP agreement, he wants to support workers and workers in the student centre and their efforts to regulate their rights by collective agreement. We would also like to remind the Prime Minister, Mr Plenkovic, that his numerous promises and claims that one of his government's priorities will be his... from social dialogue. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It appears that the Prime Minister's promise has already failed the first test and that the Prime Minister has quickly forgotten the credibility of his policy. If the care of social dialogue is one of the priorities of this HDZ and MOST government, it is unthinkable that yesterday none of the representatives of the government found it appropriate to meet with workers to address the problem in the spirit of social dialogue. Such behaviour by the employer of the Student Centre, the Ministry of Science and the Government themselves sends a bad message to all other employers in the Republic of Croatia how to act in the collective bargaining process. Such a policy, the government collapses instead of continuing to build industrial relations in Croatia. The government creates an atmosphere of weakness instead of strengthening social partners, thus further destroying the fragile trust between social partners. We would like to inform students and workers at the Student Centre that it is the fundamental right of workers to have their rights in office by collective agreement with the employer and that the authorities are obliged to provide them with all the assumptions that these rights and exercise. Therefore, the SDP calls on government representatives, primarily the Minister of Science and Labour, to meet urgently with representatives of employers and trade unions operating at the Studen Centre to enable social partners to solve the problem and create assumptions for improving social dialogue in Croatia in line with their promises. We therefore once again order workers and workers at the Studenski center to be supported by the SDP in your efforts to elect your fundamental right and that is a collective contract. It tells all workers and workers in Croatia that you will always find support in the SDP for all your activities aimed at preserving and improving your fundamental rights, strengthening social dialogue and the overall system of industrial relations. Workers and workers of the student centre are not alone, fight for your rights through social dialogue, through a collective contract, and this is the obligation of both the student centre and the ministries and the Prime Minister himself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u17799	I thank my esteemed colleague Miranda Mrsic and also an apology for the invitation to the excess clutch. I hope he accepts an apology. The next break came on behalf of the HSS club, Mr. Mladen Madyer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u17800	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Allow me to address with a few words about the revenue from the hydrocarbon exploitation fee. The whole tax reform is largely affected by units of regional and local self-government. The income tax is their income, but since there are other significant revenues in the area of Croatia, such as the area of Koprivnica-križevci County, from which I come from the Municipality of Novigrad Podravski, there are other significant revenues and these are revenues from the exploitation of the hydrocarbons of the mining rentals that fill the budgets of local self-government units. And some units of local self-government depend largely on them and they have fallen alarmingly recently, which according to some of the information that I will present to you in practice in EU countries is not so. On several occasions, executive authorities, local self-government units from Koprivnica-križevacka, Bjelovar-Bilogorska and Virovitsk Podravna County addressed the competent authorities with an appeal about the necessity of amending the Regulation on monetary compensation for the exploitation of mineral raw materials. In fact, the monetary tax regulation for exploitation has changed over the years. By the end of 2009, she prescribed a minimum cash compensation of 3.10% that was direct income to local self-government units. The amendment of this Regulation has entered into force since 1.1.2010, the cash compensation remains 3.10% with the granting of counties 0.16 and the state 0.18. So there are 2.76 units left of local self-government. The next regulation in 2011, the fee increases to 5% and the new distribution goes to municipalities 2.5%, county 1% and state 1.5%. And in the 2014 regulation, the current current fee has been increased to 10%, where I must immediately mention that the reduction of gas prices by 50 limes taken by HEP and three by the Government of the Republic of Croatia's three decisions is the most significant decision which reduces the gas price from 2.20 lips to 1.70. So it's not 10% of the fee, it's 7.77%, which ultimately means that the fees of 2.33 receive municipalities, 1.55 counties and 3.85% go to the state budget. In this respect, HEP has an annual income of 300 million kuna that is not accounted for. It is therefore evident that the municipality's compensation is being reduced all the time as part of the county's state budget increases. It is interesting how this is shown neatly when the percentage of fees is increased over the years and in fact, when all the good research is done, the regulation has only clouded its eyes because the income to local self-government units has been increasingly reduced. The latest response from the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Mining that we received, was that the JLS fee was not reduced but increased but it is not true, however, because in reality the compensation was reduced by 2/3 compared to the situation before 1 January 2010. I wonder if you've often run this policy of disappearing units of local self-government? Lately, there have been more and more obligations of local self-government units and revenues have been lifted. I'm asking you if this is trying to naturally select the number of units of local self-government and regulation in a nice way smooths the eyes by increasing the percentage and in fact it's a very well-packed reduction of local self-government units. That is why we propose to change the regulation to increase the fees for exploitation from 10% to 12% and that its distribution is done in a way that 5% achieves municipalities, 5% of the county and 2% to go to the state budget and to introduce a compensation for the exploitation of mineral raw materials of 50 liras to the extent of the reduction in the gas prices of HEP. For the comparison in Germany, the fee for exploitation is 18%, in Austria is 15 to 22%, and Hungary, which was very interesting to us by 2008 was 16%, and since 2008, the rent for gas and crude oil is 12, 20 and 30% depending on the quantity taken out per well. This is why I call on all parliamentary representatives, regardless of the political commitment from the Koprivnica-Kryzevnica, Bjelovarska-Bilogorska, Virovitski-Podravska County, to sign a request to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to amend the Regulation on the mining rent.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u17801	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mladen Madgera. Next on behalf of the HDZ Club, a distinguished colleague, Ljubica Lukacic, asked for a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u17802	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs today is International Day against Violence against Women. The UN day was also declared in 1999, and it is marked as mentioning Sisters Mirabal, who were brutally murdered in the Dominican Republic back in 1960. Croatia has its national day marking September 22nd, which is also marked by the three brutally murdered women at the Municipal Civil Court in Zagreb and the attempted murder of another woman. Unfortunately, women are being discriminated against today, they are being abused, and we expect this to be as little as possible, but violence is unfortunately on the rise. According to data this year, 18 women were killed in the Republic of Croatia. That's significantly more than an average of 11 to 13 cases in the past few years. When we talk about violence against women I will briefly touch a woman with disabilities, women with disabilities are unfortunately exposed to violence even more, twice as much as women without disabilities. Violents are often among women with disabilities and women with disabilities close to them. All this says that the state should provide maximum support to women through its bodies, through national documents. I believe here I will now say so through ratification of the Convention on the Prevention of Violence against Women and Family Violence. This convention was signed three years ago. So the Republic of Croatia signed it but unfortunately there was no political will at the time to ratify it. The HDZ has put women, violence and family in its programme as something that is very, very important to her, so here I believe that, as soon as possible, we will ratify this convention and naturally pay more attention to violence against women than we have ever seen before. And until then, we expect women to report violence, not to be silent like many have been silent so far. Because in this year, more than 900 people have been punished, whether criminally or not, how many will not be punished just because many women have not reported violence. Report violence, don't be afraid they'll always find a way out of it. I believe that the women with the disability that we have strengthened this year and who have established a network of women to report violence. I'll tell you at the beginning when the SOS phone for women with disabilities worked out there were no applications. Today, nearly 10 years after the operation of SOS phones, women with disabilities are no longer afraid of reporting violence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19134	Good morning, I want esteemed and esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We'll proceed with the debate: 6. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2016, second reading, P.Z. Number 33 The bill promoter is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Constitution and Article 211 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Before continuing, Mr Miranda Mrssic. Here you go. I thank my esteemed colleague, Ljubica Lukacic. Let us move on to the debate on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2016. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This law will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament relating to the second reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The amendment was submitted by the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Pension Party. The debate was conducted by the parent committees – the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. You received the reports at the session. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State here at the Ministry of Finance in front of Mr. Zeljko Tufekčić's proposal. Also Mrs. Branko Mihaljevic, head of the finance ministry sector. Would the committee's reporters perhaps want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Does the Proposer's representative wish to further explain the proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19136	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed MPs and parliamentary deputies. So yesterday, the proposals for amendments and additions to the state budget and the budget of the external funds for 2016 are discussed in this House. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State budget is merely a summary and a copy of the amendments proposed in the rebalancing of the state and the budget of the extra-financial funds. Therefore, since changes and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2016 reduce the lack of the state budget. This law changes the amount of borrowing on the foreign and domestic money market and the capital market, as shown in the financing account. Therefore, the debt on the foreign and domestic market under the proposal of the Law on the implementation of the State budget can be implemented up to a maximum amount of 19 billion kuna. Therefore, the amount of possible debt is reduced. The current repayments of the general government debt in that bill also amount to 17 billion kuna, and according to the current law, this amount is 17.4 billion kuna. The level of debt and current payments for out-of- budget users of the state budget is also changed. Therefore, the out-of- budget user's mandate under this proposal can be 2.1 billion kuna. It is currently 2 billion, and the current repayments are the capital of 2.2 billion compared to the current 2.1 billion kuna. Furthermore, this law changes the amount of aid to certain units of local and regional self-government from the state budget, which are secured in the positions of the Ministry of Finance. The assistance to local and regional self-government units from the Ministry of Finance's division is now €694.8 million, which is an increase of €20 million compared to the original plan. From that amount of $9.1 million, it relates to the allocation of additional aid from the state budget to the county with the status of assisted area and vice-proportional to their index of development, and this is because the current allocation of aid to the county was in an unequal position in relation to municipalities and cities with the same status which received this aid during 2016. The remaining 10.9 million kunas are allocated to towns and municipalities with the status of mountain-mounted areas whose value of the development index exceeds 75% of the RH average, given that their income from the increased share in income tax is less than the estimated aid. Furthermore, this law changes the amount of the budget stock. In fact, as a number of extraordinary events took place during 2016, including the extraordinary parliamentary elections of 30 million kuna, budget funds are increasing and are now worth 230 million kuna. And finally the guarantee stock is increasing and amounts to 271 million kuna, which is an increase of 70 million kuna compared to the original plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19137	I would like to thank the proposer's representative, Mr. Secretary of State, Željko Tufekčić. Any of the committee reporters who want to take a word for it? There's no one here. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club, distinguished counterpart Branko Juričev-Martinchev applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19138	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. The final draft law amending and supplementing the 2016 State Budget Act will support the Croatian Democratic Community club. In fact, yesterday we talked about it, we discussed budgeting for the first six months, as well as budget rebalancing, so this act is an integral part of everything we said yesterday. I would like to repeat, and we are pleased to say that in the first half of 2016 we have positive movements in the domestic economy, gross domestic product recorded real growth of 2.7%. We also have increased growth in industrial production, traffic from retail to small, total number of overnight stays. Our construction activities have been downgraded since 2008. All of this has resulted in an increase in revenue in budget rebalancing, and then all of these changes are due and classify and comply with the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget. As could be seen, there will be a reduction in the deficit of the state budget and this law changes the amount of borrowing on the foreign and domestic money and capital market, and changes in the level of debt for extra-financial users, and the amount of the budgetary guarantee stock. In fact, the law changes the amount of the budget stock from 200 to 230 million kuna in the first article. We know that there was a radio on the items from which different expenditures were financed that could not be planned or planned for another sentence. So from the consequences of removing elementary disasters, extraordinary events, and we know that this year we have had extraordinary parliamentary elections. So reserve funds can amount to up to 0.50% of planned budget revenues without receipts, and therefore this increase is proposed to increase this item by 30 million kuna. In foreign and domestic debt, we are reducing that item under the current law can be 23.9 billion, down to 19 billion, as well as the current repayments of the general government debt of 17.4 billion, and now would be reduced to 17 billion. When it comes to extra budget users, the amount of debt and current payments is changed, we will increase that amount from 2 billion kuna to 2 billion and 100 000 million as well as the current repayments of the principal from 2 billion to 100 million to 2 billion and 200 million. It would again express the regret and dissatisfaction that we were having yesterday in the debate that we were all talking about. Unfortunately, the Environmental Protection Fund is missing, and this is growing, so here is another appeal to those who are leading the Environmental Protection Fund and their administrations to try as hard as possible and better to address these losses and the deficit we now have. In fact, it's obvious that much more has been negotiated than the resources available, and we know that the Environment Fund is one fund that has safe and very good and high incomes, so all of this is unacceptable together. The guarantee stock is also increasing and the amount of 171 million kuna is now expected to amount to 271 million kuna, while according to the current law 201. What will certainly please local (regional) and regional self-government units, especially those in mountainous and mountainous areas, is that they are increasing aid from the distribution of the Ministry of Finance and will now amount to 398 million kunas and these changes are increasing by 20 million kuna. Nine million and 100 grand is about helping the county. The ones with the status of assisted areas and that in reverse proportional terms. So those who are more developed will get less and less developed more for the reasons that the current distribution of these aids to the county were in an unequal position compared to municipalities and cities with the same status. Also, municipalities and cities with mountain-mounted status whose value of the development index exceeds 75% will receive an additional 10 million kuna, given that their income from an increased share in income tax is less than anticipated in terms of municipalities and cities with basic distribution. In 2014, the Regional Development Act did not acquire the status of an assisted area, and subsequently the Law amending the law on the financing of units of local (regional) and regional self-government allocated an increased amount to municipalities and cities with basic distribution. And for that very reason, this particular unit will now receive an additional 10 million and 900 thousand kuna. When it came to the topic of a new tax reform, there was also a lot of questions and remarks that cities and municipalities and counties would get a significantly smaller amount, that this regional distribution was not okay. The EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds has therefore announced amendments to the legislation that will contribute to regional development. So, according to the Minister's announcement, we are already expecting in the first quarter of next year a proposal for a new Regional Development Act and a new direction towards development and a new government plan for new regional development. As a result, the creation of an analytical basis for redefining statistical regions during the new financial period has also been launched, so I believe that those injustices that have been done precisely according to these units of local (regional) and regional self-government will be rehabilitated and all these areas will be processed in one more quality way. And here is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget of the HDZ Club will support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19139	I thank my esteemed colleague, Branko Juričev-Martinchev. We have a replica of this debate, distinguished colleague Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19140	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues. You mentioned the problem of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, there was a lot of talk here yesterday, it is definitely a problem that directly affects local self-government, because local self-government has mostly benefited from these funds and the opportunities of the Environment Fund for various programmes and projects in local self-government areas. You said you needed trust management to deal well with it and find solutions. But I'd say, that's for sure, but as I said yesterday on several occasions, but it's a good, fat deal and where that big deficit occurred, that huge loss of 757 million kuna, which is the cause and who's the main culprit for that loss that we put it on the table somewhere so that we know where to go so that something like that doesn't happen in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19141	I thank my esteemed colleague, Branko Hrg. Reply to the replica, distinguished colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19142	Thank you very much. So esteemed colleague Hrg, it was really sad to watch the report, a half-yearly report of our budget saying that the lack of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund is 349 million kuna and compare it with their expenditures of 893.8 million kuna, which are figures that talk enough about one very bad business and irresponsible business. We who have been or are still cities and municipalities know very well that we will not go to call a competition, negotiate, approve some funds until we have secured them and in this case the figures speak enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19143	I thank my esteemed colleague, Branko Martinchev-Juricev, for his reply. The following has appeared for an individual discussion by distinguished counterpart Željko Lackovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19144	I thank the esteemed Vice President. I didn't expect to be in line this soon because things are probably all settled. So what has been brought into line with the budget is now either spent or strictly intended, so I wanted to put the amendment at yesterday's point, so on the rebalancing, so I was advised that this is a practically inconclusive situation so that we should change today's budget law among other things. And I will now announce what we are going to do as a draft budget for 2017 and future rebalancing in which we, as parliamentarians, should be more involved, whether through clubs or through counselling, this is how we bring rapid changes to the budget and the Budget Implementation Act and then we do not have an insurance item, that is, the legal basis by which we would like to allocate certain funds. And I wanted to introduce other than mountainous and mountainous areas and areas of special status, with a special status, another area in the Republic of Croatia, which is a desert area. Now that desert, I come from Djurdjevac, so Djurdjevac sands are Croatian Sahara, and recently there we have new inhabitants of the camel. So we're all desert to you, and among other things, we're producing gas. We have 40% of all gas supplies in the Republic of Croatia. Among other things, we have 80%... in the Republic of Croatia and we receive a 3 % ore of the market price of gas sold on the market in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, where the problem is, and why should we be put as a Croatian Sahara as a special area and depreciated, it lies with you in the fact that the government made a decision in 2014 which determined that by the end of 3rd month 2017, the main supplier for households would be HEP. And then HEP, among other things, received one price that is not marketable. Now that the rent is calculated from the market price and on the one achieved on the market, we are in that part cut off. And now what part is this, and why are we asking those 600 million kunas that HEP has shown profit now I'm going to show you in the following facts. For example, in 2015, a decision was made that INA must therefore sell 580 million cubic metres of gas at the price of HEP from 1 kuna and 59 June and then on the same day on 12 March 2015. The government has decided that HEP will sell this to suppliers or households of 2 kuna and 12 limes. So at a higher price of 53 lip per cubic metre. And when you multiply it by 500 million cc's as much as my INA data shows that HEP earned 265 million kuna in 2015. Also in 2016, the price was determined that HEP will sell suppliers, that INA is obliged to HEP at 1.27 and HEP to citizens at 1.61, so again there are 34 June, again at 500 million cubic metres, which is 170 million to you. So 170 plus these we said 260, so 270, here's where you get your profits and profits from HEP, from the price difference on the INA manufacturer's burden. Now INA let it fight for itself, it has its own mechanisms but I'm fighting for units of local self-government that receive a mine rent because they're directly cut off by a billion cc's of gas, difference in price for all three, plus 2 percentage points that belong to the county, by 5% in price difference. You see what the price difference is, 500 million, almost 500 million kuna. And now that you take 5% of about 25 million kuna, the local self-government unit has been cut off directly because the mining rent is not paid and accounted for as prescribed by the law, so 5% of the market price, not the price prescribed by the government that the INA has to sell to HEP, HEP for 500 million, we lose 25. I'm trying to do it through rebalancing and it didn't go through. We asked for an increase in the rent to 12%, so we're going to deliver the same thing to the Ministry of Finance, we've only delivered it before, and it's said that we're not in the master's, so 3% we have to cut the deficit. Now we've come below the 3%. And I expect you to adopt these our proposals when the mountain-mounted special purpose is supported then you will also desert us because the money we are looking for from the state budget back very well through half a billion cubic metres of gas exploited annually in our country budget will be added indirectly through HEP or through the ownership stake in INA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19145	I thank my esteemed colleague Lackovic for this debate. A distinguished colleague colleague, Miro Bulj, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19146	Thank you very much. Col. Lackovic would agree with you entirely if there were desert areas along the mountainous and mountainous areas, which are exclusively exploited mainly mineral raw materials, which are obviously local communities, local self-governments. Of course, there is also obviously some connection between the authorities performed and those exploiting these areas because the obvious disregard of the law does not do inspection services its job. Because if the market price for charges to local self-government is what should be and not what comes to one's mind to prescribe, it means that it seems to be a pity to those living in that area and indeed in those areas and mountainous and mountainous areas and as you said and desert areas the only thing that is being exploited is essentially forgotten areas and unfortunately we are only brought today that 2/3 of Croatia are empty, and moving with a great tendency to remain literally desert areas. And indeed the policy direction and the exploitation of these areas must change, so when we look at here, not only did you say mineral raw materials, but also the use of telecommunications that has no great compensation for it, I don't know if there's a general state, but yesterday we talked to the board about teleoperate and local self-government and various other HEPs and other infrastructures. Indeed local self-government has been forgotten and the central state is making good incomes and obviously those who manage it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19147	I thank you for the replica of my esteemed colleague, Mir Bulj. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Lackovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19148	Thank you. Therefore, there will be deserts more and more in Croatia, so it is necessary to redefine the categorization of development across Croatia, not only the criteria that have been taken into account so far but also the demographic image should be taken into account, because this very demographic image can very well and inspectively show where these problems are in the Republic of Croatia and why we will soon become a large part of the desert land even though we will have working fields. And I'm surprised that someone didn't think of it and introduce special bonuses for the extraordinary management of HEP because you see HEP doing a very good job when he peeled off at the dumped price at which INA had to sell gas, citizens with a price difference and made a profit of 500 million kuna. And that's what the state has put into the budget now, it hasn't nearly paid back to those of whom it's paid out of citizens, but at least we don't have these bonuses that we've heard about when companies do very well business and it's about monopolies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19149	I thank my esteemed colleague Lackovic for his reply to the replica. Next to the debate came the esteemed colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19150	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. First of all, the rebalancing mentions 10.9 million kunas of aid from the budget to units of local self-government that are really damaged not only by this law, the regional law of 2014 where the indexation was unfair, but really damaged and forgotten by areas where we have a demographic decline means the most innovative policy is not guided. It's one whole area, so we'll take it from the backs of Dubrovnik, the non-retva section, all the way to Slavonia. By observing my Dalmatian Zagora micro and the Cetin region, since we have today from 90th on the 91st list, more than 20,000 people have moved out and only according to the 2001-2011 census, we have three thousand people less. Suddenly in 2014 these areas were declared developed. Indeed, this 5.9 million kuna measure is not enough, but it is because these local administrations are damaged because they've been exploited, so here I am on the board, asking how many countries can get from using telecommunications, renewable energy sources that we now see wind power plants. How much does it actually end up in local self-government or central cash register? So the area where I live and where I pass literally the infrastructure was electric, any time we can simply bring tourists here and, as during Doc Holliday, pillars where wires go, electricity infrastructure is old, falling apart, not investing, and let's say that Cetina produces the most electricity in the Republic of Croatia over 40%. Which is why these self-government sites have no compensation, but in this way you need to be politically here in the Parliament so that I have to talk to the minister so that he decides to help these underdeveloped areas of other local self-government are the basis for the development of Croatian society. I agree that the new indexation should be much fairer and that the new indexation of these funds serves development rather than that local leaders exclusively buy votes, to share the social. We should simply include this gauge that all these funds that the state grants to the underdeveloped are exclusively invested in the development of these local environments and not in something that will not get a new value and we will not get it. Once again, I would ask you if you had the information, and I asked you on the board, how many Croatian waters did what was paid, so channel cleaning, do you have any data in this country? Because local self-government doesn't have the right to control. Who oversees the work of examples of Croatian waters on the ground? Is there anyone in this country that publicly, no matter what the minister of my government, from the Most. How do these money flows work, and no one controls whether the job is done on the ground, and people pay for it. And local self-government has no control over it. And so it's in a number of other segments, so it can only be saved by one law, so let me give you an example, by one ordinary law. Well, I don't think there would be a deficit for all local self-governments of regional, state, numerous agencies to leave their car keys in a tight spot from Friday to Monday and that it's legal. Only in case of real need. How many cars did she drive on the weekends of official paying means our citizens in the flow of a local self-government and owned by a small one, we'll find a micro one. Count. Only on fuel would it be a minor deficit, it wouldn't exist. Therefore, the state’s office must come to those duties. Because it is obviously not well managed by state property, and everything to the detriment of Croatian citizens is mostly repeated in undeveloped areas. I am pleased to walk the city of Zagreb and watch how it is restored, how beautiful it is. However, when you come to the hinterland or Slavonia or Dalmatian hinterland or Lika or Gorski Kotar, which means that the state is centralized and that this budget that we bring about rebalancing is not changed, Croatia will unfortunately remain only in Zagreb and a few major environments. The rest will be empty without a hearth, without children mainly in areas that were once the source of human potential. It is the Dalmatian Zagora, Herzegovina, Lika, where there were numerous families, where people came to larger cities and even Western Europe. Now it's the other way around. I hope that it will no longer happen in agriculture that that money that was supposed to be from the EU in the budget is not going to go to tycoons, not to the OPGs. And that's one of the reasons why people leave, 50,000 Slavs, they're only gone for one reason because they didn't get the incentives that were meant for them. One more time. The Dalmatian Zagora is forgotten, Lika, Gorski Kotar and Slavonia. The next budget plan to at least compensate those ends. Otherwise, the only thing we will have in Croatia is the city of Zagreb, where people will have opportunities to live normally and their children. And in these areas that we list for days children have no free textbooks, no organised transportation to schools, no basic health services, villages are extinct and these small environments remain empty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19151	I thank my esteemed colleague Miri Bulju for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a respected counterpart, Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19152	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bulj, listening to you struggle to transfer some of the money from HEP to local self-government. However, counterpart Lackovic said nicely. If HEP earns 600 million kuna per year on citizens and entrepreneurs and economics, I believe that this country would move forward if it reduced gas prices to citizens, and especially to entrepreneurs where gas is largely in the cost of their own, so I think it would be more necessary to raise a little economy than to give locals the power to throw it away and ultimately no one can benefit from it. You've been doing something like that for years. What colleague Lackovic mentioned in the desert, and something needs to be given for the deserts. Here's your end, your backs are likely to be Lika, and even if it's possible, Slavonia will become a desert one day and we'll be looking for something that should belong to that desert. But I'll be back again. We need to raise our economy and our citizens, and then we've solved all the problems. Locals need to be reduced, and I don't know who's driving those official vehicles, and we know who's going the far way, so from your party, you might as well tell your own car to Metkovic doesn't have to go official and cost the state. And we know that at the Most, we asked to rationalize everything and that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19153	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ivica Misic, for the replica. Replication response, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19154	I'll start at the end. If it wasn't for the Independent Lists, you wouldn't be a parliamentary representative like me. I'm telling you this openly now. And the easiest way is through someone you've come to this House to attack him now. And we're gonna take a serious, serious side we're gonna go Indeed, the economy needs to be disbursed, especially in undeveloped areas. [[Intruding Brkić: A fellow Mišić please allow your colleague Bulju to finish.]] And tax reforms if you don't relieve the undeveloped businesses of having more favourable conditions than in developed areas, no one will invest in those areas, and so on from the electricity industry. Of electricity where huge profits really are made by the farmers in these areas should pay less and electricity as well as the residents because examples on the river Cetina 40% are produced by electricity in the Republic of Croatia. And many people have gone to live in Slavonia because of these artificial lakes, and now it's also one desert, and it's exclusively exploited, and nothing remains for that population or local self-government. How this will encourage entrepreneurs with these resources is again the ability of those as you told local sheriffs where we really have this problem. Exploitation of these areas is indeed in an unprecedented proportion and all in favour of the central state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19155	I thank my esteemed colleague Bull for his reply to the replica. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Professor Branko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19156	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, we've been talking here for several days now about this development index and the need to change the development index etc., etc., I just want to remind you that what Mr. Bulj is always talking about only one or two, three cities is of course something that results from the application of this development index, but the consequence of this application of the development index is 100 units, here's the list here you see. 100 units or less than 100 units that have never been in the support system for 20 years, and now are thanks to the application of the index. 95% of them are in Slavonia and the northern so-called undeveloped part of northern Croatia and never forget it. I'll probably have a chance to read it here to people who are all places, now I don't have time, but don't ever forget it. Secondly, a direct remark to this budget that you yourself have made, meaning places that have fallen out of the support system temporarily with compensations and all others is part of the mountain-mounted areas, there is Sinj, there is Vrgorac. So our government immediately increased the share of these units in income tax, immediately. The second measure was supposed to be a minimum of 40 million, not this 7 but a minimum of 40 million in the State Budget Act, which the previous Oreshkovic government did not do. And don't call us for it anymore. So the government, Mr. Oreshkovica, didn't do it. And now again in the rebalancing we don't see it, but we see 7 million, and we don't know who it goes to at all, whether it's for mountainous or other areas. And thirdly, the forest contribution should be increased from 5 to 7.5%, which also brings certain funds to these units. There is also cleaning in the winter conditions of snow etc. which some others should take over, the Croatian Roads, so all this is not realized, there has been a change of government and we have not been able to realize it to the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19157	I thank my esteemed colleague, Greek for the replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19158	Thank you very much. Dear Greek, that you did not reduce by the first and second groups in the supported areas the amount of funds but only redistributed by the criteria of the index of example the number of structures of education. So the more education you're in, the more your development index is, no matter what these ends are forgotten. And that's why Sinj fell out, it's so unfair no matter what he's moving out of the area. I'm not saying you should get Sinj in that amount, of course you need to redistribute but a fairer redistribution. But you threw out Sinj and the Cetinian end, and you declared it a developed which is not true and a vervainous end. Look around, we'll come together and you'll see... an example of a village under the Silk that doesn't have water supply. 20km from Split you declared it a developed area, and you did not reduce it because of some savings amount of funds. You understand me, the amount of aided area remains absolutely the same, you selectively threw out some areas, aimed at unfair indexation at the expense of other local self-governments. I agree with you that all these units should enter, but much more just and fairer and the development index should be based on facts, demographics, economic conditions, economic conditions, migration and a variety of very important things for these areas. And you've literally declared the cetin end a developed and vervainous end of a burned country. Liku, Gori Kotar Mountain, you brought the Kotar Mountain, and your mayors rebelled. I've collected 8,000 signatures of Sinjan you know, I've brought to make a fairer index, only fairer, indexation, criteria, indexation. I hope this has to be done urgently, and I know that this government didn't get off to the best start because it didn't have time, but hopefully we'll change it now, but all together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19159	I thank my esteemed colleague Bull for his reply to the replica. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Damir Mateljan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19160	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Bulj, I am truly astounded at the astounded as you really are in the Voo House, each time you stand for demographically undeveloped areas in the Republic of Croatia for rural space and I am convinced that now that you are part of the executive government when you are part of the establishment that runs this country and when you have tools in your hands to change it for the better that you will do so. And the proof that that is the case is the first set of laws that came to the table here with us MPs, which are tax laws that have taken away two billion kunas from the local self-government, these are laws that have further centralized Croatia and these are the laws that your MOST and HDZ government are offering for the rural development of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19161	I thank my esteemed colleague Matjana for the replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19162	Thank you very much. Indeed, if your party hadn't acted in the way they participated in the last 20 years, I wouldn't have been part of what you said, certainly wouldn't have been a parliamentary representative. I am not in any incubator scheduled to advance politically, simply the people have me along with the Most Independent Lists I have my own independent list at the local level I have fought as other people of course. And he certainly wouldn't be a parliamentary representative. But when you talk about tax reforms, of course 300 billion debt, 17 billion kuna in 2017 should be paid back. So do you know during this time here is your government and the previous so that you wouldn't think now but I'm replicating you, 100 billion kuna is in charge of Croatia. An example of local self-government when the mayor of the sea is in charge of the city council or... Our governments are getting everything, and this one too, unfortunately, is in debt without asking Parliament is it true? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Have either of you voted in favour of the Republic of Croatia at the assembly of your representatives? No one. I'm sorry it's not that long as local self-government has the obligation to put forward a proposal on borrowing and tendering and various things. But the fact is that only the government of Mr. Zoran Milanovic, the president of your club, owed Croatia 100 billion kuna in 2017, without justifying us to return the interest of 17 billion kuna due to a loan that was not asked by the people or parliamentary or parliamentary, i.e. MPs of the people. So it's all twisted, it's all twisted, it's all twisted, so far it's been the Pharaoh's system obedient, but it really needs to be changed and brought back really what needs to be done, and that's parliamentary democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19163	I thank my esteemed colleague Bull for his reply to the replica. The next call came from distinguished counterpart Davor Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19164	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Bulj, you often discuss here the problem of undeveloped areas and municipalities and cities in this area and in laws that have not helped in any way or have contributed to undeveloped areas and that young people are moving away and that is where I support you. And we've often had similar discussions together. But here you are now discussing as if you were an opposition. Me and the HSS invite you to pass concrete laws and measures that will really change something on the ground. And in the context of this, here is a constructive proposal, I believe that you will support the proposal that Mr. Mader made this morning to increase the mining rent from 10 to 12%, because if MOL pays in Hungary 12, 20 and 30% why MOL and INA don't pay in Croatia and 5% get municipalities, 5% of the county to increase their revenues and can make investments and improve the quality of life in this area. And I believe that you will also support my colleague Lackovic's proposal that part of the income that HEP earned on citizens through the price of gas 600 million have shown profits let it return through this amendment to the units of local and regional self-government. And you mentioned that local leaders often have no influence on investments in their area through state-owned companies. One of the larger investors in the local field is Croatia's waters, and I believe that you will also contribute to making better communication with local self-government units through quality staff, and that they can manage these investments along with Croatian waters and that there is no crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19165	Thank you. I thank my esteemed colleague Davor Vlaovic for his replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19166	Thank you, colleague Vlaovic, we have indeed, we have often encountered the same topics and indeed the same goal. Do you really think that, or perhaps you don't believe that there are parliamentary representatives who aren't on click, when opposition must speak one thing, when power is another? Let's say when you were in power during Karamark with HDZ you spoke very moderately, in a wash, and now you're like an opposition, write down what you said I'll support, here, give a legal proposal. So I'm a parliamentary representative and I have the right to propose and support you or not to support you. If we have a common goal and if we continue to be on the click of parliamentary representatives, opposition, opposition, I do not know whether the Croatian Peasant Party is opposition or ruling, Mr. Beljak will respond later but I really believe that all these rentals must remain either local economy or local leaders. And I really agree with you here. And I believe that this Parliament must not be clicked by parliamentary representatives when the opposition hits it on one, the electric heater and when the power is at 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19167	I thank my esteemed colleague Bull for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19168	Thank you very much. So, you mentioned your colleague Bulj in one part of the business, i.e. the obligation and responsibility of Croatian water to clean the canals. So this is one piece of information, over 2 million kunas of water compensation are collected annually in the city of Vodice. We're overjoyed when in one year, some 60, 70,000 kuna are set aside to clean the canal. You've all seen what happened and what damage we've suffered since the heavy rainfall in 2014, in 2015. After a series of appeals by the arrival of Deputy Director General Fani Bojanic, we had our first high-quality and serious meeting on the subject, but since this part should be done, the water economy facility in Split has all stopped again. Obviously or we are waiting for new rains and here today it is raining in Vodice and again the same fear that the same and great damages that would not have been so much if these channels had been properly maintained and cleaned. So ask you to, since this is about the part that is in the resolution ministry, which is under your authority to do something that is done not only to Vodice but to all cities and municipalities, because a very large amount of funds is collected and very, very little is invested in violence itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19169	I thank my esteemed colleague, Branko Jurichev. Answer Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19170	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. You are right colleagues, huge money sits on the accounts of Croatian Waters and in all jobs means what the obligations are to maintain channels, to maintain a variety of these streams. The question is, are they done, why are floods happening? The same problem is in my Sinj, the Cetinski region, the same problem in Slavonia. How much money was collected from Croatian waters in fact given to someone literally without the work being done properly? I asked who the controller was? Local self-government has no control over it. Now imagine they're nice jobs, nobody controls you, from citizens for sure... money and you give it through some contests, whether it's cleaned, uncleaned, maintained, unsustained they don't care. And it doesn't matter if it's the Minister of the Most, whether the HDZ Minister, from the SDP, is his obligation and these structures in the Croatian waters to set up a business professionally and it's up to us to change the law and to involve local self-government in the supervisory section of the bar so that no more Gunja will happen, so the problem of Neretva down and Metkovic, Vodice and other cities as well as the outflows of the river Cetina will no longer happen. So wherever you live by the river, with some canals that aren't being maintained, the plumbers, the people are paying, and basically what you pay, we don't know, and that's billions. Until this Parliament makes a strong law together with the ministry that will give control and local self-government until then it will be the Pharaohs within Croatian waters or Croatian roads or I don't know where. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19171	I would like to thank you for your response to the replica of my esteemed colleague, Buljo. Next to the replica, a distinguished colleague, Branko Hrg, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19172	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bulj, you've made a good point, although realistically looking at this part of the implementation of the budget decision, i.e. the rebalance, and not so much about it now, but I think it's a good opportunity to talk a little bit more about this. So the water treatment fee is something that is collected from every citizen, every entrepreneur, craftsman throughout the Republic of Croatia. Now you've mentioned the notion of the local sheriff, I don't like that term because he's constantly presented in this assembly. The sheriff is a person who cares about the law, about the development of his end and everything else, unfortunately it's trying to do it differently, and then even local leaders often want to get away from it. So why would they run away from it? But not that there's no control over what's going on, but we don't even have the ability to suggest what to do right now. In time, local self-governments have proposed to these water economies regional and local, which canals, fail, water streams will be arranged in an agreed manner, together with everything central. You no longer have a general opportunity to point out the problem and ask for it to be done. I personally asked that we would not take charge of these payments unless we knew where that money was spent and if local self-government had no right to decide at least one percentage part of the funds collected there. And I, as the town of Križevci, don't want to take that charge even though we've been pushed all these years. I won't, even if I'm in violation.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19173	I thank my esteemed colleague, Branko Hrg, for the replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19174	Thank you very much. I quoted my fellow Music as local sheriffs, at which point he said that certain funds were better for citizens than for local sheriffs. Of course local self-government doesn't control or decide and the citizens of these local self-government are essentially paying and having damages because they pay for what they don't do. So they've got double damage. Of course, this centralization of power strengthens this kind of Pharaohic influence within such institutions as these. Croatian waters. And of course there are a variety of anomalies going on inside that and basically local self-government citizens and entrepreneurs are not satisfied. That's the problem with centralization. I am absolutely decentralisation for a number of reasons and another very important, if we have examples of decentralised funds for the county, mayors assign these funds to and the county council, to whom? Those political options, those political units where their political options are I can testify in my county, absolutely unregulated and very difficult situation for certain local self-government and citizens from these local self-government because everything is obviously centralized by the political key and in fact we need to fight for decentralisation and Croatia's waters are a particular issue as well as the road. That should be discussed for hours and hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19175	I thank my esteemed colleague Bull for his reply to the replica. With this, we've exhausted the replicas in this debate. We move on to the next debate, the final word on behalf of the HNS club, HSU's esteemed colleague Milorad Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19176	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State with an assistant, colleagues and colleagues. Through rebalancing, through the debate on rebalancing, we mainly pointed to everything yesterday, but I would just like to remind you that we have also given the amendment to the budget rebalancing and we also had to give an amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget. I'm going to look around here for a little bit about the amendment, namely, let's say some compensation, compensation for lost funds at the level of units of local self-government that have lost the status of the mountain-mountan area simply because the application of the State Budget Act even though certain changes have not been made in this way. We want to correct one illogicality and also a large number of local self-government units have been wronged and through these amendments to the Law on the implementation of the state budget we are seeking to minimise this. In fact, yesterday I was also talking about an illogicality in Article 39, Article 38, so I'm just going to repeat myself for illustration. Namely, two units of local self-government in the Varazdin County both lost their status as hill-mounted. The index is very little percentage difference from each other. One has 8200 inhabitants, the other 1800. Before 2013, they had the same income here somewhere with the help of current aid. So what they've achieved is the status of a mountain-mounted mountain-mounted mountain-mounted mountain-mounted mountain-mounted mountain-mounted state so now, according to this calculation, I'm pointing to illogicality, the law is what it is, but it's not the logic of the law. For one to receive aid from 110 kuna per capita, with a budget of 750 original tax revenues per capita while another who has 954 kuna per capita would receive support from 741 kuna. 78% of their tax revenues receive support under the Law on the implementation of the state budget, that is absurd. I'm not saying they don't need it, though. I wish it could be that much more, but it's absurd. And that's why we gave the amendment. Yesterday in the debate, I gave a copy of it to the minister and assistant minister. I hope they will respect our amendment and we are, of course, because it is very difficult, it is difficult to make an adequate formula and a better calculation, a fairer calculation. Until this is done in the following year, we have proposed an amendment practically that all units of local self-government that have lost their benefits through the status of mountain-mountan area should not be reduced by more than 25%. In this situation where you have absurd situations totally illogical, not to say extremely unfair, we think it's the only real measure. Of course it's not permanent. And I certainly agree with the discussions that were here and about the indexation. Of course, the development index is applicable. The units of local self-government, with few inhabitants, are practically not acceptable as a representative. Too small a sample size. It could be possible for the county and the big cities. However, there are systemic errors. That's what I pointed out in the government where we were a coalition partner. There was a solution. Unfortunately, it wasn't found. It was too short a time. The government passed, not now this one has not acted further, has not worked further. But now is the chance to correct this injustice. Furthermore, unless the amendment is accepted, of course, we won't be able to support that law. And what I must stress is that we have announcements next week of Wednesday's debate on tax laws. We will oppose it, especially those I think are three or four tax laws. We were simply asked to believe. It was claimed that this government was credible, and it was promised if you remember a colleague and a colleague that compensation measures would be calculated. Unfortunately, none of that. So I say, if the amendment is accepted for what we consider justice, we are prepared to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19177	I thank my esteemed colleague, Milorad Batinić. We have a replica of a distinguished colleague of Professors. Branko Greek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19178	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, who about anything, I about index. So whatever index it is, whatever some units are going to be, they're going to get back into the system, and some of them are going to get out of the system, and they're going to be very, very unhappy. He doesn't have a colleague of the Bulls to hear it yet. And here it is, excuse me. There it is, there it is. So they'll always be dissatisfied and we all need to know that clearly. So at this point over 290 units of 550 are in the support system. However, what concerns me more and what my colleague spoke about earlier are these tax changes that are being prepared. So, don't forget, I'm particularly looking at the position that decides on it. This proposal that we have at the moment completely eliminates the difference in participation, in the income tax of units of local self-government, because the total income tax is 80% going to local self-government units regardless of whether they are developed or not. And the other thing that's being abolished is the support for the salaries of people living in assisted areas. Namely, those little higher salaries to understand where income tax is paid, and those who do not pay will not continue to pay it. But it's important because I've already told the teacher, the professor, the doctor, etc. means highly qualified people who have been stimulated through higher wages to go to Knin, Petrinje, Bela Manastir or I don't know which other place in assisted areas and who perform very important social functions there. So please think about it. This means regional policy is important, significantly depreciated. You need to find a system that will solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19179	I thank my esteemed colleague, Greek for the replica. Replication response, distinguished colleague Milorad Batinić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19180	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Greek, I believe you remember my discussions and the debates we had inside clubs regarding indexation. And that's when I said that she was unfair and that the development index couldn't be applied to a small sample. That's what you're aware of. We didn't do what we might have to do then. And I would also remind you, and what I'm going to suggest next week, we're going to go with the bill so that just so units of local self-government can function in an adequate way, I suggested that in the debate on tax laws that we go to a fiscal level in a way that units of local self-government that don't get any kind of let's say appropriate revenues that they can even exist, that the difference is complemented, or that they come from the state budget, but that, first of all, a complete reform of local self-government, a complete reform of the tax system, means an integrated approach. If we don't do it for the next 10 years, we'll have all kinds of situations. I agree also with you, and I was also in the debate that these tax laws I believe and you and I expected a lot more. Unfortunately, when all of this comes together, and we will see in the second reading whether there have been any changes, it will be worth supporting. However, what I find important, the Law on the financing of local self-government units was a speech in the first reading when the tax laws were already being discussed and then there was an announcement of the financing of 80% of JLS, and 20% I don't know the county or how, unfortunately, none of it. So who do you trust when practically public councilmen are told, and it doesn't come true?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19181	I would like to thank you for your response to the replica of the esteemed colleague Batinić. With this, we've exhausted the replicas in this debate. I'm also concluding a debate on this agenda point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19182	Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2016, second reading, P.Z.BR.33. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the HNS and HSU Representatives' Club. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be informed of the amendment submitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The government does not accept this amendment. Those units of local self-government that require additional allocations of aid are included in the category of units of mountain and mountain areas which in 2015, given their development, have not acquired the status of the assisted area. In 2015, because they had not acquired the status of the assisted area, they had the right to transitional assistance. However, since amendments to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional, i.e. regional self-government from 2015 to those units have increased the share of non-intentional income in income tax from 60% to 70.5 have lost the same right to transitional aid in 2016. In addition to that unit, they have acquired the right to an additional share of the income tax of 10% intended to finance capital projects in their area. This increase from income tax to local self-government units reflected a reduction in the share of counties in income tax revenues from 16 and a half percent to 12. In addition to that, the same units of local self-government do not allocate funds to the Fund to help compensate for decentralised functions. And in the first amendment to the state budget, I have counted the cities and municipalities that, with this proposal or the draft budget rebalancing, have provided for an increase in resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19184	Proposer of the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19185	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, so we tried the first one, we tried the last amendment. I see you don't practically want to accept the fact that you follow the law, you respect the law, but you won't admit that the law is bad and that you should definitely make changes. And we proved it, and I proved it through the debate mathematically. Math is exact and you wanted to right wrong, you did even more wrong than it was with existing amendments to the law. So we suggested that you take this step and that it just balances that loss among everyone equally, means linearly to go to the compensation of everyone they've lost. Of course, it's much less than how much they lost, but to help us bridge not just this year and next year. Because we see from tax changes, changes in tax laws that these losses will be an even greater team than expected and the growth of budget revenues in the following year at unit level of local self-government of three to five percent which you certainly won't be able to compensate for. So those losses will be multiple. We will propose amendments to the Regional Development Act where we will go to a fiscal balance. I believe that you will also consider this as a financier and the Ministry of Regional Development precisely that the units of local self-government that are thus far less income and will benefit in the future under these tax laws, that they can in fact normally exist and that as units of local self-government they can comply with a fundamental constitutional provision, means that in some way the citizens of the Republic of Croatia living in these areas can provide the minimum that units of local self-government can. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19186	Thank you, counsel. I ask the honourable MPs to approach the vote whether the above-mentioned amendment will be accepted. The vote is over. I find most of the vote 77 against, four abstentions, 29 for. Amendment of the HNS and HSU Representatives Club was not accepted. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2016. Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most votes, 80 for, 3 abstentions and 26 against the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2016.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19187	We move on to the following respected MPs and MPs, now should be point 7. Proposal for a law on the powers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in the part of the Croatian Parliament, since the Committee on the Constitution did not hold a session, I propose the basis of Article 247. I would also suggest that the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament be moved to points 8, 9, 10 and 11. I would also suggest that we unite them in one debate, since the motion is the Government and the Resort Ministry of Defence. If you agree to unify that debate by these four points, then it's about: 8. Proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in a mission to support peace, Resolution Support in Afghanistan, 9. Proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in UN Peace Support Operations 10. Proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in an operation to support KFOR's peace in Kosovo, 11. Proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the EU Peace Support Operation NAVFOR Somalia, Atalanta. So I propose a united debate. If you agree, is there any objection? There isn't. Thank you. So we move to a united debate on these four points of the agenda. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 54 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the Defence Act and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to you in boxes. The debate was conducted by the committee responsible for legislation and by the Defence Committee. You received the reports at the session. I welcome here the representative of the motion secretary of state at the Ministry of Defence, Mr Tomislav Ivic. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? He does. Here you go. Dear colleague Mr. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defence, Mr. Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19188	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of counsel and counsel. So before you is the proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the armed forces in the various missions in 2017. It is six operations in which the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia have been participating for many years, for example in the operation in Afghanistan, armed forces of the Republic of Croatia have been participating since 2003. Of these six operations, two operations are under the auspices of NATO alliances, it is operations in Afghanistan and Kosovo, three operations are UN operations and these are operations in Lebanon, India and Pakistan, and the Western Sahara, and one is the EU operation Somalia-Atalanta. Currently in Afghanistan, 94 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, Kosovo in KFOR 24 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and two helicopters, the UN operations of the three listed by Lebanon, India and Pakistan, the Western Sahara there are a total of 17 members, and in EU Operation Somalia-Atalanta 14 members. The proposal for a decision for 2017 provides for the three UN operations up to 23 members in the KFOR operation in Kosovo up to 40 members of the Armed Forces in Afghanistan up to 100 members and operations of Atalanta up to 25 members. In essence, the proposal only changes in the operation of Afghanistan where the Croatian Parliament's decision is currently in force to send up to 95 members of the Armed Forces to Afghanistan, so here it is proposed that it be in the next year up to 100 members. Also in Kosovo where the Croatian Parliament's current decision can be addressed to 35 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, with up to 40 members of the Armed Forces in the proposal for 2017, while for these UN and Atalanta operations, the proposal remains the same as the current decision for these UN operations up to 23 members and for Atalanta up to 25 members. This does not mean that there will be a full number such as in the motion for a decision and is, in general, fewer members than the parliamentary decision. For all these proposals, there is also a prior consent of the President of the Republic, which is accompanied by the materials that you have received under each of these points. In particular, what should be pointed out is that for those missions, funds will be planned and secured in the state budget, i.e. in the budget of the Ministry of Defence for 2017. So I hope, as always, that we will support this decision in the Croatian Parliament and thus create the assumption that the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia continue these missions in which they are in place during 2017. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19189	I thank the Honorable State Secretary of the Department of Defence, Mr Tomislav Ivic. We have one replica. Dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19190	Thank you very much. Mr Secretary, yesterday the Defence Committee was in the Ministry of Defence, we also visited the military of Croatia, we saw the state of the armed forces, how neglected the Armed Forces are, by material technical resources and by human resources, and exclusively from financial, purely financial reasons and the reduction of defence resources. Croatian soldiers who go on missions whether they are paid and provided and secured and logistics as well as other members of NATO who, other NATO members who are in these areas on missions because the fact and we see that today is the growing interest of Croatian young men for the Croatian Army, we have absolutely no military deadline or youth knows what it means to welcome the flag, this feeling towards the homeland, at least 7 days, has certainly been neglected by the Croatian Army for the last 15 years and this was visible yesterday where the defence minister was and where he was also the prime minister with all the present authorities from the ministry and key people from the ministry along with the Chief of Staff. Surely if the Croatian soldier is not equipped, they say that and if it is not adequately rewarded, and if Croatia does not adequately exploit the fact that we are going on missions in these areas, we must really ask ourselves where we are taking this road where the Croatian Army is falling, i.e. The defence is in decline, both in material, technical resources and poor management of the former, those who have managed the Ministry of Defence so far. And the facts were yesterday seen, so yesterday a plan was presented for the development of the Armed Forces where an ambitious, one plan where the Armed Forces should return to the place where they belong for the safety of the Republic of Croatia. Here, I'm interested in what the interests are, what are the interests of Croatia that we exploit, meaning from these areas where we have our meanings for Croatian soldiers on missions. And most importantly, it means this part, which is this part of the Croatian soldier leaving for the mission whether he has the same conditions as the army from other members in the area.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19191	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Bull for his replica. Reply to the replica representative Mr Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19192	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The fact is, Mr. Representative, this time of crisis has left a strong mark on the situation in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. We are witnessing that in the last 7, 8 years, the defence ministry's budget has been reduced year by year and that this year is the lowest in the last 15 years. And the fact is that if we want the Armed Forces to be modern, well equipped, trained and guaranteed by the security of the Republic of Croatia, we're going to have to raise more money for the Ministry of Defense. And I believe that this will happen already in the 2017 budget and that the Ministry of Defence will be able to pay much more attention to the living conditions where Croatian soldiers are staying and that the material status of Croatian soldiers will also be taken into account. But what needs to be pointed out in particular is the fact that members of the Armed Forces are in various missions where they participate around the world are equipped and armed with state-of-the-art equipment and weapons and are also trained to carry out all the tasks provided for in these missions and that they are certainly ranked with all the other members involved in those missions. However, I think we can be proud of what the Croatian soldier has done over the past 20 years since he gave free Croatia and how much the Croatian military has contributed in various operations and missions.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19193	I thank Mr. Secretary of State Tomislav Ivić for his reply to the replica. We're moving on to debates. The esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac signed up on behalf of the Association of Representatives of the Living Wall for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19194	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The living wall will not support the continuation of action in Afghanistan because the action in Afghanistan is not a peace action but a military action and therefore a war situation that no longer knows the end or end. And one of these reasons why we won't support this is because it's about an action that's under the auspices of the NATO Alliance and not under the auspices of the United Nations. For the sake of short insight into the state of affairs, it is important to say that the war in Afghanistan has been going on for the 16th year in a row and that it is a war that cannot be seen as an end, because it is always on fire instead of calming down so that this action would want to suggest. In Afghanistan, the first time was the war between 1980 and 1989 when Afghanistan was occupied by Russia so that NATO forces would come to Afghanistan after that, and carry out an action to bring down the Taliban, and they will allegedly set up their government afterwards to withdraw and give power to the new government. However, we have the opportunity to see that neither the 16th consecutive puppet government set by the NATO alliance manages to maintain control of Afghanistan's territory and not only fails to maintain control but has less and less under its influence. It is clear that if the NATO alliance rises from Afghanistan, the government will fall within a month. The government forces in Afghanistan, with all the support of the United States, are only 70,000 people and the rebel forces of the falsely appointed terrorist force are actually fighters for freedom numbering 140,000 people. So they're twice as strong as the government's forces and it's clear that this government has no legitimacy, that it does not represent the will of the Afghan people or therefore it's about some kind of support for peace. It is a NATO-led strategic action against Russia aimed at stopping Russia's exit to the so-called. The warm sea, that is, on the Indian Ocean, since Russia has already gone to the Atlantic Ocean and the Pacific. There is therefore fear perhaps imaginary, perhaps justified that Russia would like to go to the Indian Ocean via Afghanistan. But most important of all, in this whole story, the Afghan people have suffered terribly, so for nearly 3 decades now, in breaking the interest of great forces, and that an countless number of people have been killed there. Only in this NATO action account for about 350,000 people together died of military conflicts, resulting from starvation, resulting from disease, injury, etc. There is a huge number of displaced people, and most importantly, perhaps for this House, it is that many of the so-called members of the so-called Parliament have died. peace missions from more than 30 countries. So the Croatian soldiers in Afghanistan are not safe. The NATO Alliance claimed, among other things, that the action in Afghanistan was final in 2014, even some solemn handover of these NATO forces, but we now see in this 2016 report that the situation has deteriorated again and that the number of troops that Croatia will send to Afghanistan needs to be increased. The Croatian public therefore has the right to know that all costs of the Croatian military mission in Afghanistan are paid by Croatian taxpayers and also has the right to know that Croatian taxpayers pay the Afghan police. So we bear the costs of foreign military forces in Afghanistan, while Croatian police officers don't know how to work for less than 4,000 kuna, so we have financial resources to pay the Afghan police. Among other things, it is important to point out that in Afghanistan, terrible war crimes have been committed by NATO forces, now turn on your phones and laptops if you don't trust me and enter NATO only War Crimes Afghanistan and you will see images of which will make your mind stop, where NATO forces bombed hospitals, where NATO forces have killed tens and hundreds of children, where the entire international community condemns these crimes and you will not if we participate in that military action that blood falls on our hands. So it's not a peace mission, it's a U.S. military action aimed at their own strategic interests. After 16 years of this action and thus the prospect that it is a permanent state that the Croatian army will be permanently engaged in Afghanistan without any results and with the danger of Croatian soldiers losing their heads, because if I see on this list that the Albanians, and Montenegrins, and Koreans are already dead, it is only a matter of time before they arrive from Afghanistan with Croatian soldiers. Therefore, these actions, which are under the auspices of the UN and which really contribute to the retirement process, such as this. the case in Kosovo such actions the Croatian Parliament can support but thus unite the debate and plant us a coward's egg so that the Croatian military participates in the war in Afghanistan and not in the peace mission. It is not correct and we needed to inform the Croatian public exactly what it was about. Therefore, the Living Wall gives support to the Afghan people that finally after a decade of suffering is free from foreign influences and that it solves its own destiny, and I don't think we should support one government that doesn't have any legitimacy, just as I believe none of you would agree to rule Croatia with the help of the American Army. It is time for all foreign armies to withdraw from Afghanistan and simply allow that nation to have its own freedom and sovereignty. I also want to add one more thing here because I already know what's going to replicate to me from HDZ that Afghans are terrorists who are attacking the United States. It would, it would simply be a notorious lie that Afghanistan, which is a super-poverty country, would have the capacity of military and economic to attack the United States. It would be about the same as if we were hoping now I don't know that the Chucher football club could win Barcelona at... The camp and let's say you know, that's possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Theoretically anything is possible, it's theoretically possible that we could fly to Mars. But we know very well that in practice this is impossible and that it is only cheap propaganda in order to calm the public and to carry out an action that actually serves only to obey the peoples in the service of conquering resources and preparing further imperialist actions do not give God the Third World War. For this reason, we believe that Croatia should not support military action in Afghanistan, but simply that all our soldiers as well as the resources from Afghanistan should be permanently and unequivocally withdrawn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19195	I thank my esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjc for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a respected counterpart, Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19196	Thank you very much, Vice President. I would like to tell my colleagues to Bunjc that the Croatian soldier is not an aggressor in Afghanistan and that the Croatian military mission is not there to pursue other people's interests. The Croatian soldier is in an operation to train Afghan security forces that should finally bring peace and stability to Afghanistan and its people. Yes, we can find on the Internet that there have been some mistakes in NATO and that civilians have been killed. Whether it was deliberate action aimed at killing civilians or a serious military error will show investigations, and we also have an International Criminal Court that can discuss it. But also on the internet, or any other person who is directed will know very well that Afghan people do not suffer under NATO's boot, but suffers primarily under the boot of drug traffickers who use Afghan macaque fields to produce the world's largest supplies, but the quantities of heroin and other drugs they then refer to the market of Europe, America and the Croatian market, which is certainly one threat and not a welcome act. Every person knows that the radical regime of the Taliban, the Taliban religiously, is causing severe suffering to the civilian population and ordinary citizens. Any attempt to counter it is rooted together in the most brutal possible physical way. Therefore, to bring freedom, peace, security, the right to determine the Afghan people themselves, to help him in this struggle is certainly not a bad mission, but a good mission. At the same time try to stabilise those areas of the world from which instability comes and towards Croatia is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19197	I thank my esteemed colleague, Joschko Klisovic, for the replica. Replication response. Dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19198	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You've found a nice choice for your colleague Klisovic. Namely, we fight drugs there, but the world's largest drug manufacturer and drug user are the United States. If you don't know how to contact the Department of Health, you'll see that out of the 300 new drugs that have appeared in the last 10 years all 300 have come from the United States. Not one drug comes from the east, but all drugs mostly, and also smuggling routes come from the west. Therefore, if you already think military action should stop drug trafficking and its production, then the Croatian military mission should also act without knowing in New York or, say, California. Because I guarantee you there's more drugs and more junkies out there, far more than in Afghanistan. From what I've heard in Afghanistan, there are no drug addicts, and I don't think their faith would allow them, so I don't know, so you're trying to find reasons, so you're supporting your pro-American attitude. But then we're going to go say humanity, so if you want Christian mercy, they won't allow the Croatian armies to participate in something that every normal man in this world should be ashamed of after 16 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19199	I would like to thank you for your response to the replica of the esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjc. The next call came from an esteemed colleague of professors. Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19200	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. If we want to talk seriously, then we simply need to or should not disqualify the basic facts and data. The Croatian Parliament here decides whether members of the Armed Forces will participate in non-combat actions, not in combat actions. You've been saying all along they're combat actions in which members of the Armed Forces participate. It's simply a falsification of the motion for a decision that we're going to plead today. On the other hand, you yourself brought out that information, I'm not going into whether it's true or not, but that the government forces in Afghanistan have 70,000 and the non-governmental opposition forces are 140,000 people. If it were the logic of this which you advocate, then it means that everyone should distance themselves from Afghanistan, isolate that area and wait for anyone to survive and then continue to communicate or cooperate with Afghanistan. Therefore, regardless of how anyone interprets there is a certain responsibility to avoid armed conflict to avoid war victims in order to reach a political solution and stabilise the situation in Afghanistan. And as for when you're giving a grade, then you have to give a full assessment and that the first forces that were there were Russian forces before, or the Soviet Union, so they also retired for a certain period of time if they were unable to solve the problem of this permanent conflict that is going on in Afghanistan. And that is why it is important, in my opinion, that this engagement of the international community not be a military solution but rather a political solution to the conflict in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19201	I thank my esteemed colleague Professor Miroslav Tudjman for his replica. The reply to the replica of the esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19202	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleague. So you have claimed that there is a need to maintain peace there in order not to be a war, but the presence of military forces in Afghanistan encourages war. If the military forces had retired from Afghanistan in 2003 or 2004, I guarantee you that there would be peace there today and that there would be a country with which we could maintain bilateral relations. A classic example of history is that of this conflict in Vietnam where it has been repeatedly claimed that the presence of the American army protects peace, but it turned out the same after 10 to 12 years of blood war that the only reasonable solution was the withdrawal of the American army. And, of course, the Americans failed in Vietnam the same thing that the French had tried before and failed to do the same thing that the Japanese tried, so most honestly of all, that foreign armies would withdraw from a country where, on such a long time, they were unable to achieve a pension solution because it was obvious that the Afghan people did not want a foreign army on their territory. If he wanted her, he'd have already supported her, accepted her, and the war would have ended long ago. This report clearly states that the situation has deteriorated and clearly states that the elements of ISIL are now coming to Afghanistan and now you tell us in what way we can be sure that Croatian soldiers will not be found in the field of combat action and that they are safe there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19203	I thank my esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjc for his reply to the replica. The following link was reported by distinguished counterpart Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19204	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, counterpart Bunjac is a terrible condemnation that Croatian forces are participating in the war in Afghanistan. Your performance today has caused me the astonishment that you have not read at all the act that has been submitted to you and that you have not seen that they are part of a non-combat mission in Afghanistan and that they are advisers, that they are assistance and that they are training with Afghan national forces. Your desire to show how the Afghan people suffers makes me think that you've been running aside from the Taliban, the smugglers, so I can compare it like your colleague who sided with the Serb aggressor army somewhere before, as well as you protect criminals, smugglers, terrorists. It's just as if you said that those who had the desire to become a great Serbia on the territory of the Republic of Croatia who were tearing down the logs that you had stepped into their protection. This finding is your one cocoa that your club representatives are equally thinking about how all those who attacked Croatia are actually right. The same way you talk about Afghan rebels, i.e. Taliban, drug traffickers that they're Afghan people, which is actually not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19205	I thank my esteemed colleague Djakic for his replica. The reply to the replica of the esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19206	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must confess to my colleague Djakic that it is very difficult to follow your course of thought. You mix pears and apples, but basically you provide partial information. Namely, you have now claimed here that the rebels against NATO are Taliban forces. The Taliban makes up one smaller group within the rebel army that exists 5 to 6 means in Afghanistan there are a whole series of armed formations that are at war against NATO alliances, and the Taliban are only one smaller group that represents a minority in the resistance movement itself. This story of how the Taliban and the Afghans are and perhaps all Muslim terrorists simply don't drink water after all this time, because it's quite clear that the world's largest terrorist is the United States, which is currently harassing 10 states starting with Libya, Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan, Ukraine, etc., that they simply, look at the schedule of NATO bases around the world so you'll see clearly that it's a crawling occupation that doesn't essentially bring peace somewhere but brings hundreds of thousands and millions of victims. And if you have any honor and honesty, then you should say that the time has finally come for Croatia to take a stand of permanent neutrality on this issue. It means neither east nor west but simply to protect our own national interests and promote in the world a policy of peaceful cooperation and co-existence for the benefit of all people of this world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19207	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjc, for his reply to the replica. The following has been signed up for debate on behalf of the applicant, the Honorable State Secretary of the Ministry of Defence, Mr Tomislav Ivic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19208	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I've got a few things to say after this presentation of the distinguished parliamentary representative. Of course, it's not about any war or combat operation. The armed forces of the Republic of Croatia have a fundamental task in Afghanistan to train counselling and assist Afghanistan's national, defence and security forces. And the armed forces of the Republic of Afghanistan have never participated in combat operations. The fact is that there were certain extreme situations in Afghanistan but the Armed Forces did not participate in any combat operations in Afghanistan. It is also important to know that this operation is under the auspices of the NATO Alliance, that the NATO Alliance is conducting this operation. But the basis for carrying out this operation is the UN Security Council's decision of 14 December 2014 unanimously accepted that gives NATO's mandate to the Alliance to carry out this pension operation. This is the second phase of the operation in Afghanistan, the first was ISAF, since 1 January 2015 is the Resolution Support operation which primarily refers to training, counselling, mentoring and training of members of the Afghan National Forces. What is particularly important is the fact that in the past few years it has been important to reduce the number of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia participating in these operations, that this was previously up to 350 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. We see that the proposal is to make it up to 100 members in the next year. So certain shifts in the stabilisation of the situation in Afghanistan have been made quite a bit. But the fact is that there has been some deterioration and no one is slowing down, as you yourself have said and stated in this material. Of course there is no 100% safety, each of our members of the Armed Forces who participates in any operation, in any part of the world is of course at risk, but the Croatian soldier must be well trained, ready, well dressed to reduce these risks to the least possible measure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19209	I thank the motionary representative, Mr Tomislav Ivić, for this word. Replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19210	Mr. Ivic, you have told the facts, but here it is mentioned in the context of Mr. Bunjc's debate and means the material status of Croatian police officers that we pay theirs, means police officers. And the fact is that we need to seriously consider that a Croatian professional soldier can't be a professional soldier with four thousand kunas or up to five thousand kunas. The fact that we do not use the infrastructure well for the Croatian army that we have, which is the military that has been abandoned, which has been restored, so from the Knin to Dubrovnik area, to Prevlaka we absolutely do not have the land armies and this is the most vulnerable and most important Croatian border in these crises that are ahead of us and behind us, which is a refugee crisis and many other dangers. Therefore, the Croatian soldier, indeed to have a young man must then have an interest because many young people, I know, from the system, are leaving the Croatian Army because with 4 thousand, 5 thousand kuna we do not have a professional soldier and we need to work on it and we need to build a Croatian army on that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19211	I thank my esteemed colleague, Miri Bulju, for the replica. The answer, no, thank you very much. The next meeting was held on behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives by distinguished counterpart Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19212	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State. The SDP Club will support all proposed laws on the continuation of the participation of the Republic of Croatia and our Armed Forces in peacekeeping missions and operations. That's what we do for a reason because we think that security is not God's day, never and never anyone. If it was, thank God it would be great. And unfortunately for God's sake, we have to take care of her ourselves. If we don't take care of her ourselves, then we remember what can happen and it happened in Croatia in the early '90s, don't let God do it again. In order to ensure for themselves and their citizens security, peace, they do so by investing in national capacities, the security system, not only the military and beyond, by joining each other in alliances, helping each other to achieve security. And even if there is one system of values in these alliances that you share, I think you're on a good path to ensure your country's development, and we know that security is a fundamental assumption of any development, not just economic and social development. We're teaming up with international organisations, all countries aren't as powerful, equally strong, they don't have equal capacities. But Croatia, in accordance with its capacities, has been a very prominent member of the international community and has made a major contribution so far to almost all international organisations in the field of maintaining international peace and security. In doing so, we have used our experience as host countries of UN peace operations primarily as countries that have passed war catharsis and have built their institutions and their society again. Therefore, we use these experiences in building democratic institutions after the conflict today, and today we are also taking part in different forms and types of peacekeeping missions and operations, and they are not always military. There are police officers involved, there are civil servants, diplomats and others, as well as civil society who share our experiences. But we must make a contribution to international peace and security not because of someone else, but because of ourselves. In doing so, we must build an image of a reliable partner, a partner who can be counted on as we were looking for 91 partners in the international community when we were left alone to worry. Such a situation should be avoided in the future by our actions based on our experience. And threats come from everywhere and the most devastating thing a country can do to wait for war or threats to begin on its own state territory. Sources of instability should be put out where they appear in the world either in Afghanistan, whether in Somalia, or in Kosovo, or anywhere where the state government does not function because unfortunately due to internal internal political problems, there has been a breakdown of the state we call Failed State. And the threats are coming and they're like I said asymmetric, they can be armed, but they don't have to be. The threats to our national security are also the smuggling of weapons of a particularly sophisticated, nuclear weapons component, biological or chemical, smuggling of people, all this can have an impact on the safety of the Republic of Croatia and Croatia must be and must contribute, must be part of these international efforts to stabilise all sources of uncertainty of international peace and stability. The debate we had here today in the assembly pointed to one element that I would ask that the Ministry of Defence in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs always bear in mind and to include it in the bill's proposal in the part concerning the reasons which is that every peace operation and any proposal that Croatia is involved in a peace operation or mission must have a clearly established foreign policy context and goal that Croatia wants to achieve. In this way, we will avoid debates, empty debates about what Croatia is doing in a country and clearly define the interests of the Republic of Croatia. We know that our soldiers, even if you're in an ordinary operation, are certainly not on vacation and that their lives are at risk in such an unstable state. But these are professional soldiers who have accepted the risks that go along with the profession as their call, and we are tasked with ensuring that they have maximum conditions to perform their duties honorably and professionally. If, in addition to the Ministry of Defence's proposals on participation in peacekeeping missions and operations, foreign policy objectives and context, then perhaps we would not have had this situation if we were scattered around the world with several soldiers in various operations. It may be necessary to consider a comprehensive peace operation strategy and participate in those of particular interest for Croatia where the sources of instability that can have a direct impact on Croatia are particularly stabilised. To do this together, we must ensure the full conditions of life and work, training and equipment for the Croatian army. So one stable budget that monitors the long-term planning of the development of the Armed Forces is crucial that the Croatian military fully achieves its constitutional role in full terms, and its constitutional role is not only to give a ceremony to the state summit when foreign delegations come, it is not to participate in a ceremony to mark significant Croatian state holidays and it is not only to assist civil institutions in natural disasters such as fires or floods. Its constitutional function is to defend our country's territorial integrity and sovereignty. In order for it to be able in today’s home of the 21st century, it must have sophisticated equipment, and it must have training on sophisticated equipment. These people have to be able to respond to the threats of today's moment and we Parliamentarians, the government, have to provide them with conditions for such a thing. So it can't happen that the Department of Defense doesn't have enough money to pay the VAT on donations that we get from Allied armies and it's about sophisticated equipment, that they don't have the ability to pay the VAT on kerosene so our planes can fly. So it's no longer the responsibility of the armed forces, it's no longer the responsibility of the military, it's the responsibility of politics, and we have to make a contribution there. And that is why I hope that also in the new draft budget for next year, the Ministry of Defence, or Armed Forces, will be recognised as an important component of the Croatian state which must be allowed to carry out its constitutional task. Otherwise, not the Armed Forces, but politics will seriously fail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19213	I thank my esteemed colleague, Joschko Klisovic, for this debate. We have one replica after this discussion of the distinguished colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19214	Thank you, Chairman. My colleague Klisovic, I must oppose your presentation in the part where you say Croatia must be. Why do you think Croatia must be when it has proved throughout history that some alliances in which Croatia joined were not alliances where Croatia would be equal, but were alliances in which Croatia was subjugated and in which Croatia ended up taking away sovereignty and freedom. Now, after the break, you will go outside the statue of Ante Starčević, who was told all along that Croatia was too small to live without the framework of Austro-Hungarian, without the alliance with the Germans and Hungarians, and he said let Croatia be as small as seen from the Zagreb cathedral. But only to be independent and sovereign, the Croatian people will know how to take care of themselves. Also, you are so much in favour of this EU. Here I will quote to you Stjepan Radic whose statue you can also see in the assembly. He said this in 1924. Europe can't help us, and it won't help us, and we don't ask it, and we don't need it, because it's hard for a man who's waiting from someone else's bread bag. So, here's to not saying that I've just invented it, that's what Stjepan Radić told you, so think about whose interest you're working in and whether you really want this people to do well or to continue with the policy of Hungarianism, Yugoslavia and I don't know who didn't want to do everything in Croatian territory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19215	I thank you for the replica of the esteemed colleague of Bunjc. Replication response, esteemed colleague Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19216	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear colleague, you know if Croatia could secure its own security with its capacities I'd be extremely happy and that would be the best variant. If you can't do that, you have to look at how you can do it. Yesterday I asked the question when we discussed Montenegro's entry into NATO you were no longer here, whether the aggression against the Republic of Croatia would be in '91. the year happened that at that time Croatia was a NATO member or would not. Would Croatia have suffered so much in the early 1990s if we had been a NATO member. Would they be so destroyed? Would so many of our citizens be killed manly or wouldn't they? Therefore, if you want to realize your interests and watch what capacities you have available, if you are not enough to watch how you can fill them with what is available to you and then act. When you become part of an organization, one alliance with which you can achieve your interests, then you must fight an active member of that alliance and contribute to its activities wherever they happen, so as not to repeat what we experienced in the early 1990s. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19217	I thank my esteemed colleague, Josko Klisovic, for his reply to the replica. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I'd like to ask you for peace in the assembly so we can discuss this without a problem. The following came to the debate on behalf of Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club, a respected counterpart, Petar Skoric, reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19218	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretary, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here's since there's a lot that's been crystallized through the debate that I've been planning to talk about, so that's all I'm going to say. As for Afghanistan, therefore, it has been confirmed by the correct decision on the participation of our members in the support mission and therefore there has been an increase from 70 to 95 members of the Armed Forces with the possibility of rotation. As regards the support of NATO member states and their summits, a declaration has therefore been adopted to continue with further support in Afghanistan. In this sense, the role of our forces is noted that it is primarily advised to protect advisory teams and camps. And with that decision, the structures of the Croatian contingent will remain within the existing frameworks. As regards the UN peacekeeping mission, Croatia also plans to maintain its presence and visibility in that part of the UN, which only confirms the position of a responsible member of the International Community ready for proactive engagement with a view to achieving global security. And just by retaining participation in the number size of 23 members in the following year in three missions, our country is making a significant contribution to the United Nations in the area of stabilisation, building security in line with the already demonstrated commitment of our country to these objectives in direct contribution to further implementation of our share in building international security. So, I note that this is also about support, peace operations. So, in Lebanon 5 members, in Sahara 8, and in India and Pakistan up to 10. About Kosovo. We all know the situation in this area, and we know that it is an operation under the mandate of the Security Council Resolution of '99. A year. The role of our members is very important here. Our 22nd contingent is therefore deployed and consists of 22 members. There will be a change now, so the arrival of the twenty-third. In this area, we are also focused on carrying out the tasks of air transport and work at the headquarters itself. In this part, we support NATO's strong efforts to maintain security in Kosovo. Since Croatia has the required capabilities and given the situation, there is therefore an additional 5 members. And we agree and propose to support it and send a total of 40 members to the operation in Kosovo next year. I would finally mention here that the engagement and image of our members in all peace operations is highly appreciated throughout the world, however little is known in the local public. Here, after yesterday's visit to the armed forces and to the Ministry of Defence, let me also say that we are recording a significant decline in the standard of living and working conditions for members of the armed forces over the past years due to the constant reduction in the budget, which, unfortunately, is being spoken of in the public, and this multi-annual rationalisation and reduction of the defence budget left a profound mark on what is reflected and on the reduced interest in the work of our citizens in the armed forces. So unfortunately, what I heard yesterday from members of the armed forces that our members have better working conditions in certain peacekeeping missions than in the military in their own country. As a result, we believe that the defence system can no longer endure and wait for better days so that I hope there will be a way to improve their status and position in the country, and given all these proposals, the HDZ Club will support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19219	I thank my esteemed colleague, Peter Škorić, for this debate. Since we no longer have replicas on this debate, I am concluding a debate on these points of the agenda to the united. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we will now approach the vote on the debated points.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19220	The next item is the proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in a mission to support peace, resolution support in Afghanistan. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I stress that Article 7(6) The Republic of Croatia states that the decision requires a majority of the votes of all MPs, 76 votes. I am voting on a proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in a mission to support peace, a resolution of support in Afghanistan. Please engage, let's vote. The vote is over. I find most of the 103, 5 abstentions and 3 against the decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the mission to support peace, resolution support in Afghanistan. The next item is the Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr. Zarko Tušek to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19324	At the 5th session held on 6 November 2016, the President of the Croatian Parliament of the Court of Justice of Vukovar addressed the request of the Municipal Court in Vukovar to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation to conduct criminal proceedings against Steve Culei in the Croatian Parliament for criminal offences against public order, causing the riots referred to in Articles 324(1) and 2. Penalty law. Stevo Culej is a representative of 9 convocations of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have immunity until the term of office is terminated, and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against it cannot be initiated, nor a criminal procedure can be conducted. The Commission shall be responsible for the implementation of this Regulation and shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously with 5 votes to propose a decision to the Croatian Parliament: The criminal proceedings against counsel Steve Culei shall be approved at the request of the Municipal Court in Vukovar for the criminal offence against public order and the causing of the riots referred to in Articles 324(1) and 2. Penalty law. The mandate-immunity commission in its work shall continue to hold its busy principle position that in cases where a request for the initiation and conduct of a criminal proceedings is submitted by the State Attorney's Office or the Court of Justice, authorisation should be granted in order to enable them to carry out their duties in a smooth and independent manner, based on the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, in their jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19325	I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. Excuse me, Agent Culey. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19326	How can I not speak in my defense, Your Honor? Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will first ask you to vote, to be together in this effort to bring one crime to justice, so vote to take immunity from me because it is my personal desire to prove not only my innocence, but also 38 other cases of Croatian defenders against whom at this time are being conducted in the city of Vukovar. I have to start from somewhere, and I'm going to start from this last exhibition 25 years from the occupation of Vukovar, which is the synonym of evil and the destruction of Vukovar, which happened both in Vukovar and its citizens. And I, who also participated in all these events, and so did the previous government in counter-constitutional attempts to place Cyrillic plates and layouts, so in Vukovar, therefore under the conductor's stick Zoran Milanović, Arsena Bauk, Ranko Ostojić and others with your all-out help, some of which, of course, you caused one inconsistencies in otherwise peaceful Vukovar, where we all put very great efforts in order for this co-existence to live for a long time and not only if necessary by certain current authorities and use of how Vukovar, how his names and his inhabitants in political struggle. I also have to tell you that I am unfoundedly accused in a political persecution, a mounted process in the style of some past bad times, where in the same way as 38 of my friends from Vukovar, and also of me in a way that is discredited, to mark us as those who are plagued by riots, as those who are problems in our society, as those who need to be processed and therefore punished so that even after these judgments, we cannot act in both political and other lives in our Croatia. So it is one form of struggle, a special form of struggle that continues against Croatian defenders. We know well that during the Homeland War some who only called themselves Croats after being born in these places were only called Croats, and otherwise all other actions were of course directed against the fight in the Homeland War, against Croatian defenders, and whose results we see today, where we see special forms of fighting against Croatian defenders through our General Damir Krstic, our friends in Herceg Bosni from General Praljak, President of Tudjman, General Bobetko, all the charges that burden us and persecution to deal with the last obstacle that stands between the authorities of the Croatian people and themselves. We're the only ones who can never surrender, because we're not a flesh wound or a laurel branch that's going to anoint someone. I want to say anti-constitutional plates in Vukovar. When there are 11 registered citizens at only one address in Vukovar, there is no foundation there. Of the 11 people registered in Serbia in prisons for the most serious forms of war crimes committed in Ovcara, four of them are among the four. These six aren't available, and one of them probably lost the same trail somewhere long ago. What was happening in Vukovar from night to night under the protection of the police who were hiding with the vans as they passed the columns in Vukovar. What caused all the divisions in Vukovar from a double column, the division in our people, is what someone organized chaos carried out over the Croatian defenders of Vukovar. There are criminal charges against Milanovic, according to others and Ranko Ostojic, and all on the case, Savados and Pajcic, the deceased Croatian defender who is literally tired in front of the police station. What about other cases that happened in Croatia's Vukovar? What kind of Vukovar city is a hero to whom every year we all go to worship in a warm way just because of the diaries, of course, and some from the pitets towards the town of the victim who is persecuting the father of two tired Croatian young men, Father Zivkovic, who has not yet found one of his son today. How does it tell us when our prime minister speaks of him, of course, of course, of Mr. Milanovic as an old fakin, to a man who gave two sons. I'm looking at your smiles and contempt, but I'm going to make it through. I've got a few minutes left. I mean to tell you, all the ideologies here every day in this House and the divisions in our society are suffering certain on our backs that deeply touch and hurt, and so are all those 11 thousand who because of my righteous resistance are one of the horrors that voted for me and brought me here to the Croatian Parliament to speak for them in the way they think, in a way that they have a chance to speak their own voice. At the moment of the 38 plus 1 process being conducted in the Croatian judiciary against us in Vukovar because of Cyrillic plates which were only the aim of the division of the Croatian people in Vukovar at the moment gave in Vukovar investigations for all those crimes that were shown in this last exhibition 25 years from Vukovar. For all those crimes committed in Vukovar, what does the Croatian police do, what does the DORH do, what do judges do? The judges we inherited from some of the past times who witnessed murders, murders, and I don't know what they didn't process in any way. The police that we inherited from various agreements without any verification and today rapists in Croatia are working in the Croatian Podunavlje that a woman who comes to the police to recognize her rapist recognizes him on the street. Not to mention all the other crimes that are witnessed by individuals from Vukovar citizens about the people who took their loved ones so that these processes may not be conducted at all until the day of today. What are you waiting for? That these people live witnesses die. When I only remember that Radenko Alavava, the head of the territorial defence of Borov Sela, was released for lack of evidence, and only at school in one night, 35 Croatian and citizen citizens were tired, taken by foot to half of the Danube and thrown into the Danube queen. What's the DORH doing on all these occasions? How is it possible that a three-year-old judge condemns a man who, on his Sundays, caused the death of 12 directors in Borovo Selo? How is this possible in modern Croatia? As far as possible, I'm asking you gentlemen MPs. I see that I will have a great opportunity to answer you, so I will end up on this, on behalf of the city of Vukovar, on behalf of the Croatian defenders on behalf of all victims, remove all bilingual two-letter writing boards set up in Vukovar because they have been placed in violation of constitutional, legislative, sacrificial and moral principles, and have not obtained the conditions for implementing this law, from all of this I have just mentioned to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19327	Thank you, Agent Cule. On behalf of the Rules of Procedure, Representative Bauk reported.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19328	Mr. President, Article 232 has been injured. A Rules of Procedure that talks about the subject. I think you should have warned Mr. Culey that he's holding on to the subject, and the topic is to remove immunity because of a particular case, not because of the general circumstances in which the case took place. We could have a special discussion about this. We'd have something to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19329	Thank you. According to my personal assessment, he hasn't made a significant distance from the subject, so he's attached to what's going to make him vote in the first place on the abolition of immunity. What I would just like to ask, I would like to ask that, in the follow-up of the debate, we are proudly acting on the duty of parliamentary representatives, and I think we can discuss some things more soberly and normally than in previous years. The representative who first reported for the replica is representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19330	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, the debates of Steve Culei in this House wouldn't actually deserve any replica, so they should be ignored because everything he says actually speaks in a way that upsets impatience in Croatian society. But what he said today must have been said twice, and I have to react, since I was a member of the government of Zoran Milanovic, so the government of Zoran Milanovic, and especially the members of that government named Arsen Bauk and Ranko Ostojić, did nothing against the constitution in Vukovar, but did exactly what was done in accordance with the law and decisions of the City Council of Vukovar, which were made among other things in collaboration with HDZ. So I'd like to ask Mr. Culey not to defend his crime by attacking everyone else unfounded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19331	Thank you, Agent Jovanovic. Agent Culey's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19332	My crime has been described in the 180 pages of this file of 17 witnesses in which one of the witnesses is the commander of the special police Vukovar-Srijem, and the other is the chief of police of Vukovar-Srijemska and will be seen in court to see the decision of that same court on the testimony of the said two. All others are Croatian defenders who are also unjustly, unjustly, immorally extremely lowly accused of misdemeanors that can only be attributed to the greatest villains. ... [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19333	I'm asking the MPs to refrain from commenting until they have no right to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19334	May I? Whenever anyone in Croatia says something that does not correspond to a particular gentleman, it is called hate speech. I personally call it a speech of truth, a speech of justice, or at least a wish for that same justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19335	Thank you. The next representative to report for the replica is Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19336	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Today is November 25th 2016, and the government of Tihomir Oreskovica was entrusted with it in Parliament on 22 January 2016, so 10 months and 3 days ago. So for 10 months and 3 days, it is no longer a government, and some institutions in Vukovar still have bilingual legal panels that you claim to have been placed unconstitutional and illegal, so be faces and take them off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19337	Thank you, Agent Bauku. Replication response, Agent Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19338	I proved my face in the Homeland War on the battlefields from Vukovar to Dubrovnik and with the 9 medals I received from the late president and I no longer need to prove face. The Cyrillic plates will be removed of course when adequate conditions are obtained which we in this Croatian Assembly hope to implement. And also, Mr. Bauk and you should be great, so stand behind your actions and try to get that part of the board back again at least on your own like we did in Vukovar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19339	Thank you, Agent Cule. Representative Miro Bulj has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19340	Thank you very much. Mr. Culey Vukovar is a hero city, Vukovar is the place of a special pie. Everything that has happened since Vukovar since the adoption of the law on bilingualism in such a place after a short period of time where people from these parts who have defended Vukovar, not only the citizens of Vukovar, but also my Sinjani Ivica Poljak Sokol and Andrija Alcic have left great pain. And indeed these families should not have suffered this terror in such fresh wounds and many people, many families, did not find their sons, their children, and many are not known today. Indeed, from this time interval since the Homeland War, it is saddened that Vukovar is moving through this way, that political elites have passed laws, we remember the HDZ Government passed the Bilingualism Act and what was implemented in Vukovar. But it really does not contribute to the participation of Serbs and Croats in the Vukovar area, it is shared by the people and certainly to the honorable people of Serbs who defended the Republic of Croatia and Vukovar does not bring it anything. There are wounds that should not be opened and exclusively by all authorities to create divisions, to build their political careers on ideological divisions, on the victims of Vukovar, and to survive on the political market. And it's really embarrassing that there were wounds in Vukovar that opened up like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19341	Thank you, Agent Buljo. Representative Nenad Stazic, reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19342	The bilingual panels that are based on the Constitution and the law set up in Vukovar and which you vandally broke are still there, there are, on these same buildings and I don't know why you are talking to Milanović, Jovanovic, Ostojić, Bauku when you have Plenkovic, why don't you yell at him? ... You have Mr. Petrov, why don't you call him? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I wonder if Bull will vote to take off your immunity when he's so keenly defending you. If you think that's wrong, that law is wrong, so you ask those who put you on the list and why you're here in the House to change that law. You're asking the MOST to break up cooperation with HDZ if it doesn't agree with you, if you have these loops.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19343	Thank you, Agent Stazic. Replication response, Agent Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19344	You're talking about some future times that are yet to happen and my case comes from a close past of your government, that's the difference. And I'm talking to you here for this reason to point out that immorality and the illogicalness of the sequence that you've just spent with a particular intention to cause chaos in the city of Vukovar. That's the thing. And what's about to happen, we'll just vote. And I know why I'm in this Croatian Assembly just like you know why you're on behalf of what and who.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19345	Thank you, Agent Cule. Representative Marija Jelkovac responded for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19346	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Culey, I understand absolutely everything you've been talking about. And what I have to say is, I'm sorry that in the city of Vukovar, there was really no feeling in the city for a moment. In fact, there was a force to respond. Because we can really say that until all the wounds of those who suffered in Vukovar were healed, it wasn't the time to set up bilingual plates. In Vukovar, criminals are still walking and those who are victims of these criminals have to watch it. I think this reaction was actually a reaction to injustice. And I believe colleague Culey that you will defend yourself before the institutions of this country and that what you have done has actually been a reaction not to something that has been filed under the law but in fact the question is how many Serbians are in Vukovar and whether these data that have been processed are accurate and whether there really were conditions that were prescribed in the law for bilingual panels to be placed. I believe that all Croatian defenders against whom the indictments are being prosecuted will prove their innocence and that the story will soon end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19347	Replication response, Agent Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19348	Thank you, dear colleague, for what happened in Vukovar, that act, it was only the last cry of the Vukovars for justice, the final warning to all of us in this society that the victim cannot be trampled against the wall forever and that there is no other way and way to defend himself but in the only yet somewhat permitted way. Anything else that came out of a protest against Cyrillic plates came out of the moment, came out of the abuse of police and the way police work and the activities of the police themselves in Vukovar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19349	Thank you, Agent Cule. Representative Glasovic reported for participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19350	President-in-Office of the Parliament, the key question is who in common sense who thinks logically and generally thinks about establishing Cyrillic plates in Vukovar. The city, that's a key question, a city that was destroyed, killed thousands of people, where what happened 45 years in April happened again, this time it happened under one symbol the first 45th, I would pray a little when we discuss jokes you're talking, I know you're not interested, they took off the 45th Kocarda and put on a five-pointer, this last one... and this five-pointer and put on a cocarda. To whom he understands in common, who has made the decision to place Cyrillic plates when 95% of the victims in this war on Croatian territory, in BIH all the way down to Kosovo have committed great Serbian imperialism, what is under five-pointed, and thousands of missing are still wanted. Some are... and we have a man here, we wouldn't be sitting here eating lunch for 20 kuna if he didn't have a head like Mr. Culey here, etc. The brain must stop. Who speaks here at all, because this taboo topic is now to talk about the thousands of missing people we need to find, because the taboo theme to talk about war damage... which is $34 billion and you gentlemen have paid only, you have now launched a process at the International Court of Justice in Geneva to pay off the Chetniks of pensions that have destroyed this country here and occupied almost a third of Croatian territory. Is that treason and treason? Third, back to the archives from Belgrade, the entire state's waterfront is down, what are we doing? We shut up, we take off our underpants to everyone, we bow down to the clerks here, to foreign officials, rather than to arrange our own house. A double standard, he would say, more recently on the TV Adriatic, was yours never been or will be, which exalts the five-point symbol under which it was killed from 1918 to the end of this century by 110 million people. It's full of Croatians, it's full of suitcases of your ideology, your five-pointers that cut into that cortex, you've executed genocide, democracy, class genocide over the Croatian people. ... I'm just gonna get this over with. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] You have here in the City of Zagreb the street of the government of Ranogajci, the judge who condemned people, the three led, the head of OZNA.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19351	I would ask you to stick to the context and the subject itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19352	That's the darkness. They are disturbed by Stevo Culej and do not mind OZNA, Aleksandar Rankovic, who now has the memory of the record here and the square of the bloody locksmith, the 10th largest mass murderer. And you speak of catharsis, of reconciliation, of the truth shame upon you, come out of this place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19353	Representative Glasovic finished the topic. I would really beg, I think the last 15 minutes of the debate have shown that it can be debated and not only provoke but also insult. I would pray really if we stick to the topic that then we can both talk normally and about topics like this that are really painful. They should be discussed but not in a way that offends. And the truth can always be expressed and not in such a way. The first representative to report for the replica to be presented by MP Glasnovic is MP Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19354	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's a colleague of Glasnovic's, in one of the first sentences of your presentation, you asked the question of who did it even occur to? It came to mind HDZ on 14 July 2009. That's the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19355	I'd like to thank Agent Bauk. Reply to the replica, MP Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19356	I don't care who thought of it, but decisions that aren't reasonable and logical can always be annulled. And that's common sense. There's an open wound up there that you're putting on Band-Aids that won't fix it. And without truth and justice, we have no democracy, we have a court and democracy in which we now live and a metal state from the former system.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19357	I thank Representative Glasnović. Representative Darko Paric reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19358	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's to repeating the material, so in 2009, HDZ in the City of Vukovar, along with the others, made such a decision to both colleagues. But what's fascinating to me is the fascinating hypocrisy of HDZ, what's perfectly fascinating. HDZ has made a decision that these panels should be there, the SDP is a decision that HDZ has made. And my colleague Culey, at that moment, you acted beyond the law that your party had passed before that. That's really fascinating. What's even more fascinating about it is that you're playing heroes here, you're a particularly big hero who's been rebelling against it all, so for a year you've had power in this country for, like, a year you haven't taken off those records, still standing there for a year, 365 days. You're selling us fog here, so go take off the plates, but no. You know why you don't take it off, as you say, we wait for the conditions to come, because you're aware that those panels are there by law, and that's why you wait for the terms to come out, so you're hypocritical and you're arguing with this people, you're having a bad fight with this people, and you're poisoning this people. There was a thematic session on violence against journalists just now. And these discussions of this kind bring just about everything. That's not how you run a state, that's not how you talk in the Parliament, there's laws in the Parliament, laws are passed in the Parliament. If you want to take down the records like someone here said, be a face and bring the law and take them down and don't lie to us or to this people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19359	Thank you, Agent Paric. Reply to the replica, MP Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19360	Pruki pulsism. Why are we where we are? Pruki pulsism.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19361	Please!
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19362	Spike doesn't cook rice, I'd say are you talking to me or Mr. Cule? I'm not in HDZ. I think you should tell the truth. If you advocate minority rights as much as you do for Croats outside, and we pay 55,000 pensions for people in Serbia. And if you cared so much about the Croats in Subotica, Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc., if you cared so much about Croats outside the country that people came here, and you only have 115 000 Croats in Canada. Who's stopping them from coming here? They're being prevented by socialist laws, a mental set. You've been hiding Croatian housewives in offices, consulates because you're afraid of these people coming here because you've made a front of the state and you've got a monopoly. You have no monopoly on the Croatian people. You did, that's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19363	Representative Glasnović, I have to tell you. Please! Please! [[/Invadica Glasnović: And why doesn't every Croat have a housewife?]] I'm asking you to calm down. I'd have more reason to warn a lot of you, because I think it's cultural to listen, whether you agree or disagree. That's the first thing. Please be patient and ask for a word. And I think we can talk civilised about this. Representative...... Please! [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Please! Representative Glasnović, please refrain from commenting. Representative Glasnović, I must give you a warning because you have no right to insult. I'll tell you again. The truth can always be spoken no matter how painful, but not in a way that offends itself. The next representative to report for the replica is representative Zeljko Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19364	Thank you, Mr. President. Here I am truly sorry that there is no fellow Pernar today that he hears a little of this and, in his performance, comment through the replica or already through the debate. So many of those who condemn Mr. Pernar in his way of speech said why he entered into the opening of all the war conflicts from the last century to the public, to show how thin the emotions are and how many people can boast about you today and to dispute tomorrow. You're a Ustasha for one, you're a Chetnik for the other. We started talking about removing immunity here. I will not vote first to remove immunity because I believe that justice in the Republic of Croatia does not work well, and you all know that. Because all these procedures that you say aren't being prosecuted are the subject of justice. When Mr. State's Attorney Cvitan was on the board, in a closed area when I asked him if he was looking for the means to build a war crimes department says there are no people, no funds. When I asked him how they were investigated, then they filed charges for renting booths to one association that collects signatures for the referendum, and he does. Then he said there's no politics in my thigh. Introduce politics to the state's attorney's office, give them the resources they need to be processed and let these topics be removed from the Croatian Parliament because these are not the primary topics for Vukovar that we often mention here. I would rather that our prime minister and Prime Minister Vukic agreed after 25 years of war that each country would give 250 million kuna, that it would make 10,000 jobs there, that people would start living and working there, not that Vukovar would be one day a year where we would all go, there bowing to the victims and politically exploiting them in an inappropriate way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19365	I would like to thank Agent Lackovic. The representative who also reported for the replica is MP Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19366	Thank you, Mr. President. First, it is not a problem in Cyrillic and Cyrillic plates, or that law, because we are aware that in other places these panels were placed from Udbina and beyond, but they began to strip when they violently started setting up in Vukovar. In Vukovar, it should be recalled that the main street during the occupation wore the name Puniša Račića, and that is exactly the message where Vukovar should have become the town of pitet and with the right exception that these panels are not placed there because of everything that has been said that the victims did not experience satisfaction and that Vukovar is a symbol of Croatian freedom and independence. In that sense, Mr. Culey and all those accused or tried for violent stripping are right and I support them precisely because Vukovar, we do not treat Vukovar as we should. I would just remind you that if you wanted the relationship that Vukovar deserves and what I believe with this Vukovar law as a special area of piety that it will be defined and that we will no longer have such discussions, that it is something that is in the tradition of all freedom movements and all those who have been victims throughout history. I would remind only one far away thing that could serve as a metaphor has no such direct connections and consequences as it was done in Vukovar a few years ago was first played by Wagner in Israel, so the conductor apologized to Israel for playing Wagner. And Wagner has nothing to do with the Nazi regime. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] But simply the people didn't agree to it because of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19367	Thank you. Representative Tomislav Klaric reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19368	Dear fellow Glasnovic, Cyrillic is just a letter. It was also a verb, Cyrillic, Latin, and this isn't about Cyrillic as a letter, this is about something completely different. We recently had the opportunity to watch some of us promote the film made by the National Police Union Ovcara. There in that film until in detail it was elaborated what was happening on the Ovcara. The names of those who killed were written. In the background, voices are heard by those who were present who looked at it and no one answered. Personally, if I had been there that day and when they were taking off the board, I'd probably have done the same thing he did because it's not the place for those records in Vukovar at this time, as long as those same people who did it haven't been processed. The coalition that was previously in power published a defence register and it was their pre-election programme. Have we ever wondered why not publish some register of abolized Chetniks, members of those paramilitarys who still live in the Republic of Croatia today? And they were some kind of fighters and they fought. But there was one of them and the bloodthirsty man who killed pregnant women, so they didn't answer, and they're walking around with Vukovar today. And what those defenders did up there in Vukovar when they were protesting against these Cyrillic plates did the same thing that anyone does when he's powerless against the system, when he feels that deep injustice, and when he tries to express his despair in this way as Mr. Culey did and all those who are meant to do this. And I think it's high time that we in Croatia show dignity to that victim only to Vukovar than to all those who are somewhere in some pits, still buried and who are their closest still looking for.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19369	Representative Darko Milinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19370	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I agree with Mr. Klaric, but when it comes to Cyrillic, then many municipalities and cities have bilingual inscriptions. Here's a mention of Udbin I'll mention Lika-Senj County, Udbin, Donji Lapac, Tops. What's the problem? None of you even know that's where the Cyrillic plates are placed and that the law is respected. It is the town of pieteta that Vukovar is the place on the globe where Cyrillic plates are placed must be well, well planned and with deep and piety towards the victims and sensibilities to determine the time when this is to be done. A few of us here talked about when the vote was requested on the removal of immunity that we were not voting for the removal of immunity or to be against or to be abstentioned, but because of Mr. Culey's wish, we wanted to ask for a club break to agree on how we would vote, but because of Mr. Culey's wish to show in fact his heroism and the heroism of those people who are covered by this investigation. But I guess the judiciary, someone mentioned, inefficient justice, will have the strength to give priority to this case, too, and this criminal application has been raised under suspicious circumstances. Let us remember Berislav Rončević, a man who spent 10 years and his family and four children living a Calvary's life a social problem, had he not had a friend of four children would have stayed hungry on the street if it hadn't been for friends. After 10 years freed And that's why I think the judiciary should give Culey a priority to prove his not innocence but courage. [[Intruder Petrov: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19371	Time. Thank you. Reply to the replica, MP Glasnovic. I would like to ask the parliamentary representatives to refrain from commenting while the other parliamentary deputies are being presented.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19372	I would only question this primarily if we were to stick to Mr. Cule's immunity. Article 8. What I think is proposed by Mr Milanović and not HDZ should check it, is it a violation of the Constitution at all? And secondly, isn't this that the plates aren't in the jurisdiction of local self-government? Is there even a constitutional setting of these panels? Who's asking these questions? I'm not a legal expert, but it needs to be overlooked. I think this is if it's like that if it's unconstitutional, it's just a smoke screen for someone's versions of false multiculturalism, promoting some values so-called. Cosmopoliticalism, etc. Under the cover of human rights. And I don't think this is constitutional at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19373	Thank you. And the last representative to report for the replica to be presented by MP Glasnovic is Culej. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19374	Your Honor. Mr. Glasnović, I have often opened various topics with you and with many colleagues. I must say, on the other hand, I have no friends, no acquaintances, I have no one to drink coffee with, and probably neither they, nor want to share greetings or anything. We're supposed to be colleagues, but we're not. Between us is an invisible line, a line that divides us both here and our society. We are well-known, General, that upon our return from the battlefield, we have gone our separate ways, we have not taken control of this country and our own hands, and that we have created it towards those who have given everything for it, therefore our lives, according to their wishes and their hopes for their descendants, who now, as far as I and my population, defend them, are going from Ireland to foreign countries. I must say, I am glad that in this Croatian Assembly there is at least one such general and one man so however you consider us, however much you have an opinion about us, we still exist, we still walk upright, we still have our own goal, and this is our free country Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19375	Thank you, Agent Cule. Representative Arsen Bauk reported to participate individually in the debate. Here you go. I apologize in advance because for the sake of protocol I will have to leave the post with the president of Montenegro's Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19376	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll be record short. I only reported because it is the only business opportunity for the Croatian public to warn about the cowardice silence of the SDSS in the event of an open violation of the Serbian national minority's right to use language and letter.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19377	The replica was reported by a respected representative of Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19378	Thank you. Dear counterpart Bauk, the SDSS has a clear view on Cyrillic panels in Vukovar, so we advocate the full and consistent implementation of the Constitutional Law adopted unanimously in the Croatian Parliament, so by single vote of all parliamentary deputies who voted in 2002 in the 12th month for the Constitutional Law when the criteria for the application of bilingualism were laid down, this is the first thing for the full application of the law on language and letter of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, which was adopted in 2000 by the same consensus of all political parties almost unanimously, therefore with some 130 votes. So we advocate the rule of law, the protection of human rights and the rights of national minorities and the full and consistent application of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19379	Thank you. The reply to the replica will be given by the distinguished representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19380	Thank you. My colleague Milosevic is familiar with your position but I was sorry that I had to provoke you to express it because obviously these provocations on the right were not enough. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19381	That's what I'd like to conclude. Here you are, the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19382	Thank you, sir. ... Excuse me, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19383	The subject of the vote? We have a SDP club. [[Intruder Bačić: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19384	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19385	Thank you. Any more clubs yearning for that? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'll see you at 13.10. It's 1:00 P.M. Here's my colleague and colleague. Time's up. To elect the distinguished representative Blaženko Boban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19387	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'm going to ask you on behalf of the HDZ Club for an extension of the break until 13:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19388	Okay, I approve. That 30 minutes could be, so I'll see you at 13:30. It's 13,15 o'clock. There's a colleague and a colleague. The break's over. I'm asking you to take your seats. I am informed that the HDZ Representatives' Club and the SDP's Club have also given up seeking words. Therefore, we can continue with the session. Here's the esteemed representative, Stevo Culey, who asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19390	Dear President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Once again, I ask you to unanimity me that in a werewolf court, on behalf of everyone else who is accused of this trial, to prove our innocence, not to be above the system, so that I remain without going to court, and those of my friends to go. So once again, please vote for my confiscation of immunity.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19391	Thank you very much. I have a request for a single vote of the SDP club but I understand that I understand that you're giving up on the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19392	We're withdrawing the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19393	Thank you very much. Here's what we can conclude. And I am voting on the proposal for a decision by the Mandate-Immunity Commission as proposed here. Please vote who's in favour? I find that most votes have been decided as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Of the 94 present 77 is for, 8 abstentions and 9 against. Here you go. The word has been requested by the esteemed representative Furio Radin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19394	Thank you very much. It was noticed before and even on the unexpected side that my colleagues from the SDSS had not been heard. I want to, I'm sorry. Based on this vote from HDZ, you watched HDZ vote? [[Intruder Reiner: colleague Radin.]] Did you watch the HDZ vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19395	Comrade Radin, the debate is over, the vote is over. A colleague of Radin's and the debate is over and the vote is over. And the debate and the vote is over. [[/Intruder Radin: If it hadn't been for the opposition to vote, this proposal would have fallen. For the first time in Parliament's history.]] So please! So we have another report from the Mandate-Immunity Commission and I am asking the President of the Honorable Representative of the Tušek to take over. [[I know that's what you're holding on to.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19396	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The debate at the Committee was somewhat broader, so the report is somewhat broader because of the public's interest in the case of counterpart Ivan Pernar. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the sixth session held on 17 November 2016 the request of private prosecutor Marijan Hanžeković from Zagreb to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the conduct of criminal proceedings against MP Ivan Pernar in the Croatian Parliament for the criminal offence referred to in Article 147 paragraph 2. Penalty law. Ivan Pernar is the 9th meeting of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have immunity until the term of office is terminated, and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against the MPs, no criminal proceedings can be initiated. The President of the Committee referred in the opening section to the Institute of Immunities, which was regulated in Article 86. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which knows the immunity of the representative's irresponsibility and immunity as well as the practice of our commission so far in relation to the abolition of immunity. In particular, it was stressed that the immunity of a representative is not a personal privilege, the privilege of a representative, but a legal means of ensuring the independence of the parliament's representatives. However, it often happens that advocates abuse this institute to offend, slander, threaten the reputation, honor, and dignity of other people without responsibility. The rise in the level of culture in public performances is considered to be a fundamental task for all participants in the political life of Croatia, as well as the adoption of an ethical code for MPs should contribute to the dignity of the exercise of representation. He also met the members of the Committee on Up-to-date established practice in the previous meetings of the Croatian Parliament on requests for authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against MPs or the abolition of the immunity of MPs. Thus, at the request of the State Attorney's Office as an independent and independent judicial body which is obliged to act against the perpetrators of criminal and other criminal offences, authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings has been granted as well as a court which is in charge of the procedure in order to enable them to exercise, independently and independently, judicial, or judicial authority under the Constitution and law. However, in the case of private prosecutors, the Commission has taken the view that it is proposing to the Croatian Parliament that authorisation be denied for the initiation of a criminal proceedings. Namely, the Commission's view was that the Institute of Immunity was established in order to protect the agent's duties, not in order to protect the representative as an individual, to conduct criminal proceedings, as well as any actions that would have to be taken in this regard could make it impossible for a representative to act as his regular representative, and thus also affect the work of the Croatian Parliament. Prior to the opening of the debate, he urged all MPs to balance their public appearances and, regardless of the problem they are trying to address with the social phenomenon they are trying to warn, to put their political game, to the values they stand for, their communication framework, their style of political action within the framework of polite and polite behaviour and expression. The Croatian language is rich enough that all important messages can be sent through it, including those that include elements of political satire but without insult. In the debate, Commissioner Ivan Pernar reiterated all the allegations made by the prosecutor's private lawsuit and requested protection from criminal proceedings or that his immunity be not lifted after the private suit was filed. Most members of the commission pointed out the importance of freedom of opinion and speech of MPs, but also condemned an inappropriate dictionary that some MPs use when talking about certain topics and people, which is not appropriate to the function they are acting on. Representatives should refrain from statements which are presumed to have the mark of a criminal offence and not hide behind parliamentary immunity. At the end of the debate, the majority of the members of the commission agreed with the current practice of the commission when necessary and when it is not necessary to grant authorisation for the conduct of criminal proceedings against MPs. Following the debate, the Mandate-Immunity Commission shall, on the basis of Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament voted by a majority of 7 votes in favour of the Croatian Parliament's proposal to make the next decision. During the term of the term of office, authorisation for the conduct of criminal proceedings against Agent Ivan Pernar shall be denied at the request of private prosecutor Marijan Hanžeković of Zagreb on 15.11.2016 at the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb for the offence of the offence referred to in Article 47(1) and (2) of the Croatian Criminal Code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19397	Thank you very much. I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Arsen Bauk reported for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19398	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. I think I'm going to use all ten minutes because I want to say something about the issue of parliamentary immunity and freedom of speech of counsel. I said that in a similar way, it seems to me in 2010 when we talked about a similar issue of removing immunity from a private suit. And I'd like to say right now that we're not going to take down Pernar's immunity doesn't protect him from this lawsuit, he's just delaying his trial with the D.A. when his term of office ends. Therefore, it is wise to watch what anyone is saying because protective immunity does not protect him from being reported and charged and held accountable. This practice that we have, which is that, at the request of the State's Attorney's Office, we have seen that at the request of a private prosecutor, it is not an immunity that is a practice that exists in the Croatian Parliament for a long time, but also at the last item of the agenda, we have seen that in this first case it can be tried and that it is necessary to seek long breaks and consultations so that the case is not precedentd. As far as freedom of speech is concerned, I'd like to warn you of one more thing. So, for the sake of what has been said other than the application other than criminal proceedings, a procedure for compensation for damages from which the representative allegedly has no immunity may be conducted. Not only because the representative says it in the media, but because he says it in this assembly. I think that we should pay great attention to this and clearly determine whether we are protected by immunity under Article 76(2) for what we say in this assembly. The constitution, which says "Advocacy cannot be called to criminal responsibility, detained or punished for an opinion or vote in the Croatian Parliament". In 2010, HRT sued MP Damir Kajin for something he said at the Croatian Parliament for a pay phone, not a criminal, not a criminal, but a civil case for damages. I then reacted and asked that it be unequivocally determined whether the representative immunity for the spoken word in the Parliament, so it is not what Pernar said outside, whether he is fully protecting the representatives from what they say or again anyone who would want to interfere with us in the work of speaking and speaking in the Assembly, and the microphone is what we MPs have only, whether he can do it in a detour through a civil lawsuit. In this case, the freedom of speech in the Croatian Parliament in this meeting of the Croatian Assembly of Representatives is once again at stake in this matter, and indeed it would be in several cases of compensation for damages, objectively or subjectively, that may be my position, but we need to assess the value of freedom of speech so that in this assembly we can speak what we want if we are so bravely just to repeat it in Mark's square, and not in the assembly, so let the one who is considered a damaged prosecutor or we are at risk of speaking in the Croatian Parliament also be exposed to some sort of lawsuit whose solution may be even greater than a private penalty suit that can end with some fine or even the condition that I do not know the exact provisions of the Penal Code in this sense. Therefore, Mr Vice-President, I also appeal to the Committee on the Constitution and to the Mandate-Immunity Commission to dedicate one item to this issue of their agenda and to define whether Article 76(2) applies. The Constitution for everything we say in the Croatian Parliament and on any kind of possible punishment, because local self-government council members have, by amending the laws that I have, by the way, proposed by the Parliament as minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19399	Thank you very much. Here's your exposure caused a whole series of replicas. She's the first one to represent Furi Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19400	Thank you very much. Yes, in the case of Damir Caine and Croatian television was indeed at the beginning, but what you forgot to tell Mr. Bauk was that in the end Mr. Cain was released. Why? Because that word was spoken in the Croatian Parliament. I do indeed argue that what the Constitution says should be explicitly taken because, otherwise, the history of immunity is one that shows that MPs must have freedom of speech and that a possible wave of lawsuits such as was in England in a very long time can be blocked even by the work of the Parliament and the work of parliament with such lawsuits. It started out like that and today, of course, it's interpreted in 100 ways. So Mr. Cain did end up unjustly in front of the jury that time, but we must also say that Mr. Cain was free of guilt.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19401	Thank you very much, the distinguished representative Arsen Bauk will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19402	Yeah, a little imprecisely you said there was no release of guilt because it was in the civil case, but the problem is that he had to go at all and there were evidence of whether he did the damage or not and that's why he was released. My view is that it should not have come to court at all but that the judge should have determined that someone sued him for saying so in the Croatian Parliament and to reject it or not at all, so I said so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19403	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19404	Your Honor, Vice President. I thank my colleague Bauk for this presentation and my view is that it is always necessary to protect the freedom of speech of MPs, that we have the right to express our views freely, that this article of the Constitution you have read should be understood in a way that representatives here can also be criticised, of course not exaggerated in terms of giving some difficult qualifications but that MPs can freely express themselves and express their views on certain events. We have here as the Club of Representatives of MOST one incredible situation that because of the presentation of our representative Ljubica Ambrusec in the past meeting by HRT employees Mr. Saša Runjic that we are all sued in a private lawsuit and here we are also invited to testify. So it's amazing to me that because of the state of the HRT by one of our MPs, all the representatives of the Most will be called to account. And that is something that we should strongly oppose and that we must not allow because MPs must have the opportunity to freely express their views and opinions. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19405	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19406	Thank you. In principle, I agree with you, I'm not fully aware of what you said, so you'll explain later. But I will give an example from the past of the work of the Croatian Parliament 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, the seats from my right are sitting colleague Željko Jovanovic, who in the last 10 years is the only representative whose immunity has been lifted on the HDZ's private lawsuit because he called them the same words that you called our government in the heat of combat and debate. There, we're not suing you. We're not like them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19407	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19408	Dear colleague Bauk, I agree with a lot of what you said. And for me, the Institute of Parliamentary Immunity is something that allows all of us freedom of expression within the framework of political struggle. The board president mentioned that one vote was against, that was my vote. Reflecting on parliamentary immunity and voting for or against what went beyond was Mr. Pernar's appearance on that board the absence of any empathy. The words that this man has spoken on the board, so after voting, alluding to man's disease and how much more he will live in me, is something that doesn't deserve any protection, let alone this one. Mentioning the name, any citizen of ours here for this pay phone, not giving him a chance to defend himself in any way, I think it's extremely unfair and unfair, and I don't think we should be behind it. Mr. Pernar, if he has that freedom of speech and that power of his, which he shows to all sides by calling people by name and last name, he should stand behind what he says and give up his immunity and not pay us on the board and beg to protect himself and then insult and touch a man's disease. I don't protect anyone here but I protect a citizen by name and name no matter who it is or what that man was doing. And I think everyone here should get their heads together and take a stand like that. Just before we removed the immunity of a man who expressed his opinion did what he did. I don't think these are the same scales. And let's all think about it together. I'll have parliamentary immunity in that case, if I call and insult anyone personally, I don't need anyone at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19409	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Bauk will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19410	As a representative, you have the right to vote on advice at the plenary session and no one can call you by the Constitution. If we didn't remove Mr. Pernar's immunity, that is, if we were to remove Mr. Pernar's immunity, he'd be on the defendant's bench soon, and if we didn't remove him, he'd be in four years while his term of assembly is up. Therefore, he will,.../The intruder is not heard. He will be punished if something has wronged the law for it, only he will not be punished now or will be punished when his parliamentary immunity ceases if the prosecutor does not drop the suit in the meantime. As for the comparison of two cases, this was first at the request of the state's attorney's office, and it seems to me that there is already an inadmissible verdict in that case. And this second one is at the request of a private prosecutor. That's exactly what the chairman of the Mandate Commission read that practice for private lawsuits is one thing and for the State's Attorney's Office and the Court of Justice. And now, of course, the question remains whether we should be the ones who should be politically judged, are we in one case going to be so-called. a verbal delinquent removes immunity because someone didn't show enough empathy and if someone comes to the Mandate Commission and shows remorse, then we won't. I think that criterion, though, when we decide together that these emotions shouldn't guide us, we should just take the principle and stick to it as hard as it is sometimes. Because one of the objections in the last case we discussed, it was personal to me that I might not have shown enough empathy and I say I was just law enforcement.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19411	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19412	Thank you, Vice President. So here's another case where we question a broader issue of immunity rights. I personally believe that immunity should not be without borders, immunity is a release and protection from the conduct of proceedings. But what you're saying, Mr. Bauk, isn't going into the process. It's something else. So you can't just because you're a parliamentary representative destroying someone's reputation, honor, disrupting their business achievements, or what a man in life has created just because you're a parliamentary representative. So Parliamentarians should be responsible for every lie, for every libel, for any violation of personality whether a person or a legal person and they must have the right to protection from us. And now that you see and question our position, see how it is for the press. All that journalists pass on and pass on what we are saying is they are the ones who are exposed because they have publicly published it, but they have the right to publish it because there is a social interest, there is an authorial act, there is an editorial opinion, the opinion of the editors, and it will all take into account the court if it is impartial and fair when you come next to it and we do not have to fear the judiciary and we do not have to express our opinion unless it is based on pure slander or untruth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19413	Thank you. The answer of Honorable Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19414	I must say, unlike most MPs who have responded to a replica with you this time, I disagree. So, here I'm not talking about the crime and the offense anymore, I'm talking about someone's assessment that someone's exposure in the House has done him harm. The parliamentary representative is then responsible only for the chairman to respect the Rules of Procedure. And if the chairman sees someone insulting, he'll take away his word and he won't be in the so-called. a legal word rather than a little bit will come out of the business provisions and then break that immunity of mys to express myself. Therefore, one who should protect one of the parliamentary representatives is the one who chairs the session and who has in his business opportunities to warn the person, take away his word and move away from the hall. And once he's out of the hall, there's no immunity anymore. Of course, I don't mean whether someone is holding a topic or not because there are now possibilities of broader interpretation, but really whether someone is insulting or not. There's already a bit of a narrow space for the possibility of interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19415	Thank you. I have to correct you, though, so it's not entirely true what you said because I, say, can't affect whether you insult someone in front of this hall or not. And yet you are protected by immunity. Just so things are clear. Next to the replica, the esteemed representative Gordan Maras reported.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19416	Thank you very much. In your debate, you mentioned a uniform court or practice in a representative body, I know of a case in the City of Zagreb where a representative in the City Assembly warned the mayor and asked him if he was afraid of God in view of the way the government and all corruption affairs taking place in the City of Zagreb and the mayor had filed a lawsuit against him, a lawsuit, a case, he did not have this degree of immunity that could not be done in general but the court had stepped into his defence and explained that a representative to carry out his duties could express his position and thus, if he was concerned with the public action of the person he was talking about. So on that side, I agree, there should be seen whether and to what extent to be discussed, we always have the chairman of the session who can warn someone who has offended someone, take away their word, give him a warning, fence from such a statement, and it also has a certain power and can be applied, but here we represent the citizens who chose us, who of course do not approve of the insults, but honor what we stand for and we must also say what our voters think. For example, HDZ may have absolutely nothing against godfather's welcome in Croatian waters by MOST, but because it is a practice that has been going on for the past 20 years when HDZ is concerned, but because of one part of its voters, they will be fenced from such behaviour. So on that side, we have to keep in mind that we represent certain people and that we represent a particular policy. And on that side, I agree with you that there is a need to even the practice so that MPs know what they can, what I can't and how they can behave in representing their views.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19417	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Bauk will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19418	In a specific case that you mentioned about the lawsuit, the councilman against the representatives of the city assembly, and the municipal and county court ruled against it by the representatives of the City Assembly and declared him guilty, and the Constitutional Court lifted the appeal by the basis, that verdict based on the provision of the Law on local self-government or local elections, I do not know now exactly what is identical to the constitutional provision of Article 76(2) and even slightly added, so that there would be no dilemma because I personally wrote that provision that it could not be interpreted differently. I thus expressed my position, so that the elected representatives of the people are at least at the meetings of the representative bodies or of the Croatian Parliament free to say what they will, and if they are brave enough let them repeat it just outside the hall, then they will receive a lawsuit. And here's what my colleague Grmoy said, so that's about what it was about Mr. Cain. So this shouldn't happen at all in my view, but I'm not the judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19419	Thank you. The following came forward for the debate, a distinguished representative, Jasen Mesic, told the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19420	Dear colleague Bauk, you know, some parliamentary representatives have been given a parliamentary term in populistism, insolence and such. Imagine the situation of me getting such a parliamentary term, four years here in front of the camera lights, television shows repeating that demagogue, untrue, accusing what I find to be a populist. And on that basis, I get a new term of office in the elections because the Mandate-Immunity Commission has not removed my immunity. So you're gonna sue him in four years, and every time you tell whoever's suing me, you're gonna sue him in four years. So let's say theoretically four, five choices. And then that man who suffers from the damage caused by demagogy and pulsism can only come to order for 20 years to cast out justice. And during that time, certain political points are being picked. I don't need immunity. in every speech, both in the assembly room and outside the assembly, I try to always be able to stand behind what I have said both legally and morally. What do I need immunity to protect me, regardless of all the lack of justice and any possible clips, I think I can stand behind it. Where is this border and dear fellow Parliament is not the speaker's corner that can speak of it whatever it wants, and in front of the door that it can, then it must watch out if only within the circle of these four walls can say whatever it wills, accuse it of whatever it wills of anyone, and then, on the committee, whine it against me. I'm not afraid. For everything I've said here and in front of me, I don't need immunity, because I can defend it in front of our justice, whatever it is with all the shortages.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19421	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Bauk will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19422	In that case, Mr. Mesic, we can get an extended Parliament presidency to put on a new principle, so we'll also take off immunity for private lawsuits. Now we have a principle to take off for... Otherwise, Mr Mesic's contribution is constructive even from the bench. [[/Intruder Mesic, you can't hear.]] [[/Intruder Reiner: Just please we won't communicate from the bench. Here you go, buddy.]] So that's the first one. So we have a principle. Now, Mr. Klaric, if I'm right, he added empathy to that. You can give something else. If everyone went to add something to the principle, the principle would be so complicated that it wouldn't be a principle anymore, it would be an arbitration decision. So let's stick to what's... I can't read your lips. The president will interrupt you if you're loud. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we can only discuss in the hallway afterwards, so either report to an individual debate. So as far as this is concerned, you're doing well, and you're getting off to a good start. So someone in the population and demagogy is given a mandate and will continue, and someone has received a mandate because he has promised 1000 euros for babies and will again receive a mandate, and may not. So we're going into politics. No, no, but in this case we are entering a political debate. I was talking about the principle of whether the parliamentary representatives in this hall or in this building are protected from the kind of lawsuits that were given to colleagues from MOST when they said something. And only by word. It is my only question that I think would be good and there is a need to discuss it at least on the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19423	Thank you. The next and last intervention is the distinguished representative of Zarko Tušak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19424	Thank you. I think we have entered the debate a little too widely and the impression is that the immunity right is some exclusive right that only the Croatian Parliament has and which does not know the comparative constitutional and legal practice in other European and world parliaments. However, I want to say here they are even more restrictive than the Croatian Parliament, which is very flexible in terms of the possibility and removal of immunity. Compare our Parliament and some other European parliaments, and you will see that we have not invented hot water. Today's practice, which we normally had on the Constitution Committee of the Croatian Parliament in 2002, was at the time discussed precisely those dilemmas that are in some way current today. And the practice that we have to date is actually the consequence in some way and the conclusions of that 2002 session of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. It is important here to emphasize what counterpart Bauk said, that procedural immunity, i.e. It's that immunity second, not this one... which we have here at the speaker of the Croatian Parliament, but the one we have for the spoken word and criminal acts outside of Croatia, outside of the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament has an exclusively temporary character. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I know that it may be difficult to accept one part of the Croatian MPs especially when it is seen that MPs knowingly violate certain provisions of criminal law as we had in the case of Agent Pernar would not dare categorize the essence of his crime, but it is quite evident that this is a serious crime of insult and slander. But here he is protected at this time by immunity, process immunity of the Croatian Parliament, our Constitution and our Rules of Procedure. Much more should be done in my opinion in the education of representatives and the promotion of the culture of dialogue and the quality of spoken words and thoughts. And as I said, the Croatian language is sufficiently content and rich in words that even the elements of political satire can be used without doing the crimes that many MPs do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19425	Thank you very much. And now we have an individual discussion of the distinguished representative of Mira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19426	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This topic is very important as Mr. Bauk said was very important. We have somehow come to this very important topic, which is the topic of responsibility for Croatian politics. And our constitution is not clear here, and this is a chance for us all to think about whether or not we're going to do it. In some countries immunity for slander is removed even if you are a parliamentary representative i.e. A representative in some parliament. Can't one MP, I think he can still be slandered right now and say whatever he wants without being sanctioned. Therefore, this is an opportunity for all of us to think together about whether we will complete the Croatian Constitution, Croatian legislation. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19427	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, not three, excuse me, and for your exposure. He is the first to be respected representative of Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19428	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am not sure that the Croatian Constitution should be completed because the Croatian Constitution states that man's dignity is one of the fundamental values. And what we have in our legislation that can be insulted, slandered, argued I think a person A is a criminal, I believe that a person A criminal is such a thing in countries of high democracy as Sweden simply cannot pass. You can't say that a person and a criminal can't write that a person A is being tried for crime but only when he's a powerful verdict then you can tell a person A is convicted either for this or that. Unfortunately, we do not appreciate such a culture and such values, and as far as I'm concerned, I believe that, I advocate that human dignity is fundamental and that no one can insult anyone else or take on the jurisdiction of the court and claim himself to be a thief, he is a criminal because I believe or know but we must respect the institutions of the state or system. And in that sense it means that regardless of whether it's a funny division if I'm saying something here, then I can say it, if I speak 20 meters away, then I can't speak and subject to other jurisdiction or other legal norms. And this is also about the media, and I believe that a lot more order would be introduced into our society, so that everyone would feel much better if they declared that human dignity is fundamental and took over, for example. from Swedish legislative practice, and if you want political cultures of behavior patterns to make it far more appropriate, and then all these discussions could neither have had to lead.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19429	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19430	Thank you very much. Fellow Kovac, you are indeed for some changes in the interpretation of parliamentary representatives in relation to the immunity and word spoken, but the fact is that the entire club of MOST must go to court in the first month because of its position on the HRT programme when Sasa Runjic was the director of the programme. We got a call at the 1st month and we're going to court. What kind of message is that to the MPs? Well, it's a good thing he didn't accuse the entire HRT Assembly of putting their views on the program on HRT, so answer me so you can react to it now.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19431	Thank you very much. I will therefore conclude the debate on this and I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, colleagues and colleagues. My colleagues and colleagues, we can keep our concentration even if it's Friday afternoon. Therefore, I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission as expressed. Please vote who's in. So we have a total of 79 this hour in the hall, 69 for, 4 abstentions, 6 is against, so I'm saying that most votes have been decided as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19432	There's a report on the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr. Zarko Tušek to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19433	Dear President, colleagues and fellow MPs. With the mandate of immunity, the Croatian Parliament's committee discussed at the 7th session held on 1 December 2016 the request of the attorney of the private prosecutor... group d.o.o. from the Seminacs sent to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the conduct of criminal proceedings against Davor Romic for the offence of the slander referred to in Article 149(1) and (2). Penalty law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Representative Davor Romić began acting on 19 October 2016 as deputy representative of Vlaha Orepić and on the basis of Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have immunity until the term of office has ceased, and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against it may not be initiated or prosecuted. Following the debate, on the basis of Article 116 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously with 6 votes in favour, the Commission proposed that the following decision be taken by the Croatian Parliament: During the term of the parliamentary term, the authorisation for the conduct of the criminal proceedings against MP Davor Romic is denied by the prosecutor's private suit... group d.o.o. from the Seeds for the offence of slander referred to in Article 149(1) and (2). Criminal law in the case before the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Do you need to read the whole explanation I don't think it is. There's a clear situation in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19434	I thank and open the debate. Representative Romic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19435	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Parliament, MPs. Here, in this honorable house, performing this honorable duty of a parliamentary representative, a normal man finds himself in different situations and those that are definitely very uncomfortable. We have to realize that last week we had the same debate when we stripped our two fellow MPs' immunity. And in some ways warned of the appeal that we must take care of publicly spoken words. I personally supported it very, very much because it has to be taken care of. By also acting on an honorable duty, the duty of the Minister of Agriculture, I have come to the point of seeking and removing immunity from me personally. However, in this case it is law enforcement. I didn't think I'd be in a position to remove immunity from anyone implementing the laws of the Republic of Croatia and the regulation of the European Commission. Namely, to be clear about what this is all about and what criminal charges are about, it's about the next one. That three shows of television and radio were told the fact. And the fact was this: that in the Republic of Croatia the system works and the law works, that in the Republic of Croatia we also took over certain European Commission regulations. Based on this, someone submitted a request for measures 411 and 421 of rural development. At these measures, certain companies competed. Procedures under the rules laid down by the European Commission and established procedures implemented by the Executive and Legislative Authority of the Republic of Croatia have been implemented. In those shows I just said one thing and very clearly, that the bodies of the Republic of Croatia are doing their own procedure, and those bodies are... group. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The group consists of DORH, Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Finance, Customs Administration, ARPA and other bodies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And based on that being said in three different places, I got this criminal application for libel. Just saying the facts and doing your job. I'm just wondering today where the ones who didn't do the same job were. Where are those who should have done this and not done it, but I should now be addressing you here in the Assembly because I did this job, and this job is by law and by the regulations of the European Commission. When you make the decision that you have made, here I want you to know what it is and why the slander of one interested group has been made against me personally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19436	Thank you. Representative Miro Bulj reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19437	Thank you very much. Mr. President, fellow Roma, you have protected as a minister of agriculture essentially legality, you have protected what our little OPGs in Slavonia should have received. You intended to protect these people to stay in the area, and of course it was your duty. However, in that case as the dog Bear was judged, in this case happens, in this case to you. Those who have favored various tycoons, which is why Slavonia is now suffering, they are now free to watch television, walk, and they have simply opted against the European Commission, so what has been sent to you as a minister. But we need to talk about you, we need to talk about you MOST's people, because of what we were protecting the law, what we wanted to protect the O.P.G.s, these little people to stop them from moving. That's embarrassing. Indeed, in Croatia, people who protect the law are tried and those who are full of pockets may or may not be caught for two days of potatoes and are most likely not caught. By reading both DORH and those institutions are absolutely not doing their job because if they were doing their job, that paper would not have come to you but would have already been done. And not those tycoons that have been favored now, they grieve you and ask you to answer the law. It can be a shame all the institutions that didn't work the way you protected our agriculture. That's why today this is happening in the Republic of Croatia to import our scissors, garbage. Only the legality and protection of every small man can Croatia be brought into an orderly state for which we fought and why we fought. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19438	Reply to the replica, MP Romic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19439	Member of Parliament, each of us who has come to this or any other post is obliged to implement the laws of the Republic of Croatia and to undertake commitments from the European Commission. We have long agreed that agricultural producers are small family farms and all those interested in producing in the Republic of Croatia are our target group. We also said that we have a rural development programme and that these rural development money should end up where rural development is happening, which is in rural areas. They wouldn't talk about us coming into a situation to implement all these projects in rural space and to help those who need it, we would have development and like this we only have targeted stakeholders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19440	Thank you. The replica was also reported by a representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19441	Your Honor. Here's fellow Romic, if there's a man who, by his conduct, by measure, doesn't deserve to be sued for slander, then it's you. So you never called anyone by name or by name in your public appearances, so you never mentioned any company, as far as I know in the period when you were a minister. The only thing you insist on is exactly what you said on legality, that incentives cannot be paid in the way that former Minister Jakovina intended. So you're the man who stuck to the letter of the law, who insisted on what he asked of us and the European Commission. And that is why those who are dissatisfied with your conduct, and that you have obeyed the law, make a complaint against you for defamation. This shows that MOST will continue to be exposed to impactes, will be exposed to attacks of interest groups, will be exposed to the blows of a certain part of the media, and this is what we witness these days and what our young representative Ivana Ninčević has experienced, whose only sin is that she dared to engage in politics and has achieved everything in private business while many who sit here have done nothing but, all they have done through politics and thanks to political parties. We will continue to fight both the tycoon and the interest groups and the share of the media. Mr. Hanžekovic will not stop us from taking the funds that he takes in his pocket at the expense of Croatian citizens, we will change the Law on HRT and they will continue to hit. We will continue to do what the citizens have chosen us to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19442	Thank you. Reply to the replica, MP Romic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19443	Thank you very much, Mr. President, MP. Just for a little while, at all the press conferences, I said there were 21 companies in the process until the final conference when I just said that there were irregularities found in 10 of them. So never, for me, is a presummation of innocence until the institutions of the system determine the actual state. In this case, the factual situation was absolutely clear and decisions were made or decisions would be made. It's all a duty for us to do things by the law, and I'll always do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19444	Thank you for the... Oh, no? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So he gave up, the MP gave up the debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I ask esteemed MPs to approach the vote. The vote is over. A decision of 83 votes was unanimously taken to take the decision as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's work, the continuation of the session is on Tuesday 6:12 p.m. with a point of the Final Proposal for a Law on Public Procurement. I ask the committees to discuss on Monday the legislative proposals that we have put on the agenda. Have a nice weekend. The next item is the Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr. Zarko Tušek to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19446	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 8th session held on 8 December 2016 the written request of Representative Damir Jelic, who informed the President of the Croatian Parliament to put his representative mandate on hold on 8 December 2016, on the basis of Article 14. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament has appointed Tomislav Liposčak as deputy representative. The commission found that the law laid down the conditions for the start of the stay of MP Damir Jelic's term of office, as well as the conditions for the start of the conduct of his deputy, Tomislav Liposčak, as well. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament and Article 9(2) and 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously with seven votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the stay of MPs' mandate and the start of acting as deputy representative on 8 December 2016 began to mean the rest of the representative's term of office, Damir Jelic. Tomislav Lipošcak shall be represented by the deputy representative in accordance with Article 9(2). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament begin to act on the day when the Assembly determines the legal assumptions for the application of the Institute of Replacement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19447	I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm opening a debate. Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19448	Thank you, Mr. President. If the chairman of the committee would like to answer me as a proposal, I'd like to know if you checked whether there were candidates on the list who crossed the 10% threshold and put them in exchange instead of checking what the party did. If there were such candidates, have you checked, I'm curious? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19449	Here's Agent Tušek.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19450	Yeah, we checked.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19451	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19452	Allow me, with the emphasis of an authorised promoter, he's always a political party. I understand in what context you are opening this discussion, but the authorising officer is always a political party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19453	Representative Bauk, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19454	Mr. Mandating President, we understand each other completely. I think that the Mandate Commission in one case made a mistake by applying the Law on Elections of Representatives to the Croatian Parliament and it would be good to find that out and not make that mistake anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19455	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19456	I understand the context of your discussion, I just want to say that in a specific case, the promoter was also a political party and I believe and we believe in the commission that there is no need for us to enter into the matter of political relations within the party and the possibility of a political agreement within the party, I would like to stress, especially if there is no objection to the political party's proposal. In the case you're talking about there was a political party's decision, there was a commission's work and no objection came. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19457	I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I ask the esteemed MPs and MPs to vote on who's in favour? The vote is over. I find it unanimous with 108 votes for the decision made as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Honored ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in accordance with Article 7 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure, I'll read the text of the oath. Then call on the representative of Tomislav Liposčak who rises and pronounces the word: I swear. The text of the oath reads: I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia. Representative Tomislav Lipoščak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19458	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19459	Congratulations to the representative. ... I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr. Zarko Tušek to file a report. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19460	Thank you. So, the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament also discussed at the 8th session held on 8 December 2016 the request of the Municipal State Attorney's Office in Zagreb from 24 November 2016 through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia from 1 December 2016 to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the conduct of criminal proceedings against Agent Ivan Pernar, representative in the Croatian Assembly for criminal offences against property damage to foreign matters referred to in Article 235(2). Penalty law. Ivan Pernar is the 9th meeting of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office has been terminated and shall not be able to initiate or conduct criminal proceedings without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against the same. Following the discussion of the Mandate-Immunity Commission pursuant to Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament by, 5 for, 1 against and 1 abstention shall propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the following decision: It shall be approved to conduct criminal proceedings against Agent Ivan Pernar at the request of the Municipal State Attorney's Office in Zagreb from 24 November 2016 through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia as of 1 December 2016 for the criminal offence against the property of the damage to foreign matters referred to in Article 235(2). Penalty law. The mandate-immunity commission in its work shall continue to maintain its busy principle position in cases where a request for the initiation and conduct of a criminal proceedings is submitted by the State Attorney's Office or the Court of Justice, so that they can carry out their duties in an uninterrupted and independent manner on the basis of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19461	I'm opening a debate. The first to participate in the debate was the Living Wall and, on their behalf, representative Ivan Pernar [[Intruder: Whoever wants to apply for a hearing must go ahead there.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19462	That in the interest of informing the MPs just to explain to us what this is about. We don't officially know what this is about, just to explain to us the board president, the commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19463	Since the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission has partly explained what this is about, you have the opportunity to apply for a hearing while there is an argument.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19464	Dear ladies and gentlemen, today we are in an unusual situation. So, the country's going down, it's going down for clear reasons, the state's been robbed. It is also known who robbed her, who is responsible for the deep division of our society, and it is known in the end why such monetary policy is being implemented, who is running it, who has amended the National Bank Act, who has passed the executive law that has pushed 330 thousand citizens into the blockade, etc., etc. Today, however, the immunity of the people who have destroyed this country, the people who have stolen our country, the people who have sucked millions out of the state budget, the people whose convictions have fallen in the Constitutional Court, the people who have, say, 14 million kunas been convicted of peeling potatoes, all these people are deeply recognised and respected members of our community. We are in an absurd paradoxical situation because Ivo Sanader has not been convicted either. Ivo Sanader was released, former HDZ president. We are in a situation where the complete top of HDZ claims that he knew nothing about what was going on with FIMI MEDIA, that he didn't know that money was coming out even though they all signed off on taking money from these actually black funds. They know it all, they signed it, not a single HDZ member was tried for it. The only ones on the defendant's bench are the people who actually technically implemented those decisions, such as cashier, accountant, etc. However, even those people who admitted guilt during the first degree process now suffer from collective amnesia and none of them remember what happened. I remind you that Nadan Vidosevic, another HDZ member for a million-dollar robbery, although the indictment was filed three years ago and today the trial did not begin until the rule of law works in a way that the man who painted the bear in his den has already reached a verdict. Which will say that our judiciary is unfair, that the decisions made by our judiciary are not fair and that the DORH does not act impartially. The DORH is not a body that decides in a fair way who it will process, who it will not, or which it is biased. Coli Lackovic recently gave a statement that shocked me while I was listening to him, by the way, I wasn't in the Parliament, I watched it over YouTube, he said the next thought, I asked Mr. Cvitan when he came to Parliament the next question, why not prosecute war crimes, why women in Vukovar who were raped, why families of murdered people don't have the right to justice, why criminals don't be punished and prosecuted. And then Mr. Cvitan gave a shocking thought or confession. He said Mr. Lackovic, yes, there were crimes, it's undeniable. But the state's attorney's office doesn't have the resources, there aren't enough people, so we're humanely sub-disciplined to process these things. So DORH doesn't have enough resources to prosecute war crimes. The DORH does not have enough resources to process converted crime, although the State Audit report is such that 90% of all privatisations were made by law. So for such things, DORH has no resources. However, for my prosecution because I made two graphite Living Walls in Sopnica on a building where Milan Bandic had a family tasked with such things a few months earlier. So the DORH has both time and money and we see no regrets nor of the people to enter my prosecution for the damage of the total amounting to a thousand kuna. I'm asking you if repainting two graphites is worth 1,000 kuna. They claim it's worth it. And let's start from the assumption that I think it's much less costing that the total damage to the beginning of 1,000 kunas. And how much damage, they say, is damaged the city of Zagreb, damaged the Croatian electricity industry for a thousand kunas in total. And how much damage did the mayor make to the city of Zagreb, how many different directors of Croatia's electricity industry have done to our country, our society and our people? And so, before I vote on my immunity, I want to read a single piece of the Gospel by a game of John, 8. A chapter, Jesus, and an adulterer. Jesus, on the other hand, went to the Olive Dawn, returned to the temple at dawn. Everyone's gathered around him again. Jesus sat down and began teaching. In this the teachers of the law and the Pharisees brought a woman caught in adultery and placed her before men. It's like that situation where me, the police say we caught him in the very act of drawing graphite, it's an indictment proposal. And they told Jesus, Master, this woman was caught in the very act of adultery. By law, Moses commanded us to stone such women. In the same way, the Manato-Immunity Commission tells us that the practice requires us to remove immunity from people for whom the DORH is seeking persecution and to process them. This question was a trap, imagine what the thought was, so this question was a trap to have him for what to charge. So in this process against adultery, it wasn't really the subject of adultery itself, it was Jesus. However, in this case of my removal of immunity, I am the one who is the goal, which is a comfortable and offender alleged and the purpose means this issue, that is, this accusation. But Jesus bowed down and began to write something with his finger on the earth. As they kept asking, he stood up and said, "Who of you has never sinned, let him throw a stone at her first." Then he bowed down again and continued to write on the ground. Ladies and gentlemen of the HDZ, are there people among you who have sinned not for a thousand kunas, not for a million kunas, but for tens of millions of kunas? Are there people like that among you and did the DORH prosecute them and are these people ultimately convicted? It's a question that every one of you has to ask. How much damage you have done to our people during your reign for many years, over a year. And said Jesus when they heard it, so the Pharisees, imagine the teacher of the law is the Pharisee. Jesus says that they were the greatest hypocrites of his time. But here we have greater hypocrites than those who lived in Jesus ’ day. For the hypocrites of Jesus ’ day, when Jesus asked them which of you was without sin, let the first stone be cast, John 8.9 says: when they heard it, they began to go one by one. Says the elders left first. So gentlemen and HDZ, the longer the internship is, the longer the fingers are. In the end, Jesus was left alone with a woman who was still standing before him. Jesus stood up and asked the woman where they were, did no one condemn you? No one, sir, she answered. So when it was famous, let's call the street trial of that adulterer all the people who accused her realized that they had more to say than that woman's head path and had a sense of shame, they were ashamed. However, the HDZ gentlemen in my court have no shame and are not embarrassed. I have written on the facebook in my time that I am by some chance in HDZ and that by any chance Ivan Pernar is on the other side and that I know what HDZ is charged with and that if I knew what Ivan Pernar is charged with, it would be a shame for me personally, ladies and gentlemen. It would be embarrassing for me to hold institutions and because we know that you hold them, that they are not impartial, that they work selectively. I would be embarrassed to go into such a process against Ivan Pernar. And then she says, the prostitute says "No sir" answered. Jesus says to it, "I don't judge you either, go away and from now on make no mistake." Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you, do you gentlemen of the HDZ have shame, do you have the shame of people in the USKOK, in the DORH, and that, in fact, the question that will finally be, what will be the meaning of my, say, this trial? Will people, when they see my trial on TV, in front of the cameras, cry out to that voice, "It's guilty," cry out, "Living the rule of law? This is proof that the laws in Croatia are being implemented, this is proof that justice is winning." Will it cry out? And finally, what kind of message will be sent to the other law enforcement officers because the purpose of any criminal sanctions is not just to send a message to the defendant, i.e. the convict and society. What message are you gentlemen from HDZ sending to me with my conviction? As a result, I have no doubt about this procedure, and I will explain it later in an individual debate, but what I want to point out is which message do you send to society? And the message society has received over the past 25 years is that big crime is not punishable, not sanctioned, protected and covered, and that small people who have made multiple fewer than those who accuse them, who hold institutions all to process such small people. It is my opinion that the reason why certain HDZ people are not being prosecuted even though there are countless criminal charges against them on the one hand and on the other hand why are I being prosecuted for such a banal act? I believe that it lies in a political nature and that the aim is to exert political pressure on the faults because of the statements I have expressed in this House and beyond. I must point out that when I put the government together, I was warned to Pernar if you won't sign Plenkovic, you will be the subject of DORH and HRT. Ladies and gentlemen, the fulfillment of your promise I experienced today or yesterday, and I believed your promise, I was aware of what would happen to me in the future, but in my heart, I said I would rather pay that price than be planted with the devil of pumpkins. Dear citizens, I'm not the only one who's being tried here. Judge yourself. Because here I am not in the role of myself but as your chosen representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19465	Thank you. However, I am obliged to react because of the clarity and clarifications both towards Croatian citizens and viewers of this session. Therefore, the removal of immunity is not related to any political party but rather to the request of the DORH. So, in the presentation of a distinguished colleague, Pernar, it could be concluded that HDZ is seeking to remove immunity, which is not true. This is a request coming from the DORH, and the Parliament has so far reacted in all similar situations and made such a decision that it went into removing immunity and were mainly decisions made by consensus. So not by the political will of a political party. Another thing that is also important, it was said here that someone from HDZ, also mentioned HDZ President Plenkovic that he asked you to vote for HDZ otherwise someone would threaten you with DORH. It's a lie, it's a lie. And I would ask you not to say such things here because you know very well that it is not true, or at any time and at any time someone from HDZ would dare to do such a thing or offer you such a thing. So please, colleague Pernar, don't say such things. We have several replicas, the first to appear for the replica was the distinguished colleague Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19466	Dear colleague Pernar, there is exactly one rule in this House, an unwritten rule that, at the request of the DORH, immunity is lifted for MPs. But this DORH request, in your case, I consider one of the top cynicisms not only because of everything you've listed, numerous crimes, national robberies, everything you've been saying about HDZ, it's true. This is about a one-of-a-kind crime. And he's really in town, so he wants to haunt you for the graphite on the building, go out to the city, there's not one building in the City of Zagreb without graphite. Who ever answered for that? And now one of the MPs wants to file a criminal case for it? A few days ago, it's been 25 years since the murder in the Rabbit family, they killed like a 11-year-old dog, no one's ever been responsible for it, no one. It's the state where we live and why we have to look at the floor when we walk the streets. And now he wants to prosecute one of the parliamentary MPs for the matter of graphite. Says the Vice President of the Parliament without the right to replicate, but by replicating you, violating the Rules of Procedure that this is not a matter of parties. Yes, it is a question of party relations to this problem of removing immunity. So far, there's been a rule, and so far I've always voted to remove immunity from a representative when he's looking for a DORH. Today in your case publicly here I say I won't do it. I won't vote to remove your immunity, because I consider it a moral question, not a right.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19467	Replication response, dear colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19468	Mr. Stazic, you said one thought. There are so many buildings out there. I'm going to go one step further and say the whole of Dalmatia is pampered with by HDZ graphites. There are also bus stops and HEP's trans-stations, there's nowhere to find them. How many people, ladies and gentlemen of the HDZ, have been prosecuted for this? And I have one more question for them. What I'm being burdened with, that is, this persecution itself is insane, because this is a violation of the communal order. So, what I've done falls either under the municipal order of the city of Zagreb, graphics or criminal law. And it's not clear to me why and by what key the DORH has taken over my persecution, and in the end, ask yourself if this is something that deserves a prosecution and a removal of immunity. This time I show deep respect and gratitude to SDP representative Nenad Stazic for doing the opposite of practice when he saw what kind of farce and how he said the highlight of cynicism is being done here. On the defendant's bench, unfortunately, and removing immunity shouldn't be for me today, but for some other people. But like I said, these people are holding all the institutions. There are even in the Constitutional Court, one man who admitted to taking 200,000 euros in fees. Never for that, here you are still sitting in the Constitutional Court. His immunity is not removed. Ivan Pernar is said to be in damages of 1,000 kuna, although I claim that the smaller one is trying to remove immunity. I appeal to the conscience of other fellow MPs primarily from the SDP's order headed by Mr. Gordan Maras to make this time in contrast the previous one shows more spine. [[Intruder Jandroković: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19469	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the replicas. The second in a row is Honorable colleague Žarko Tušek.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19470	Thank you, Mr. President. And what if the MPs didn't have the immunity of fellow Pernar hypothetically? We declare that we no longer change the Constitution that we no longer have immunity. Then who would be responsible for this? Representative Tušek, representative Jandrokovic? Who we'd be polymizing with then, here's an honest question I'm asking you. The Croatian Parliament does not decide at all on the measure of this crime. We don't judge anyone here. Immunity commission doesn't judge you. I, as a man of this committed crime and the fact that the DORH is about to pursue you may have his own private opinion. In extreme terms, whether it is a criminal offence at all or it should have been an offence, however it is, will be tried by the Croatian court, and not by this Croatian Parliament. You're talking about credibility and legal practice. I'll remind you, on 17.11. there was also a request on our commission to remove immunity from you on private charges. Then you appealed to the Immunity Commission and to all of us MPs and to me as president to stick to the legal practice that we have, to be credible because you felt that some of us individuals might then be able to go beyond legal practice. In that case, your practice was appropriate. Today practice no longer suits you. I'm not saying practice is the best, I'm not saying it at all. In fact, leaders of political parties may have a parliamentary agreement, amongst parties. We can open the topic, we can discuss the subject of the Constitutional Court, I think the Committee on the Constitution of the Croatian Parliament, we can agree that in the future we will have some other practice. But it's very hypocritical that individuals and I as the head of this committee because we respect the legal practice you call for... personally. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because it's not a personal matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19471	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19472	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, thank you, Mr. Tušek, for your replica. You'll say there's nothing controversial about that decision, that it's not politically motivated. And I'm asking you, if this indictment of mine isn't politically motivated, why has DORH waited five years to press charges against Mr. Bozidar Calmeta when all the knowledge he has today is five years old and five years ago. For what reason? I'm convinced of the political. You'll claim not to. You may argue that all of your colleagues who took money from FIMI Media, or the money that was drawn from FIMI Media, who were dividing and hosting each other gentlemen, had foster homes after each session of the HDZ Presidency at the expense of the stolen citizens of the Republic of Croatia, that none of these people in the HDZ presidency knew anything. Even though it was known, everyone knew Sanader was walking around asking people to do it, that's what witnesses say they're giving jobs to draw money for HDZ. She also told Jadranka Kosor that Ivo Sanader told her that the elections were won with more money under the table than above the table. A third of sorry, is there a third under the table or what? 2/3 said they were under the table. And never did Mrs. Kosor who participated in who was the president of HDZ who knew how her campaign was financed, was she prosecuted for nothing, as were your HDZ colleagues who sucked money, but everything went down on Ivo Sanader. Ivo Sanader is a bogeyman, and you're all not to blame for anything. Whether it's for political reasons or because objectively DORH concluded that you had nothing to do with it, so you don't have to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19473	Thank you very much. Now you mention a colleague of Calmet, he's from HDZ, and he's the subject of DORH processing. And just before you said that DORH... but I want to tell you that it is an independent institution and that I ask you to really not connect any political party now with this request that came from the DORH. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] My colleague Tušek explained very nicely why and how three weeks ago the Mandate-Immunity Commission stood by you because it was a practice so far, there is absolutely no reason for anyone to be here to go counter you in relation to all other representatives of the Croatian Parliament. We move on to further discussion, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19474	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor, Agent Pernar. I listened very carefully to your story of the Pharisees who were ashamed and left the scene when the adulterer was to be punished, but I think I thought a little bit that happened because there were no cell phones at the time. Because, by the way, at that time, there was a cell phone, then it might have been that the Supreme Pharisees sent a text to these lower Pharisees and called them to report, to call them for a verbal delicacy. And you know that's very embarrassing. It's very embarrassing to go to the top Pharisee report. He can tell you, you will no longer be on the list, he can tell you you will no longer sit on the monitoring board, no more your nephews and brothers will get a job in HEP and Croatian waters and that is why this historic situation has changed. So I think that these Pharisees carried cell phones in their pocket so that they would think very carefully whether they would leave that place or stay there because you know one thing is to have a conscience, and the other is to think about fear. It's different to think about what we're asked to do. It's another way of being a puppet and giving up yourself. So I think that this story of the Pharisees actually has an important change in historical circumstances that you should consider. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19475	The answer to my colleague Pernar's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19476	If Mr. Bunjac, however, you say perhaps that the Pharisee was there, perhaps he would have told them not to go there, stay there until the end. He'd call them his cell phone and say if he didn't, you'd be wearing sanctions. But what did the Pharisees of that time who were gathered around the harlot know? They knew that Jesus knew their hearts, that Jesus knew what they were doing, and that Jesus did not ask the question without reason, beware that Jesus asks people between the Pharisees and Jesus ’ time and you are very little difference. You seem to be appreciated in society, wearing great suits. You are as social elite as the Pharisees. However, when Jesus warned the Pharisees that their sins would be made known to them or that he knew them all, these Pharisees had more brains than you HDZ gentlemen did because they had retired because they had retired. But I see you, Mr. Tušak, and the rest of your family, the family that the DORH has called a criminal group of organizations, a family that wasn't tried... by individuals, but against the entire party as such. That crew of yours has no shame and continues with this circus and persists in being prosecuted by me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19477	No, you're being chased by the DORH as far as I understand. So it's not HDZ that's after you, it's DORH, so I'm asking you to clear this up and not mention it in the debates anymore because we're misleading the entire public. I don't think it's really right for the people sitting here. The next replica is distinguished counterpart Ivan Šipic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19478	Ha, Mr. Pernar, it's really amazing what you can make a show of, and it's especially amazing that your colleagues from this left spectrum are defending you in that part. You persistently, you persistently want to make us all a circus, so boldly insult your colleagues. I've already told you many times, I respect you and a lot of things I might agree with you in some parts, but the way you do it is scandalous, it's humiliating for this Supreme House. You can use me to know that I risked you telling me yours, but here you quote the Bible. Along the way, I'll tell you, I'm a graduate theologian who has nothing to do with what you're talking about. So you quote the Bible and compare yourself in one way with Jesus Christ, for which we, most of us in this country, are told that the good part is more than 80% God. You want to compare yourself in this way, and you interpret the Bible in such a humiliating way. Comparing with a woman in the Bible and the comparison is superior in the Bible, the parable is superior, but putting us in that context is below each level. One more thing. Mr. Stazic talks about morality and he gives you support, although I can't know him I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure, I can't do him, but it's very interesting that synergy between you and SDP lately, since the open one, you've given yourself the task of being dense and soulless to only talk about HDZ. We're talking about a little case here. Well, it's not some extreme case. By humiliating that case the other day, it was last week, by Mr. Culei, and you. Humiliating that case, too. [[Intruder President: Thank you, Mr. Šipic.]] This is beyond all levels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19479	You see, Mr. Šipic, how the parables of the Bible are read in their own way. You all realized that Mr. Pernar had identified himself with Jesus, and I had him identify with an adulterer. So perhaps now they will interpret in their replica what he, Jesus, or adulteress is.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19480	This is the Gospel this time if I am not mistaken by Matthew 23, which refers to me not only to the scribes and Pharisees of Jesus ’ day but also to you in HDZ. Verse 15 says: Woe unto you scribes and Pharisees of hypocrites, ye go about the sea and by land, that ye may take a follower; and when ye have made him a son of hell, ye shall make him twice worse than yourselves. Woe to you blind leaders. There you go. Thank you. That's all I have to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19481	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed colleague Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19482	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Pernar is simply amazing, and I would say incorrectly that you read the Bible to us here in the high house. Well, we're not stupid that we don't know how to read the Bible. Many of us here read the Bible only, as the vice president said, in a different way than you. The other thing, both vice president and colleague Tušek well and clearly explained to you the rules that you, colleague Pernar, should have learned from sitting here. As well as fellow Stazic knows that these are long, long-term rules and can't be applied like this now. Comrade Pernar, it didn't bother you like your colleagues said before, when the rules are on your stuff. Make a deal with yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19483	Thank you. The answer to my colleague Pernar's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19484	I tried to point out what the HDZ and their members did, so they weren't processed for it, and to process me, so I'll see how you have a desire for replication, I'll continue to read the Bible. He says to the Pharisee, just a little while, to say this: Blind leaders, follow the mosquito, and devour the camel. Namely, what was it? In Jesus ’ day, i.e. Jews are forbidden to eat unclean things. Among the unclean things are insects, and they include camels. And then if they drank water, they would drink through the gauze if by any chance a mosquito would not be in that water and they would not pollute themselves, but on the side, Jesus said, they devoured the camels. And now watch this! He said, "Woe unto you scribes and Pharisees who are hypocrites, clean the cup and the bowl from the outside, and inside are full of prey and greed. The blind to the Pharisee, cleanse first the inside of the cup, and let the outside be clean. Woe unto you, ye scribes and Pharisees, ye are like the graves of abundance. They look nice outside, so they're great, and inside they're full of dead bones and all kinds of dirt. That's what you outside people look just, and inside you're full of hypocrisy and lawlessness, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, but he warns, Jesus, also in the last verse: Snakes, a bed of guacamole, how you shall condemn hell. Therefore behold, I send unto you prophets and wise men and scribes. You will kill one of them and crucify others in your synagogues and persecute from city to city, so [[/Intruder Jandroković: Thank you. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19485	We're moving on with the club debate. First club representative of the SDSS Club and distinguished colleague Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19486	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, as the debate moves away, it seems to me that we are getting more and more out of hand and control. In fact, I certainly believe that this high house has no authority over any preacher or preacher, John Pernar. But we have certain obligations when Wednesday's a representative and Wednesday's the term of office. I will immediately say that this is not my controversy with the commission of mandate-immunity because it really did its job as prescribed by the law. But my controversy or debate concerns those who have initiated this kind of procedure and which has caused it to come to the Parliament. I want to talk about two things. How is it possible that one political activist, and today's representative Pernar, was a political activist, the Living Wall, who, in an apparent political action, who is known to us all leaves a mark or a message that is not in line with the protection of private property. That's quite true. But it's neither the first nor the last of that kind, and it's not broken, nor the window that didn't destroy the driver's paw, but it's done what many in this country do for various reasons whether they leave love messages, whether they illustrate, whether they leave messages of hate, message of belief or, as in this case, the word message of political nature. The one who made this kind of decision on proceedings against MP Pernar, under which the Mandate-Immunity Commission actually ignored this fact that this type of message should be treated differently. And the second question is, and this MP Pernar probably has the right, which is that we really don't know if it's a damage estimated at 1000 kuna, which is the minimum legal basis for the DORH to raise the application, was based on police reporting, by official duty. Is it really that bad? But it doesn't matter what I said. The important thing is that it's lost sight of an important fact in which people leave messages. In this case very clearly, in the context of the campaign, the protection of a kind of right for which the Living Wall is a group of Live Walls, now the Party Lives Wall and Agent Pernar convinced that it should defend and that it is the right to a home. Another thing I want to say is that what makes things a little more complicated is that every judicial institution like each one of us must be consistent and condescending in our own actions. That's not the case, unfortunately. Representative Pernar, at times when he did not perform as a preacher in this House, said there are countless graphites in our cities. Yes, it is. Among them are countless graphite who have been prevented from being punished more seriously than this one, which could be sanctioned by a colleague of Pernar, hate messages, messages of violence and messages of excelling ideas, ideologies that are criminal. From the U eardrum to the murder of a Serb, to the cowardly crosses, it's all by the schools, it's all in high-frequency places where people pass through. That doesn't bother anyone, the DORH, on official duty, doesn't run messages like that and in this case it triggers the message. I'd just like to tell my colleague Pernar, I don't think any party is involved in this matter that concerns you. I don't believe it because I don't see any reason. But what I see is the reason is, on the one hand, inconsistency and not consistency in our judicial practice in this case, the prosecution and the police, and on the other hand, the fact that you acted as political activists. And for this reason, the SDSS club believes it is necessary to raise our voice and warn the competent institutions that they are sending mature, established proposals to the Assembly to remove immunity. This one's not like that, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19487	Thank you. We have six replicas, the first distinguished colleague, Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19488	You were talking to a respected colleague about graphics with hate messages, yes, they're full of them, and we're witnessing that the DORH doesn't pursue such things. He's sending us here now a request to take off immunity as if he's challenging us. I'm sorry, this is just below the level for me that the DORH would have to act on. In this case, for the first time, we must really examine not automatically the decision but the justification of such a request. It's been easy for us so far and we could act automatically. Here, I have to ask myself what happened to these people, which they were in charge of sending in a request for immunity in the first place. But this is not the first time in the House, MPs ask such a question. The last time it was a colleague of Culej's HDZ club split up, President Plenkovic allegedly had to come here to intervene and calm them down and make them vote to take off their immunity. And it was that a colleague of Culei was only persecuted for vandalism, a man was breaking state property, doing damage, and the HDZ club doubted whether to remove his immunity. Today at Pernar, as far as I can see, with ease, no one rebelled against it, with ease they would remove his immunity. And I think this is the case that we have to ask DORH's motives seriously for the first time. And I'm not sure, I'm not sure they're following the instructions of political parties.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19489	Thank you very much. If this is questionable to you, some others were questioned last time. And from this presentation of yours, you're actually giving an alibi to those... No, no, you're giving an alibi to those last time. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You can't use your powers like that. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] I ask you to stop because you use the position of MPs in an inappropriate way and insinuate the people who are sitting here, who have been working on a practice that is old and now you're trying to make it a political problem. Here's your breach of the Rules of Procedure. The first is Gordan Maras pa Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19490	Mr. Vice President, you have injured the Rules of Procedure in several articles of 232, 236, 238. You are using the way you conduct the session, or you are not in a position to replicate with the MPs and act here as a mentor, as someone who will judge what is allowed and which is not originally to justify and explain the discussions of other MPs. If Mr. Ivan Pernar or Mr. Nenad Stazic thinks this is a political problem why can't he say that? You don't have a right, you have 50 and some HDZ deputies, so let people answer, let them say that's not true. And not that you as a leader, who should be neutral, who gives only a word and conducts a technical session, you speak and answer. Why is HDZ silent and HDZ advocates silent and HDZ Representatives' Club silent? Well, obviously there's something there.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19491	Thank you. So I am not justifying anyone's discussion but defending the principles imposed on this House and the practice that has existed so far. So I don't want to paralyze and defend anyone or any party or any representative, defend the principles on which this House rests years before you and before me. That's what this is about. Here's my colleague, Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19492	236th injure of the Rules of Procedure. So, Vice President, you're a representative like all of us, while you're Vice President of the House, if you need to discuss coming down, asking for someone else, and they're not there, they're not in the assembly, there's no one to replace you, go to your place, pick up the debate, pick up the replica, pick up the reply to the replica, and let's be even. You can't use your position as vice president of the Parliament and argue with me without answering your word. Excuse me, you abuse your position, you violate the integrity of this House, and you give one bad picture, one bad message that you are above us. You are here as representative as all of us who have chosen you unanimously to be vice president of the Parliament and to do this duty with dignity. Not that you're abusers of using it to polemize with other agents without reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19493	Thank you, Mr. Stazic. I remember you were the vice president about to follow your practice, at that level approximately. Thank you very much. Dear colleague Pernar of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19494	Mr. Jandrokovic, as well as Mr. Stazic, I would like to say that you have violated the 236th article of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19495	Namely, you have reached out to your colleague Pernar for forgiveness during the presentation of his distinguished colleague, Stazic. So I thought you were reacting to his exposure and that he said something.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19496	I'm reacting, sir, that no one here contests your right to express your position, that this is not political persecution, that this is not just a legal state doing its job, but don't do it with a pay phone like my colleague Stazic told you. Get down into the bench, and then you say that as a representative of the HDZ and not as chairing that you are performing as a mentor, and that is thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19497	So I'm not defending, I'm repeating once again the views of any representative or party, but I've been defending the principles this House has been representing for years. So that's my obligation as chairman. Don't be mad. We're moving on to replicas. Dear colleague Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19498	Thank you very much, Deputy President. Well, I wanted to say, in fact, that I don't think it's a good idea for a fellow representative in his presentation to question the DORH's decision to initiate proceedings against the MPs of Pernar, and here we are actually discussing the scale of this work that I don't think is our role, and in that way, in its debate, a fellow MP, Pupovac, has questioned the independence of the judicial authority. I think there's a debate here today about the rate of action that's not our job. The mandate-immunity commission, as the president himself said, acted in practice. Last time we removed the immunity of MP Culei, we could also discuss the measure of action that he should be tried for, and there would also be a lot of different opinions. Mr. Bauk, a colleague from the SDP himself, also said in the debate that the practice of the Croatian Parliament is that in cases where the DORH initiates the procedure, immunity is removed, and in the case of a private case that immunity is not removed. And I think that until we change that practice we should stick to and not get into discussions on the scale of things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19499	Thank you, too. The answer to the line, no, sorry wrong. Did you get that?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19500	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I am fully in agreement with you that we should maintain the rule that we do not have too much debate on the decisions of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. And I didn't answer to interrupt that practice, and I didn't report to challenge the decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, but I came forward for this reason to draw attention to the fact that this falls within the sphere of absurd and paradoxical actually things because it's very borderline and because it falls into a context that is not favourable to the one who launched the investigation and is not favourable to the one who set us in the context of political testimony and political action. That's what this is about. This isn't about hooliganism, this wasn't about intentional damage to other people's things, this wasn't about anything else. And for that reason, we have come forward, and our mission is as an agent to discuss such matters so that we can in some way improve legal and judicial practice. On several occasions, I took part in discussions with representatives of the judiciary who do not know what to do in some cases. They know here, and in cases of hate speech, threats on the Internet, graphics, they don't know what to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19501	Thank you. Dear colleague Žarko Tušek, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19502	Well, in fact, with a large part of my colleague Pupovac, I agree with your debate, and in general, if I'm going to replicate a few more times, and in that first line, I'm going to try to do a very balanced discussion on this subject at all, but here's colleague Pernar is politicizing, in some way suggesting to me personally, as to a man who, with that problem, has absolutely nothing to do with it. I also wanted to point out the part that my colleague pointed out which would actually mean changing practice, what would that mean? This would mean that the crime rate would be discussed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Would that mean that we are assessing the severity of certain crimes, i.e. Is that even done? It would seem to me to be a rude investment in the division of a trio of power that is in some way the basis of our constitutional legal order. And to further diversify this political debate over the entire discussion of my colleague Pernar, who is heading towards the indictment of both me and the Commission, and above all, I would like to make it clear here that the criminal application was filed by the police on 15 October 2015. So in the context of political responsibility, the first staff took over the SDP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19503	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19504	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My dear colleague, I do repeat once again, I do not think it is possible in this case to accuse any political option of either HDZ or SDP. This is about one questionable decision. Most of the things that my colleagues in the Living Wall did at that point were actually against the rules. A decision has been made to delegate someone and this has been made by the competent authority. They stood against such decisions. They did things that were against regulations, they intervened with the police, they were detained, and there was a lot of things. But they risked that kind of action to draw attention to something they consider unfair. And thanks to that, they came to the Parliament and it was a political message. As was probably the political message of writing the name of the group and party Living Wall at the time they were doing it. That's what I'm talking about. To you, well done, you have done your job in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the regulation. And let's not argue about that. What we're arguing about is the paradoxality of acting.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19505	Thank you. The next replica is distinguished counterpart Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19506	Dear fellow Pupovac, you have been trying to draw attention to the absurd and paradoxical situation in your speech on several occasions both in your replicas and in your reply to the replica and in your speech. And right now, and between you and your last words, last time we removed the immunity of a man from DORH's request, and there was no debate like this. Can we view it as the same person and those who did the same wish to draw attention to some kind of injustice? Also, one of us could interpret it as political activity as you said it would be. But I personally cannot accept this political activity to destroy some facade on the house, something that someone bloody created. I remember when I was on the battlefield in Face. Whenever a gorilla's house hurt my heart, I remembered how hard we were building it. And I think there's some things we need to figure out a little bit. You can't go to a person to insult, call, you can't go to someone's property to destroy and hide behind parliamentary immunity. If we have the courage to do so, then there's no need to retain parliamentary immunity. But I don't see much difference between one and the other. If the Parliament has taken the practice of removing immunity when requested by a state institution, then we do so and keep that practice. I don't see the need for this kind of debate over a case like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19507	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19508	If I'd been to the assembly at a time when immunity was being discussed last time I'd probably have said my opinion about it. I wasn't at the time. Now's not the time to discuss it. I don't think we should have two standards, two arches especially if it's the same thing. And I'm not saying it is and I don't want to open a debate about it. Those two things you've actually caused right now. The first thing is when there are public demonstrations and there's a terrorist act, this can be considered a kind of public demonstration, a group of people are gathered to protest something. Okay. And do you know that in this country, we still don't have a law to compensate for the damage done to people who do harm, damage to the locale, damage to the houses, we haven't had since '99. A year. A car bomb was detonated in front of the city chiefship. The state is no longer responsible for such things. He's not responsible for the damage of this species either. So, you've given me a cream for one topic that we need to discuss here in the interest of keeping property and health and people's lives. We don't have it regulated. I will not go back to the reasons and the context because it was a compensation for the compensation of the mining houses of the Serbian nationality, since then, until now everyone has been punished and unprotected. And the other thing, when you say that the political activation of this species, the political activation of this species is not directed against anyone but against the state. [[Intruder Jandroković: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19509	Time's up, I'm sorry. Next replica, dear colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19510	I would like to thank my dear colleague, Milorad Pupovac, for stepping into my defense, and I could close my eyes and say, so I will not argue with the HDZ people, I will not argue with those with whom I de facto formed power, I will not argue with those I hold the quorum, but the human conscience has instructed him, despite the fact that he is part of the ruling majority to show his opposition to this decision by the DORH, or that he actually opposes once after seeing him, and even by seeing many citizens of this country, political persecution. Because we haven't had this kind of damage in the House yet. So that's not what this is about, you're going to tell the HDZ gentlemen to object to Pupovac, you're doing the precedent here, but gentlemen are doing the precedent because this decision is precedent by itself. So I don't know if I stole five million kunas from the state budget, and then Milorad Pupovac says I'm against having his immunity removed, then we could say that, it's a precedent this isn't correct from Mr. Pupovac, etc. But he pointed out that the problem here is the very essence of the defendant's proposal. So this isn't about legal responsibility or I don't know what. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19511	There's no response to the replica. And the last replica of the esteemed colleague of Varda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19512	Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Pupovac. I agree with most of your presentations, but in this case, the Parliament has fallen into its own trap. We've fallen into our own trap. We are without actually great debates or even without debates as much as I followed the session of the Parliament as soon as the DORH or the court asked for the removal of immunity we raised our hands or you raised our hands. When it came to a private lawsuit, then the Parliament, without any legal basis other than its own decision or practice, rejected such demands. And now we can't get out of that trap until we change the rules of the game. I refer to Article 35. The Constitution, look, we say that we limit freedom of speech if we mention names, etc., etc. or Article 35. The constitution says when it comes to a private lawsuit to guarantee everyone respect and legal protection, his personal and family life, dignity, respect and honor. What about this Parliament practice when it comes to a private lawsuit, when it comes to this constitutional provision? We say that when his mandate ceases, let the private prosecutor press charges, and then another term of office, then another term of office, and another term of office, there is no longer a private prosecutor. So we should first solve the trap, and in this case we cannot solve it because we have a concrete proposal from the commission. I wouldn't question him. The commission was doing what it used to be, otherwise it would have turned into a courtroom. And Parliament is turning in this case into a court of law which is not good and does not protect the integrity of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19513	Thank you. A very interesting debate on which we have a replica of a colleague of the Pupovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19514	First, a respected colleague, I do not dispute and do not dispute the decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, could not have acted differently. The prey can discuss things as we try to discuss them. And when it comes to the difference between private and official duty, it is a practice not only in this House but also in other parliaments, and there is a war on which it is. If private lawsuits were accepted as grounds for abolishing immunity, then MPs would hardly be able to do their jobs. A limitation to acts prosecuted by official duty, in our opinion quite enough to do what needs to be done. There's something here that we think was meant to measure twice before it was sent to the Parliament and nothing else. And this is not controversy with the HDZ, nor with the commission, nor with this or with the case, but with what I can and what I can discuss because it's a border case which, on many elements, is paradoxical, absurd, and that's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19515	Thank you very much. Very interesting and important discussions that will certainly encourage us to approach these topics a little differently in the future because there is a really different approach to these topics in the future because it is also about the DORH itself as an institution in which we should trust, but at the same time, here we are already in two weeks two cases where big polemics have occurred. Obviously, it is a sensitive matter, so this is certainly something to think about, what needs to be discussed and solutions that will be acceptable for all to come back to one consensus so that we, like the legislator and the representative body, do not interfere with the work of the judicial authorities. Thank you very much. We're moving on to the next debate by the club of MPs. It's a respected colleague Furio Radin, a National Minority Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19516	Your Honor, Vice President, I'd like to proceed as we speak, if we should reconsider our relationship to the treatment of the institution of immunity. All those who took a stand, who attacked the commission, who worked on the tradition of this House, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, were wrong. They made a mistake, but good radio. Now we need to see how each one of us has a conscience to defend before him and his constituents. You're right, Mr. Vice President. Last time we broke one rule for the first time. We rebelled and I rebelled. This time we're also on the same page, if we understood each other last time, I'd separate that formal part of the debate from the content. In a substantive sense, everyone has the right to an opinion. It was formally until then that when it comes to the Penal Code and when it comes to the DORH's procedure to remove immunity. In this case, we can say that the case is repeated. Some have said that these are quite two different cases from the content aspect. From a formal point of view, maybe not. But I'm saying, the rule's already been broken once. I warned you we were breaking the rule last time. And the normal thing to do now is to turn into a circus if we don't access this problem in one systematic way in the near future. It's turning into everything. It turns out, colleague Pernar, when I listened to you for five, six minutes to quote the Bible, then there came to mind only one thing, that I was in a world, one country, and that there are differences between the church and the state, and that I would pray that this difference is respected in this temple of a world state called the Parliament, because otherwise I don't know how to approach the subject anymore. Someone will bring the Koran, someone will bring the Old Testament, someone New. You have little use to the New Testament argument, and little quote is that of the Old Testament. So I didn't, at some point I almost changed my mind about the subject I have to talk about by listening to you, but I'm not going to change. Why? I've reported on behalf of the club, and I'm reflecting the club's opinion on this subject, because regardless of what we're going to do for the second time, we're here in front of a problem of content nature which, I say, is kind of extreme and, as Pupovac said before, paradoxically. First of all, it's not a private lawsuit, it's a police lawsuit the DORH accepted. Why is Zagreb, my Pula, all cities are full of graphite. I don't mind your graphics, so to speak. The graphite bothers me like that. There is another way of expressing your opinion. We got a little out of the campaign run in Pompeii, and as you know, digs in Pompeii have shown that the pre-election campaign was conducted by graphites at the time, right? We've been a little off since then, but today, starting with something that we don't even know can be criminal, can it be the DORH thing because we don't know if it's anything 1000 kuna or 900 kuna, and I'd recommend to a state attorney to deal with such problems and see if there's a possible DORH leak in this, whether there's no politicization, politicization of the DORH himself on the subject at local level. Let it be seen a little bit, but I, my conscience tells me that I can't remove immunity, I can't vote to remove the immunity of a fellow member of parliament who, while he wasn't even a representative, wrote a graphite that wasn't offensive to a variety of other graphites, and wrote simply "Live Wall" on one dead wall. How to approach this problem rather than resisting or in a way to be restrained. Yes, for the second time in this House we will break one tradition. And yes, we will have to deal at all with the institution of immunity of the representatives who have been established in history. Why? In order to protect the representatives of the people in the Middle Ages, it passes from England, from the English Parliament to protect MPs in parliament from being persecuted and blocked in their work. Activism is such that it can also produce such cases as protest, expression of opinion. It's one expression of opinion in a way that this opinion was written on a wall and it was a reflection. So I can't, we can't, we National Minority Representatives, just because we're minority representatives, we can't deny the immunity of a colleague who did something as a civil society member protesting injustice. About the content part. And as for the pragmatic part, I'd like to warn you, all of you who are going to the local elections that Mr. Pernar is running an excellent election campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19517	We have three replicas. The first one's a distinguished colleague, Tušek.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19518	Dear Vice President. My colleague Furio Radin, a few words about practice. There is no ideal practice of fellow Radin, practice is kind of an optimum to put some kind of intensity in some frames and be at least partially satisfactory. There is no ideal practice of fellow Radin. But why do I think this practice is actually an optimal solution for the Croatian Parliament? On the trail of what Pupovac was saying, when we introduced the practice of removing immunity from private lawsuits, we would really make it impossible for MPs, realistically looking to do their job. And if we were to define this practice now that at the request of the state's attorney's office we wouldn't take off our immunity, then we would make it impossible for them to do their job. Now, look at the other situation, one very important thing to say, and what if we were to derivate that practice? Then it would happen that the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament each time individually decides on someone's immunity. And what kind of bang would that be? So that the political majority or political power can live up to a political minority and an individual who is in a political minority, you understand? ... No, it's not a colleague of Pernar's, it's not that at all. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm talking to you about very important things where we could put ourselves in a position if we were to discuss each case individually, so that someone who is in the political majority's power could play with the constitutional category of immunity of the representatives of the political minority. That's why this practice is optimal, and that's why I would ask you and also ask that, regardless of what a slippery subject is, which is indeed the weight of this crime, I find that the crime that my colleague Pernar did on a private lawsuit is much more difficult than this. I would ask you to try to follow practice anyway, because we're just going to separate things and then dear God can't help it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19519	Thank you. Furio Radin, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19520	I'll repeat very summed up what I said before. My conscience doesn't allow such a person, for such under quotes, to be a criminal vote to confiscate the immunity of my colleague, Pernar. No, I won't, I think you did the job you were supposed to do, I mean it, I don't dispute it. You did the job right. I, however, must vote on my conscience, after your work is done. My conscience tells me that for such a, for writing graphite, someone should not be prosecuted by a state's attorney and should not be convicted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19521	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19522	Dear colleague Radin, I'm a little surprised right now. I would advise you to look at the footage of your reaction from last week when you also striped at the request of the DORH immunity where you heroically washed us, among other things, because I just as you said voted on your conscience. You've given me criticism, I don't intend to give you criticism. But exactly what Mr. Tušek said if practice is one thing then we stick to that practice. And you say that all the time, and now you won't because your conscience isn't. I don't see that, I really don't see the difference. I personally believe and that is why I voted as I voted that what they did, for which the State's Attorney's Office asked for the removal of immunity that they did the same, was thus expressing their political opinion. You are now an advocate of not meeting the state institution's request. And you're just saying that your conscience doesn't allow it. And at the same time a week ago, you were on the same subject just as hard as you did, and you washed us well. And washed us who thought differently because we expressed our opinion in the most democratic way here in the Croatian Parliament where we were chosen by the will of our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19523	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Furio Radin will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19524	That time, a single rule was broken in Parliament's history, a single tradition broke. That's what you were responsible for, not you, all those who voted in the same way as you. And now, and you're still convinced that you did well, right? Are you sure you did the right thing? Well, then you should be the last to get up and complain about something to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19525	Please, we won't go out of the bath. The next replica and the last replica is the esteemed representative of Steve Cule. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19526	Dear Vice President, I'm very sorry our colleague Pernar is going to be taken by immunity in one of these cases. I would personally charge him for painting and a done deal. But I'm surprised that the representatives of the national minorities, especially Mr Furio, who performed so harshly when he took away my immunity, didn't seem at all appropriate to see at all what my offense was, what did I do that day, did I do anything? What I'm about to prove in court, I didn't touch a record that day, I didn't touch a cop, I didn't do anything, but it's a simple mounted court-political process that was set up by Ranko Ostojic and some of the people in the judiciary who had questioned me at all for four hours that day and discussed how they would charge me because they didn't have a single article to charge me. They say hate, and speaking to national minorities, there's nothing about hate speech. That's why it's important that I go to that court and prove that I'm not guilty. One such trial wanted to get rid of all the Vukovars, all the defenders, especially in the elections. That's the only reason I don't intend to defend myself here, and I've had enough of what I've seen in these two cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19527	Thank you. The esteemed representative Furio Radin will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19528	Mr. Culey, I told you both now and from the pay phone nothing personal about that case, I didn't even speak back then, I just noticed that you'd split up in the vote. I wasn't talking about you that time. You may have made a mistake, I wasn't talking about you, because if I were talking about you, I'd talk about you differently. I have respect for some things, and I would never accuse anyone of doing anything from both his life experience and his beliefs. I didn't speak last time, I was talking, so personally, I was only talking about you being divided into a vote as it is going to be, and this time we'll split up also in the vote. But I don't see why you always turn on us from the national minorities, you always find us for replicas. So give it some time and turn around to others. You always catch us in your replicas. I have nothing personal against you, don't you have anything personal against us please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19529	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the honourable representative of Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19530	Ladies and gentlemen, as this debate goes on, as it continues, it becomes more and more obvious that it is a truly banal and miserable thing. And it's impossible not to ask yourself about motives because a man said in a movie that spoke about television he said most people when he saw the news were wondering who, what and where? But the key thing is the question is why, why is there news going on, why is something showing up and not something? Most people watch who, what and where but they don't wonder why? I'm going to ask that particular question here, why? What are the motives, what is the meaning of this criminal process? Let's start assuming that I am guilty, let's assume that I will be convicted because I have no doubt in fact that we will condemn the court. So unlike Mr. Culey, he claims he's innocent, that he's being set up and that he will defend himself in court that the truth is on his side. In my case I do not believe that I will be able to defend myself, I do not believe that anyone at all interested in what I have to say in my defense and in fact the meaning of this process itself which the DORH intends to lead is not to determine whether I am guilty or not, or the trial because the outcome of the trial is known before only the trial began which will say that the aim of this removal of immunity is to rule against me by the court. And for that reason, I have asked, or I appeal to the conscience of the representatives present to vote against the removal of immunity. Some will say here it is about offended practice, as it must be and we are so used to doing etc. But ask yourself, is this case equal to all others, why are so many people reporting for debates? What are all these people reporting for participation in the debate? Why so many replicas, why so many questions? It's logical, obviously and clear to everyone who observes this is my case that represents precedent and that's precisely because the precedent is to say no, and here's why. Because tomorrow on similar structures, charges will be filed against other agents. The next day, any one of you could be prosecuted, or not processed, because he has done something objectively wrong, but because he is objectively inadequate, he is objectively unsuitable. You cannot deny your role or the way you managed the state. You can't deny that I stood up to such a way of managing the state and you can't deny that at a time when I am, or while you are in power, and I'm in opposition to this process running. Someone from the pay phone said if I wasn't wrong or the bench that DORH was an impartial body. Well, at this point, I have a need to point out my experience with Domagoj Margetic as an investigative journalist. What did he do? He says Ivane Pernar for years I wrote about the crime that Ivo Sanader did and his flocks in HDZ for years. I wrote about the Hypo affair 10 years before the topic came to the DORH's order, ten years ago. That's why I got fired, I couldn't find a new job, and I had threats. Everyone called me a lunatic, a clown, a rickety, etc. But at some point what happened? At one point, Jadranka Kosor decided that Ivo Sanader should be processed, that she would politically eliminate him and say what was happening. At that point, they call me to talk in the DORH and they say they told me I don't remember Bajic or Cvitan, one of them. Mr. Margetić, we know what you know, i.e. that you know something about it. Please help us. So, in normal social order, first things first, i.e. in a normal judicial process. First witnesses and evidence appear, and then goes with the prosecution of the defendants. In this case Sanader first decided to go and process the man, and then they went to look for witnesses and evidence. And what did Margette do then? Margetic started mentioning the other names that were related to the cash extraction case? And at that point, the attorney general asks him, Mr. Margetic, can you only narrow this down to Sanader? In other words, the other defendants, or the other defendants, are not interested in us. We're only interested in Mr. Ivo Sanader. The reason why the DORH only interests Mr Ivo Sanader is that for political reasons it was going to be eliminated, and later they found themselves a lawyer. And there was no desire for the rest of the team to be processed. Why? Because it wasn't there, it wasn't a classic legal process, it was a political process. For the same reasons and with the same motives only Evey Sanader was tried, and not all other people around him from the top of HDZ who shared the money with him. 'Cause look, imagine I'm the head of a criminal organization, and all the MPs are my associates. And if I were giving the directives here to Mrs Sabini Glasovac, let Sabina draw a million kunas from the Croatian highways. Or Mr. Bulj please from the county roads of your county give us 200 000 kunas or Mr. Tušak please from the INA let's say for FIMI Media let's say 3 million kunas or Mr. Lackovic from Croatia insurance and get to the trial and you all tell us so Ivan Pernar told us that we are doing it. And you all suddenly stop being the defendants. In any case, where a criminal organization is being tried, a criminal group is being tried by all its members who have been involved in crime, not everyone says I'm just doing what my boss was doing to me, and therefore they're all abolized by guilt. And finally, as the judiciary is independent, as the most impartially says in the final decision of the Constitutional Court, that despite all the evidence, all witnesses, the confessions involved means the cashier who already, who took the money and distributed that money, etc. The verdict falls. You'll say the verdict has fallen for legal reasons. Whom do you HDZ people fool? And someone said, or asked, so how could he be in the Constitutional Court a man who, who he admitted to taking money, etc. Well, the point is that at the highest level of the judicial authorities, compromised people are created, because compromised people can be blackmailed, you can tell them if you don't make the judgment we expect you'll be prosecuted tomorrow, you'll be in the place of the judge. In this way, our justice system that is not independent, which is not impartial, and which means, in my case, we see it processing me who is fighting crime committed and committed by HDZ, and on the other hand, all the crime that HDZ has committed and committed abolized and alibis. For this reason, I call once again on all fellow MPs to have consciences, not to participate in this legal farce whose aim is not to demonstrate that there is a legal state, that they are all equal before the law, and so are the representatives, and that they should also answer if the law violates already the experience of dissidents, people who think otherwise, of people who do not agree to blackmail, bribery and other methods of coercion that unfortunately exist in the political world and who, at the end of the day, have been applying for years, or decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19531	Thank you very much. We have a whole series of replicas on your exhibit. First came the Honorable Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19532	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ivan, if we don't remove your immunity these three defendants will go to court and it will turn out that you betrayed them. Mr. Culey last time called on agents to take off his immunity so he could be with his colleagues who were charged with it. A trial that would be for you and three of the defendants would be more media attention if you were with them than if you weren't with them. Therefore, call on these MPs to remove your immunity, not to leave these other three anonymitys, two media isolations, and I think it's better to prove your innocence in court along with your fellow activists than, and now you've already got enough media attention on your case than to break a principle that's been going on for many years, and this case let all the colleagues who have the dilemma debate here when the attorney general comes. That's my suggestion. And to his clubmates who have dilemmas he wants to vote against, or he won't let them have the courage, and then he can stand up to the attorney general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19533	Thank you. The honourable representative, Ivan Pernar, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19534	Mr. Honorable Representative Arsen Bauk. I'm not trying to escrow responsibility here in a way that my colleagues are being processed, and I'm not. There's something else I want to point out here. When Mr. Marijan Hanžekovic was visiting Sunday at 2pm, he said that Mr. Milan Bancic was burdened with not even a violation. In the case of this mapping it is a violation against the municipal order committed by the city of Zagreb, it is a violation, not a criminal offence. And what I want is for the DORH to drop this indictment, not that I'm proving my innocence, and instead of this monstrosity, mounted and constructed criminal charge to make a criminal complaint and let the court be. Then I won't even need to take off my immunity, I don't know if you know it. So immunity only protects me from committing crimes against the crimes he committed doesn't protect me. And then I'd be convicted, the damage would eventually be settled, and I'd go along with my colleagues to court, etc. But to claim that I, for God's sakes of solidarity with my colleagues, should agree to such a humiliating act, because what this is is rather a humiliation if immunity is removed for such reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19535	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19536	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague. I've been thinking a little bit, so we actually have a few million perpetrators in Croatia. Namely, I don't know if there's a building in Zagreb that doesn't have graphite, I don't know if there's any means of public transportation without graphite, I don't know if there's a student, student bench without graphite, forgive me for not knowing if there's a toilet without graphite, and that's why I believe about a few million, ten million graphite so I just found out during this debate, so all the perpetrators of the crime. So when someone writes Ivo loves Marica, he actually committed a crime. I thought maybe it was just a violation that could end with some kind of oral warning possibly written. Now I have to admit that for the first time I've opened my eyes and realized that this is a serious crime that you might lose immunity for, and I'm wondering what's next. Whether or not the representatives would be sent to The Hague for writing graphics, perhaps to international courts, because we saw that some parties who say it was just a matter of law, were not able to protect their own members in this respect, and they were more than happy to transmit them there. Well, I repeat once again, this time I've learned something, and I'm going to think deeply about the consequences of what's happened today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19537	Thank you very much. The honourable representative, Ivan Pernar, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19538	Thank you, Chairman. Well, yeah, well, my colleague Bunjac turns out that all the people who ever painted the graphs didn't actually commit a violation against the municipal order, but a felony. And the question arises, is it possible that this I'm going to say a violation so serious that it goes into the criminal process, that it goes to removing immunity, that the resources of this country are being spent instead of chasing real crime because look, I'm not the one who ruined this country by writing graphite, there are no problems in this country as a result of my alleged vandalism, but are the cause of problems in our country because the massacre of the state's cash register, the massacre of the National Bank's government policy, where it works as a currency, where there's no money for interest where credits can't be returned, where we're all selling out the whole country, etc., and instead of discussing how we're dealing with problems in our country, how to really deal with real crime, we're here already if we don't cheat more than an hour at what we're discussing a farce, one nonsense for which today is responsible DORH is now because he's sent this crazy proposal, but if the Assembly accepts today's criminality is going to take it's true and we can's true, and we'll find the reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19539	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Steve Cule. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Next came the esteemed representative Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19540	Thank you very much. Agent Pernar, you are a member of this honorable House and should not hide behind the removal or setting of immunity. I think you need to defend this before the court whether it's a felony or a felony, you'll handle it there. But if you've been exposed politically and you've become the target of many and many circles, especially the interesting and good part of HDZ, it's a fact. Because with your special performance, you're breaking the truth. And of course you can't paint on other people's facades, you can't even paint on my facade and you need to be sanctioned for that. I don't think that's controversial. But I think it should go in some order and some weight. That's what I want to talk to you about. That's what accumulates dissatisfaction with justice. If someone is sitting in this House and if that man has blacked out millions and millions of kunas, I think it's a priority. If he pushed himself into the Parliament ten years ago to protect himself from persecution and to continue with such work, then I think there's some order to be respected. That's what I'm saying and I'm honking in this House at least ten times. Everyone's got all the papers and evidence, but no one's twitching. And that's the farce. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19541	The honourable representative, Ivan Pernar, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19542	Thank you, dear colleague of the SDP. You made a great point and you said that it wasn't really a disputed prosecution itself. I'd be willing to say right now, guys, let's stop this debate. Take off my immunity. I'm ready for trial, I'm going there to face the charges and so on, on one condition, that before me the DORH prosecutes all those whose criminal records stand and for more than ten years in drawers, those who have done immeasurably greater damage to a complete society and so on, but what? Their criminal charges collect dust and cobwebs in drawers, and the application against me is drawn to the surface with express speed and processes. So, here is not only the problem that the crime that I'm being handed over is actually in the sphere of offense, which is what I'm saying today, not that it's insignificant, not that it's politically motivated, but that serious crimes are not sanctioned. They don't sanction. Their perpetrators are hiding, responsible for them are being protected by those same institutions that their HDZ colleagues claim to be impartial, to treat everyone equally, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not fool ourselves. We all know that the DORH is not impartial, that it is a body that, I think, is impartial in the case of two anonymous persons then it is impartial, but when it comes to a political power and someone who has opposed a political power, then it is clear whose side the DORH represents. And it seems to me that in this case, I am being prosecuted because it is in HDZ's power. It's my guess that the Living Wall is in power, that I'm a representative of the Living Wall, that Dinko Cwitan wouldn't have thought to put this circus on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19543	The next replica is the respected MPs Sabine Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19544	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Pernar, I don't think you should be afraid of taking off your immunity. I think even in this case you should take it stoically. I personally respect the presumption of innocence, and I am a legalist and also in this part of the parliamentary practice and the Mandate-Immunity Commission, as well as the Parliament, that when the requests came from the DORH that they were in principle met. However, I think it is important that you opened the question of Orwell’s “all animals are equal, just some are more equal than others, ” because you did mention here in one context even me and that absurde, in fact, so on. An effort to raise funds from the state budget, so you made a joke and said that you told me to get the money out of HAC, that tomorrow I could justify myself and wash it just because it's your fault or in that case Eve Sanader. You see, we have one such case where it really happened, where we have a legitimate charge of the mayor of the city from which I come from, Bozidar Calmete, who hasn't drawn on walls and painted graphite, but that's why he painted the tunnels three times, and I see that indictment is actually both powerless and lawless waiting for years, for years, for years to come to some end and to the beginning of his court procedure, and never in the Parliament during that period, although Mr. Mayor was on several occasions a parliamentary representative, on the agenda of the Mandate-Immunity Commission came to the question of removing his immunity. I think these are the things that we need to talk about, these are the things that we need to talk about here and here when we discuss the work of the State's Attorney's office, but my message to you is, I'm not getting into whether the process is politically mounted or not, and I think you need to take it stoically, that you have nothing to be afraid of, but that you need to warn about these things and that you're going to have support and even me, yes. Because being Kalmeta and being you in this case for me in terms of damage to the Croatian budget and for the Croatian state is by no means the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19545	Thank you. The honourable representative, Ivan Pernar, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19546	Dear fellow Glasovac, little by little we are approaching the core of the whole story and the core of the whole story is called hypocrites. I'll read you gentlemen from Wikipedia the definition of hypocritical, it reads like this. Hypocrisis, hypocrisis or hypocrisis is a human trait in which individual or group, here we can say about one group is that they keep certain beliefs, standards, quality, virtues, behaviors, values or other characteristics and in fact systematically violate them. So that's the group of people talking about patriotism, credibility, honesty to the rule of law, not the bias of the DORH, etc. It is an act that condemns or calls for the condemnation of another while a critic is guilty of what he condemns the other. In this case, I would even say in the case of tunnel painting, it was a far greater damage and it was never taken off by Mr. Calmeta's immunity. Keep an eye out, and the practice of doing some of the actions that these individuals or groups are explicitly opposed to and openly criticized. So they claim this isn't a political process, this isn't a political installation, this is evidence of impartiality, etc. Two-faced is therefore not following those qualities that a person or group openly preaches says. It denotes immoral behavior that makes a person different from what he is in reality. So the HDZ gentlemen claim we're fighters for honesty, for legal institutions to do their job, etc. And now watch this, the etemological word hypocrisis comes from the Greek word hypocrisis which means acting, jealousy, cowardice and so forth. The hypocrit in ancient Greece was the term for an actor, or person who deliberately deceives others. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the HDZ, that's what you do.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19547	Thank you. Now here's something else you've enlightened us with, first religiously, now Wikipedia. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19548	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Pernar, you've essentially put in front of all of us here a big dilemma about how to behave in situations that have become common practice in the past because you've warned of one indifference and injustice. And I justifiably create the same revolt that some people have been avoiding the face of justice for years, they've taken huge money, we see them walking around town in expensive departments, driving the highest cars, and not telling them everything else, and nothing seems to shake their hand like they're fucking alive, to be decent, I'd say otherwise if I wasn't here in the assembly. So on that side, I understand the revolt of both yours and mine and thousands of people who are watching and listening because they can't believe that they're raising someone in that way at the speed of the procedure because of the acts that are basically banal, drawing graphites. Although I don't support painting other people's facades, and I honestly think that in this case, it was meant to be done in a way that the DORH would approach you and these two colleagues to settle the damage and move on. You will continue your political work and the DORH will work and hopefully do a more serious job and will sanction all those people who need to be sanctioned. So fear neither for our conscience nor for my own or our spine. I'm going to stand very openly towards Mr. Cvitan when he gets here and I'm wondering if this expense he's put in and the proceedings and the trials and all that's justifying this all that's happening right now. So for the damages of 500 kuna that you could settle to the owner of the building, does this all come together, what is the efficiency of that judiciary, that state's attorney, when it deals with it? Let them deal with Calmett, Kirina and the company, let them do it, it's their job.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19549	Dear Representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19550	Mr. Maras, thank you for the words of encouragement, but if you won't vote against it at the moment of my removal of immunity, your words of support mean nothing to me. I'm just going to tell you that I'm an agent in this House, that you're in my shoes and I would vote without thinking about taking off your immunity because it's visible from the plane that for the enormous damages of the indictments don't get up and immunitys don't come off and for the minors things are being processed, raised and even sought, so it's going to be the parliamentary representative who belongs to the opposition. That I am a member of the HDZ, that I have listened to what Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic's case and that I am not in conflict with other HDZ colleagues and that in such frameworks I have been charged against then I could not say I don't know you're setting this up for me, that. However, when it comes to the fact that the institution under political authority means by the government, that is, the party in power is being prosecuted for the leniency of the opposition member while at the same time protecting members of that party who are in power from prosecution, we cannot qualify this as a criminal persecution in such frameworks. I'll just say that when their colleagues from HDZ took money from black funds, when they signed by hand that they took thousands of kunas and none of them were processed until today and they knew where that money came from, they admitted that they were taking it is equal to zero. The responsibility of ladies and gentlemen equals zero. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19551	Thank you. The next individual debate is the distinguished representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19552	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The Croatian country of absurdity or absordist is the fact that the State's Attorney's Office is looking for graphite drawing essentially as a criminal offence, essentially it's the State's Attorney's office to investigate in a way that some damage is written, it's not some kind of crime now. And that's why Ivan Pernar doesn't need to be afraid I'm not going to be like some fellow parliamentary representatives now to talk praises about you, or about myself. But the fact is that the state's attorney's office has done very little in the numerous robberies that took place in the Republic of Croatia. Well, I'll be here soon, too, because for the first time in my life, I have the opportunity to face a state attorney here on the basis of my only criminal charges that I've set up for the sake of the disappearance of assets in the year 91 for the weapons of the Cetina area which today these people create their empires. So we have numerous examples in history that are a crime crime. This was to be done by the State Attorney's Office and this is what the Constitution gives this autonomy, resulting from the Constitution so much weight that the State's Attorney's Office is dealing with this. However, as an absurd here, Mr. Pernar often attacks Mr. Tušek, and for me he just carried out the procedure of something they sent here. However, I personally had a number of activities in my activistism in my area of locality, and I had a number of misappropriations of other various and criminal activities that I was in court and I wasn't afraid of, in all my defenses. e.g. You have a long war ferolegure factory where huge industrial waste is very dangerous, they wanted to delay in one mining trailed along the Cetina River across certain structures in the Ministry of the Environment, a variety of waste mafias to poison Cetina itself. And they didn't care because the huge money was about that dump. I personally objected to that despite being brought into an informed conversation, and I was not afraid at all. I personally hired all those people to oppose it because Cetina River is a drinking water that feeds over half a million people in central Dalmatia. I think what's been said a couple of times and it's repeated that the Bear Dog, the Little Dog Bear, arrives on the bench, and they're big ones just walking around and that's a fact, it's an undisputed fact that needs to be made public here. Well, I can't imagine how fast this is a reaction from the State's Attorney's Office, but it needs to be given a medal, here are the presidents of the Republic to give the order that they are to these leprosy things that are not hierarchically complex, because the Croatian state of fact has been robbed in privatisation and war profits, that the bagatella things are quickly reacted to by the State's Attorney's office and the judiciary. However, in those things where our people lost, where companies were essentially robbed, privatized companies illegally see this from the audit report, findings of audits that were that 95% privatisation was essentially illegal, illegal. It's still in the air. And of course the people don't believe in the institutions of the DORH, the State's Attorney's office doesn't believe in the judiciary, of course there have been doubts. Well, it's funny that in the Supreme Court we have those who present themselves with a false name and he, pardon the Constitutional Court, and for drawing graphite, I personally do politics, activism, hundreds and thousands of flyers I've glued to and posters, and I may have gone somewhere wrong. So let's raise a hand here that was a political activist who didn't draw graphs from us here. Let's be clear, I did, I glued posters, I did, and I'm not ashamed. And again, let someone else raise their hand that he didn't stick the posters. There's very few of us. Whoever was engaged in true activism and some kind of political action to push his idea through. Of course we don't have to justify it now. We have to draw the whole building. But it is a fact that this is so exaggerating and this is the fact that Croatia is absurd, absurd in terms of justice, DORH and other very important segments where institutions must strengthen. You can see that on this example. Because of the graphite, we have to discuss it here today. But the fact is also that people who don't have parliamentary immunity because of it are in court today or tomorrow because of these lewd things. I personally believe that this is a shame of the State's Attorney's Office to raise the tensions of political in society in this way, but it does well to open their eyes obviously that they prefer to do so. They prefer to deal with some basic things rather than to engage with those who today have empires, in fact, who today manage media space, and business space, import lobbys, but all this is clear and everything is visible because of that society is there di. I also strongly condemn the work of the State Attorney's Office for the criteria of selectivity in a number of criminal acts, and especially where the great damage has been done by the Republic of Croatia and where, in absurd matters, they show their strength and power at both local and national levels. I personally have a number of companies in my neighborhood. I'll be sick of the car ride, Sinj. I personally filed criminal charges. Here is a colleague, Ranko Ostojić, who was also a minister and is familiar with the case. Absolutely no one cares what it was like to go to the end of the Dalmatian factory where 3,000 people worked. So, I'm talking micro in my Sinjo. Those who didn't have five kunas in their pocket, five kunas, five dinars then. If they hadn't, they'd have half the city today. Maybe they got people on the lott, maybe they did. But the fact is that something went into the hands of individuals what was common, and surely in the 1990s, it wasn't going to die for it. And many of those who have laid down their lives. Once again, I strongly condemn the unfair, inconsistencies of the State's Attorney's Office, and in particular on the issue of... This debate, on the subject, means some kind of shop up to millions of dollars worth of damage. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No one mentions these and nobody mentions them down here. Mr. Ivan Pernar is at least famous right now, so we're talking about it. But many people today respond because of very small things, and of course the law must be respected. But those who brought Croatia to the bottom walk free and that's the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19553	Thank you. And we have a few replicas for your exposure. He's the first of his distinguished representatives, Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19554	Thank you very much, Mr. Bull. In your debate which, ha said man has nothing to complain about other than not being able to talk in that way and being in a position to change things. So you're the government. I don't know if you're aware of that at all. You're the government in this country, you have responsibility and you can't talk now, you can call people for this, what, import lobby, boss, water industry. Change things! Show it how different you are and how you behave differently. Perhaps personally you do, but unfortunately we see the same sprinkles with you and in your environment. I don't know if you know that an investigation has been launched in the city of Zagreb, i.e. one case against the mayor of the city of Zagreb, where he was caught while he was on the phone to adjust the competition for one of his acquaintances in order to get a job in the city administration. What is the difference between that and this case that you made in Croatian waters? Not at all. So, if someone told Minister Dobrovic we have a good boy from the Most, hire him there, but you have to adapt the Statute of Croatian Waters. If it was motivation, then the same person who told Mr. Dobrovic did the crime. So the procedure is the same. What I'm trying to tell you and what I'm supporting you for, don't just talk, try to change it. Unfortunately, these actions in Croatian waters bring you in and discredit you and people no longer believe you. So you can talk like this, but if you act different, then no one will believe you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19555	Thank you. They will answer the distinguished Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19556	I know you have experience, you've been in power, and you've really been back to being one of the best ministers since the 1990s. But I'm really not a congressman on the click. I am because of you and those in the Assembly who have worked when they are in opposition to click one, when they are in power click two. If it were the other way around, you'd be talking like I'm not like that, no matter what. You can follow my behavior and my vote. And as for the problems in Croatian waters, as for the problems of Croatian waters, Mr. Maras, I have an independent list at local level, I have two council members who do not work highly educated. You can see in my family who works, who doesn't. But it really doesn't happen locally in the SDP. I could list it for you right now. From where I live, where they've gone, to which state institutions can name you freely, you could have made it public. Therefore, I am told by those who have been in power in executive power by us who are here, so here's 7.8 months effectively, perhaps 4, 5 because you know what it was just you can't talk about lately, mainly Ivan Pernar so you don't happen to be on Facebook. I know how to criticize and praise him. It doesn't mean anything to me. I was an activist long before Mr. Ivan Pernar and those younger colleagues. The MP must think with his own head, not be on the click of the opposition... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19557	Thank you. The esteemed representative has raised, Maras has raised the breach of the Rules of Procedure. What's the point of injury?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19558	Article 238 of verse 5 has been injured. Here's how you can find it, so read it yourself. So, on that side, what I said was hurt. Because Mr. Bully in his winding style shares lessons like what, who does what, and says that someone's on click one, on click two. Look, if you click one, click two, then you're on click one. And if you can justify best man's job in the water in a way that's your boy from MOST good, then you're on click one. You are Mr. Bull on click one here in the assembly hall where you explain how big a moralist you are, and two of you are where no one sees you, where you work in a way that you hire best men. You are click one, click two, not me. Click one, one big moralist here, and click two when the cameras are shut down as far away as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19559	I estimate there's no injured article 238, and that's no offense. The next replica is the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19560	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Bull. You said one thing very well, and it is that removing immunity to Ivan Pernar represents removing immunity from all Croatian citizens because today this case symbolizes all of them. If Ivan Pernar, who is a parliamentary representative and, as you said, a public presence, is unable to protect himself from writing graphite from which we are going to be objective damage to 100 kunas because here I am going to cover both these two graphites on my cost in the knowledge of how much it costs, I know that I paint my entire room will cost me 70, 80 kuna, let alone about 20cm of inscriptions. If it cannot be protected, the message to Croatian citizens is clear, none of you are protected, you are all being hunted, they can accuse you whenever they want, they can persecute you whenever they want. If Pernar fell and all of you fell. And in this second part where you amnesty Mr. Tušek I have to tell you that today there is no longer one man who represents evil in society but today there is a system in which thousands of people each represent only one small wheel and since those who participate in the system think that they are not the ones who are responsible for what they seem to be. So it was your defense I don't know you probably heard about the Adolf case... who deported half a million Jews to camps from Hungary, he said I didn't kill anyone with my own hands. Yes, he did not kill, but regardless, he was justly sentenced to death because he was very much involved in it. Therefore, I think that all those who raise their hands to take off their immunity and participate in the dirty actions of the DORH.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19561	Thank you very much. The following came to an answer, the esteemed representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19562	It doesn't take so much right now... to now Ivan Pernar... to the whole nation. Of course, the problem now is if he remains immune to three colleagues who were with him or two, it doesn't matter, who took out posters or graphs of political messages, maybe there's now some injustice. But in general, when we look at it in general, it means I've personally been on a number of occasions, and I've been sad, accused, brought in, for information talks I've been through, so I know when I didn't have any immunity, I was just an ordinary citizen and I think there should be some kind of public order. But there are no priorities. The Croatian state someone I repeat did not have five kunas in their pocket only got on the lot or made a fair profit, it is now another thing, if people are proven it is ok. But someone who hasn't dealt with entrepreneurship or had an entrepreneurial spirit that they're now the richest people it's amazing. So the simple principle of state's attorneyship and justice is unequal, unfair and unfair to the citizen. Every citizen under the Constitution must be equal in all matters, and in particular in this judicial case. The legal protection that protects both the Constitution and the order. So the uncertainty of every citizen is this when the little bear, the bear dog, arrived at court because he barked. And in Croatia wherever you bury crime, wherever we bury. The richest and most prospective geo-strategic state in this part of Europe and it is wider Croatia, and look where you brought it. I'm particularly fond of these former ministers when they boldly report trying to sneak in to other parliamentary deputies so they wouldn't accidentally criticise them to stay high in the ratings. ...only the problem of the citizens here is the biggest... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19563	Thank you very much. The next call came a distinguished representative of Stevo Culej. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19564	Your Honor. Comrade Bulj, you're absolutely right and I support everything you've said that our country has been networked by organizations that have robbed and robbed this people. But I want to draw attention here to my young colleague Pernar, who I especially like. I'm glad there's a Pernar here and he can act like this in public and call it. But if you're going to call your colleague Pernar, then please take a look at the left and the right. All those on the left who are wisely silent and support you, and they were once on your right, as we start with Milanovic, their party president. And he was once on this side and with us and many so have been since '91. the years when they sensed that the situation in Croatia had changed and then they quickly had to tear up their books or hide them for God's sake they shouldn't have gone to HDZ. And the others, they are the ones who lay low and kept quiet so that they can see that Croatia will pass in the Homeland War. I see that you are very uninformed about at least the issue of the Homeland War and the enemy who attacked us, who defended Croatia. I'll certainly be happy to explain it to myself in a free period of time not right now, but I'd like you to do a little work on that side, find yourself some orientations, goals, so you can take this whole assembly out of the way. Because there are thousands and thousands of honest members among the HDZ people you call, and more of those who died and left their bones from Vukovar to Dubrovnik so that you would sit here right now and not spit on them, among other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19565	Comrade Culey, you were supposed to be replicating colleagues to Bulya, not colleagues to Pernar. I'm asking you nicely, we've already gone well in the third hour of the discussion on this. So, I'm telling you... No, no, we can talk about it for hours, so I guess that's the most important thing in this country. [[/The intrusion speaker doesn't understand.]] However, we must speak as the Rules of Procedure tell us. Therefore, I ask you to respond to the replica of the one who spoke and to talk about the subject. Here's what my colleague Bull will say to whom you haven't actually sent a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19566	Comrade Culey, in your case, I voted out of my conscience against you going to answer as long as you're free in Vukovar, as long as we have the victims of Vukovar, the ones who were on the side of the Chetnik in Vukovar are free to walk. My conscience wouldn't allow it, and I was against it no matter what I thought here, and that's my attitude, and that's where I stand now, yesterday, and in the future. And I think it's a good thing that every MP has his own position. Of course, when you mentioned the coloring, it really might have been too much Mr. Pernar rerouted to one side. It's all right for me, too, but it's not just one party's fault, it's not one party's fault. The party is a set of people, and... which can be guilty or not guilty, and parties can support wrong ideology, blame the worldview, something has to happen, but it's not just one side. That one party was only guilty in the Republic of Croatia was fine. It is a subport of networked groups of interested, corrupt and corrupt groups that destroy both the system of values and the institutional system together and are networked without any ideological world-wide principles. They just use the world-wide principles, in case of ideological pre-election. Before the elections, the Ustashas, the Partisans, 1941, 1942, these victims, those victims, and that people, homogenize each other's voters. And the rest of them don't care at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19567	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed Ivan Willibor Sincic. Here you go. ... No, I didn't see it. [[/The intrusion speaker doesn't understand.]] All right, Comrade Pernar, here you go. This is a really important and brief debate, so go ahead. Just keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19568	I would like to thank Mr. Bull for everything he said today because he spoke the essential facts and I must say he is one of the few MPs who, in part, stood behind his words, and the example was when he told me: Mr. Pernar, suggest the amendment, I will vote for him. And he's the only representative of the government who voted in favour of my amendment, and I thank him for that. But let's get back to the subject. That in this country Ivan Pernar and the dog Medo can be condemned, and Nadan Vidosevic, Ivo Sanader, Bozidar Kalmeta and all that furniture cannot be condemned. I guarantee you, Mr. Bull, that the more likely the court will find me guilty than Eve Sanader. It's more likely. And it's more likely that I'll be portrayed as a law breakinger and a criminal than the biggest criminal in this country. It's our institutions, it's our judiciary, it's a total farce, it's a total replacement of thesis, and these thesiss that SDPs here say to me like, Pernar, if you think you're right or whatever, you'll prove your innocence. My people, whom you deceive, whom shall I prove my innocence! People who stole the whole country and pushed me on the defendant's bench because I stood up against their crime. Should I prove it to them? Who, gentlemen, is it in the DORH that I'm telling that they're acting objectively? A nonstop repeats the thesis that the DORH is not selective in criminal persecution. Well, my people, if the DORH wasn't selective, the country wouldn't have been robbed. That DORH is not biased by this crime would have stopped by a long time ago. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19569	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Miro Bulj will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19570	I would agree with this last part if the DORH wasn't selective, it should be repeated on this pay phone. DORH selectivity is a fundamental problem. A number of items high in number from the chalices and the lower ones you mentioned, they are in drawers and they buy dust. And at a political moment as anyone changes, it affects these things that are not good. This can be seen through Croatian young history as it happened. So, selectivity is the basic problem of the State's Attorney's Office, and the entire judiciary that is unequal, and we can also monitor historically what happens to similar and same cases, and we know that the single law, and the Penal Code and Criminal Law are unique, and the verdicts are not uniform. Even in the same court, we have unequal convictions, let alone at one end of Croatia and at the other end of Croatia. So, uncertainty is the main obstacle to Croatia's development, and the DORH is there, the selectivity of the State's Attorney's Office is obvious because it is increasingly visible in the dog that barked in small honey. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19571	Now the last line will be given to the esteemed Ivan Vilibor Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19572	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's my colleague Bulj, I'll just give you one thought given to me by an old Zagreb lawyer who's been dealing with criminal law for decades. He said a general thought that is not far from the truth, UskoK, meaning as part of the DORH, USKOK pursues up to 10,000 euros if more than 10,000 euros of crime does not go away, there should be ties to pull, there should be a policy to give a warrant. And we see, I repeat, it's not far from the truth in many cases, I think it's the shame of this country, not just of this country, but of every country. I mentioned Montenegro a few weeks ago on stage that we have a crime and we have no punishment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19573	The Honorable Representative Miro Bulj will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19574	Clearly and loudly, if the State's Attorney's Office had done its job, if it had performed its duty today, Croatia would have been the richest and most prospective state. We can list now numerous affairs, mention numerous tunnels, dad comes back, where his drawers are, where they are, where they are. However, the fact that the State's Attorney's Office and the judiciary have introduced legal certainty is that it would certainly be a much better situation but it's not, it's not. And in this example from the dog Bear who barked, I mean what's he gonna do but bark at the moon if he himself, who's got a criminal record, has made it to court to banal things like putting graphite. Really banal things to be a priority. But I'm really interested in the state's attorney's office taking all these cases to the extent of their application, so let's see how many of them are in drawers and how many of them are being pushed right away, and that's, of course, their quota. Because it's important that they show that they were doing something. And the fact that it applies to the less famous people, to the poor or who doesn't have the money, they absolutely don't care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19575	Thank you very much. Fortunately, no one has reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure that my colleague Bulj compares to the Bear dog but, yes, well.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19576	I apologize, I have a board, so I'm going.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19577	We'll continue our individual debates. So now the word will be given to the esteemed representative Ivan Vilibor Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19578	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's a coincidence or not, this is the third time I've spoken after my fellow Bulls and the third time I've had a noise in this part. But I will, of course, stand here in the defense of my colleague Ivan Pernar. There's only one thing here, it's the Immunity Commission procedure, and nothing else, it's just the DORH's conduct. My colleagues and colleagues, we're a country of double criteria, we're not a rule of law, I've seen it so many times. I'm going to open a debate with a German saying, he says like this, we're sending little thieves to the gallows and I'm taking off my hats in front of the big one. It depicts all the truth of double criteria in our country. In Croatia you have hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of groups of dissuaded citizens, you want from the '90s, from preprivatisation, you want from which measures and bad laws, distorted court proceedings to today. You want a recent case of Royal Insurance, you want damages to Ersta Bank, you want damages to Ersta Bank, you want a Hypo Bank, you want an Hypo, you want an Frank case, you want a cooperative case, you want financial engineering from the '90s, you want a stand-law case, people that's been released for decades without a problem being solved because it's in the best interest that these people die, come and legalize their property that way. So it's all done on purpose. Just from the cases of former PIC employees, you have 60, 70, only 60, 70 groups. Torpedo credentials' association, I don't know any damage from that factory. We can go in a row, this damaged group, that damaged group. For decades and decades, our judiciary has not dealt with it. I mention again one scandalous and yet so true a statement by an old Zagreb lawyer who deals with criminal law if it is a crime of up to 10,000 euros, it will soon be prosecuted and it will be watched not by the DORH, not by an ordinary state lawyer, but by the USKOK very specialising in serious crime, for economic crime, for organised crime, what the Italians call the mafia, have an institution that has in its name the word mob, up to 10,000 euros, afterwards hard, difficult colleagues and colleagues. Known cases have been waiting for decades to process, to file charges, then the first degree, then the second, then the Constitutional Court, how many cases have gone out of date. I say again, hundreds and hundreds of groups decommissioned. I don't know, we'll go on, the Croatian Bank, a group of damaged people who invested their money in that bank, spent the night without everything and not so long ago. We're campaigning, too. You have such cases endlessly, infinitely, more than these hep ears we listed this morning. So that's what this is about, the double criteria of colleagues and colleagues. The criteria, for the poor, for the powerless, are politically inadequate. Here's if I'm not mistaken, my colleague Bulj reported Mr. Tedeschi several times because some money went missing from Sinj back in the '90s. To this day, nothing. I spoke in my speech about how many people have reported to the boss for the distribution of bonuses and says Minister Mrsic unlawfully, the National Bank is against the law. And the inspector says it's illegal. And whoever you want says illegal, and to this day, it hurts your bottom, nothing. Nothing ladies and gentlemen, so are we normal? So are we crazy? Shall we move on? Billions of damage is only in the immune, long, endless tape, the agony of our citizens since '92. If I'm not mistaken when it's turned from a social company to a d.d., when bad administrations are set, they just sink and fail, and loses their licenses, and loses their temper, and loses their reputation and can't be done, and there's no way criminal charges can be processed. And the people who reported it are obviously idiots. People who come to me with whistles from INA who have been beaten, people who have lost their jobs starting with Vesna Balenović and everyone else who is the most famous case, are obviously idiots, they're fools. We will go to Croatia post office, disputes, whistles from the Croatian Post Office. An endless number of cases of co-worker and co-worker. And what I'm most afraid of today when I'm investigating these cases is hard to get data, it stays somewhere, lags in collective memory, lasts for two days, and those who need to act don't act, forget it. That's why we have to keep reminding ourselves. I warned about that murder in Montenegro, there's no processing, there's no processing here either. What do we need DORH for? Then why do we need a Bounce if he's dealing with petty crime? Here's a thousand kuna damage from the graphite. So I don't justify gafitting and vandalism, there are graphites that are art, and political activity and messages are different. And who gets hurt in the end? Poor girl's suffering. As far as a specific colleague, Culei, no one from the coalition has voted in favour of removing your immunity. And I don't think that immunity should be removed for such matters, and I think the DORH here may have been out of revenge, perhaps out of punishment but certainly out of impartiality. And now we have to waste our time and resources and the question is, how much will they spend on bringing the case to an end? I'm sure there's more to it than 1,000 kuna. What are we talking about? What are we talking about, colleagues and colleagues? The hardest thing to do is be a whistle in this country, warn about things like that, and nothing. There is no justice in this country, there is no order in this country. I warned Prime Minister Plenkovic here, I named him 6, 7, 8 non-functional DORH institutions in the first place. Let's at least try to reform something, at least that DORH. Let him be given a billion kuna, not as boredom 150, 300 if he's short. We've got thousands of unemployed lawyers, so let's get a job there. But with those billions of kunas they would give them, five billion might be forced, protected, punished and taken away. But no, we like the DORH like this, politically humanised. I know from my work at the Croatian Assembly of the Committee of Representatives and Appeals where I was, citizens write at the Parliament, come to us, we pass on. End up on the DORH and it's a black hole, still nothing. The presidents write it all over again at DORH. It's obviously a trash can over there. To what purpose, what purpose? And I will end my debate by calling the DORH and politics in general to stop dealing with nonsense, to stop dealing with nonsense and to deal with real crime, organised crime, and that the criteria are vice versa to look at those below 10 thousand euros or I don't know how much in this sentence. And that there is no mercy on serious crime, economic crime. And to end another saying that describes this case well, "The village is burning and the grandmother is combing." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19579	Thank you. We've got a few replicas on your exhibit, too. She's right, she's a respected representative... Comrade Pernar, calm down, calm down. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You'll get your turn. We have dedicated today only to you, but you can't be the only one who has others all the time. Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19580	Here's a thank you. As the debate moves away, I decided to deal with the details a little bit, and I concluded that Mr. Pernar has a good connection at the Municipal Court in Zagreb. Because the indictment was filed on February 29th, and the Municipal Court in Zagreb has not yet decided on the basis of the indictment. Seven months someone's been saving you there and you're politically persecuted. You know, it could be different, but then we looked at the indictment, and first of all, I see that you're 50 meters from a police vehicle in the 1st of the night in the Sesvets that you went to draw graphs and that you were caught. What amateurism I'd say. And after that I see that you had a spray from the pioneer producer MTN you didn't even use the Croatian product, that's the second minus you got. Then when the police officer came to you, you still had the spray in your hand, so you threw it away. So it says here otherwise that this other guy threw the pattern, and what's most interesting is that the trafocell smelled like fresh spray. So you made it at 1:00 a.m. to get caught by the police for not saying good-bye. Therefore, this is at a very early stage of criminal proceedings, so the court has not yet decided on the indictment, perhaps this debate also encourages the State's Attorney's Office, and afterwards, even though the court may not influence their decisions, because this is clearly one joint venture against you. So the deputy municipal state attorney Ksenija Sebek Filipović, and the deputy municipal state attorney for the performance of Ivo Lordnetić, and the state lawyer Dinko Cvitan and several police officers, said well to your colleague Sinčić "The village is worse and the grandmother is combing." Only we have to worry that the village is not burned. That's why I'm still in the middle of a dilemma about answering your findings.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19581	The esteemed Ivan Willibor Sincic will respond. Here you go. He won't answer. The next is the esteemed colleague, Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19582	Dear colleague Sincic, the goal of this political structure is actually much deeper. Instead of making an investigative committee in Parliament, let's see where the HDZ verdict is stuck, why the rulings have fallen, why all of a sudden everyone who has confessed and repented, even through the media. I remember that HDZ accountant regretting it through the media because she was pulling out money and taking part in the work. Suddenly in court, this same woman claims she doesn't remember anything. And instead of discussing this HDZ is an intelligent solution he pulled a rabbit out of his sleeve and instead of us discussing what they did in our country, we've been discussing for more than 3 hours what we're going to do with Ivan Pernar over the baffle part. He's throwing a colleague from HDZ, and we know what we're gonna do with you. Of course. I know what's going to happen to me, and I understand that. I understand your motives, I understand your methods, and I understand your purpose. But ladies and gentlemen of the HDZ, I will use this speaker's mandate after today to pound on you every day, and I will take out your fat, and I will tear the case apart, because we will no longer out of the way to outsmart and steal time and harass and the public, so that both citizens and MPs are dealing with this kind of nonsense while you push a country like what kind of trailers break in simultaneously ignoring reality, reality, fact and real sense of any responsibility. You've turned into a total hypocrite. I thank my colleague Sincic for pointing to that gap, that farce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19583	Thank you. The esteemed Ivan Willibor Sincic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19584	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here is my colleague Pernar, thank you for looking back at my debate and the part where I said that it is forgotten, that it should be constantly reminded not only of Croatian representatives who are here, but also of the Croatian public because this is very and very much seen and listened and commented and very relevant. It's very important what we say here, it affects our entire country. And all crime needs to be opened and called out. We know about Calmeta on this side, but we also have Linic on this side. Therefore, I don't think grace should be. They all need to get their fat out, and I support you in that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19585	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Obviously, he's gone, so we won't be able to hear what he was going to say, so we'll move on to an individual debate next, which is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Lackovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19586	Thank you, Vice President. Introductoryly, I will say that I am apprehensive of the cynicism and shortsightedness of all those colleagues who participated in this debate and did not see in this procedure, or the request to remove Mr. Pernar's parliamentary immunity, the problem. And now I'm going to tell you why. So, if there is any practice to act on the request of the DORH, then it is not something we should not question, because even before any criminal application or indictment is filed, there is a review. Well, that's what the law said in Article 206c. A state lawyer shall reject a criminal application when deciding on it on the principle of purpose if it considers that there is insufficient public interest. So in this case it is likely that there is a public interest. It's a discretionary decision from the state's attorney. It is not an act of such a nature that, therefore, the Mandate-Immunity Commission may discretionaryly decide in this case whether or not it is necessary, because you can protect against private harassment, private criminal proceedings by all MPs. But if you're being harassed by the State Attorney's Office, and it's very fond of harassing especially the mayors, especially if they're not systemically, so if they don't belong to the left or right but come from independent structures, then they're going to extract your fat. They're going to study you for every penny you've got if you've earned it fairly. But look why this is important and how it's very easy to figure out. So we should ask here to get someone fired or to resign for what he submitted. And Mr. Pernar is burdened with Article 235, which says: “Whoever damages, destroys, distorts or does a non-usable foreign matter will be punished by a prison sentence of up to two years.” So the article says: “The penalty referred to in paragraph 1 of this article will punish anyone who draws or signs unauthorizedly changes the appearance of walls, motor vehicles or other surfaces.” So we have now received from the town of Koprivnica a total account that was several thousand kunas. They counted how many of us each had glued posters. They took it off at their expense, put it out. I got 1,100 kuna myself. I made a nice payment and no one filed a criminal charges against me. Now, what's the criminal charges against Mr. Pernar being filed for? Well, it's very simple for a political reason. It's politically mounted to initiate the procedure. But Mr. Pernar very often wrongly addresses things so he addresses things to HDZ or to SDP, so it's not random at all. It mentions the currently known procedures, and it doesn't matter at all because the subject Sanader was politically motivated and all these objects and Calmeta and everyone who was going on were politically motivated because it's very obvious from what Mr. Bulj said where he said exactly being scheduled and manipulated with the State's Attorney's Office. Now, why should someone get fired? It's very simple, because to answer Mr. Pernar's request of the State's Attorney's Office and to remove his representative immunity, it takes more than a thousand kuna. And now I ask him how big that graphite was, they tell me that graphite was 20 times 50 centimeters, so about one meter square. And now I ask what was the background, they say white. And now listen to the offer of malice from this nuškal, says removing old paint from the wall and ceilings per metre square five kuna, deep impregnating walls and ceiling impregnations in the price of three kunas, one layer of glazing walls or ceiling smooth mass included eight kunas, one layer of wall coloring or ceiling white color included six kunas. So that's 22 kuna, if it was in different colors then another eight kunas up and we have the price of painting that wall in the amount of 30 kuna. So who's pulling on the nose of the MPs and the committee on the Mandate-Immunity Commission, so who signed the state's attorney to see what his name is, come here and explain how it's possible for a damage of 30 kuna to be a thousand kuna? So very simply, did he spend maybe a public procurement? He doesn't need public procurement because it's small value. Did he look at the ad page I just looked at? He didn't look, he was motivated. The attack on Mr. Pernar and all these objects we've heard are attacks on people who don't belong to the system. When you're part of the system, don't insult your colleagues from left or right, they won't attack you or you'll have a chance to defend yourself. People who speak freely or who come out of the system are attacked, and that's visible to everyone. And that's why we need to work on the quality of the judiciary, call on the man who calculated that this is a thousand kuna damage, fire him, and see who his employer is. What motivated him to assess the damage to over a thousand kunas if it costs so much in malatras? So, in conclusion, I think you should consider the Mandate-Immunity Commission with your head. There are no rules that can't be exceptions, and I also think that we all have the right and the duty to think for ourselves. So when we think about it with our heads, then we'll do what Mr. Pernar or Sincic says, and we'll call the state's attorney, and we'll ask, so how come there's no means of persecution to form a war crimes department, and there's going to be a process of writing graphite 20 times 50 centimeters and he's rightly wondering if we're normal. But more and more people listen, those who operate the repressive apparatus are neither left nor right, nor in HDZ or SDP people know that. These people are deep behind for each other and not just behind us who are in the middle and who are struggling to change that. And very soon we'll all figure it out in the middle together and agree and form and with all those honest people who are on the left and on the right who are doing their job to bring change to our country. And for starters, I'd like to see here the gentleman who assessed this damage to a thousand kuna and charge him these three hours that we debate about removing immunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19587	Thank you very much. The breach of the Rules of Procedure was sought by a colleague of the Bunjac. Here you go. No, no, no, no, no. You're the one who hurt the Rules of Procedure. Well, then that's different. A colleague, Ivan Pernar, first reported for replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19588	Mr. Lackovic, thank you very much for your words and you have entered into the measure of the very things. Unlike all of us who have debated here, you have come to the essence, and the bottom line is that a state attorney on a request for someone's persecution decides on whether there is a public interest in this act, whether there is a public interest in Croatian society to prosecute me for this crime. In my opinion, although it is biased, I think there is no public interest here, but only the private interest of a particular group of a particular group and of a particular party. Our people have no use for this process, so much more when it comes to what all crime cases are not processed, and that makes sense even colleagues from the SDP think. It seems that only the people of one party here, I will not list which, it is known which party they will recognize, defend themselves here, the DORH procedure, claim that there are public interests here with me being processed, and thus only acknowledge what I am all along, that this indictment is a political construct, that the decision to process me is a political decision and despite what hypocrisy is involved in what kind of banal work is and despite the lack of public interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19589	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Željko Lackovic will respond:
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19590	Thank you. So there were more ways to get rid of your case. He could've given up on the prosecution, suspended him on parole. You could have been ordered to paint it there yourself or to pay the actual cost of painting for charity. There wouldn't be any need to take it off. Comrade Pernar, it's not a problem with HDZ, it's not a problem with the SDP. The problem is with people who sit deep down, who play with our judiciary, who aren't there. You don't see them in the halls. So I'm not a conspiracy theorist, but they all have equal problems in their ranks. You didn't mind these speeches or HDZ or SDP, and even made them laugh. You resent someone else, and he knows how to get to your head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19591	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19592	Thank you very much, Mr. Lackovic. In your debate, you justifiably mentioned the cost and the damage done, which is measured by the calculations in the indictment or the process of 1,000 kuna, and you made one of your ad hoc analyses that it couldn't cost more than 30, 40 kuna per graphite, and you wondered who they were and who they were working for. I don't know if you've read these materials. I will answer you, it says inside that the cost of 1,000 kuna was built by the City of Zagreb city firm, meaning the employees of the City of Zagreb, and their employer is the mayor of the City of Zagreb Mr. Milan Bandić. So these prices are astronomical that you and by your comparison are 30 times greater than what you really think Mr. Bandic or his city company did. So, this is, I agree, a huge problem that in the City of Zagreb unfortunately so our city government functions that the costs, and that I remember when I was a councilman in City Council, the costs of these municipal works, equipment, benches, greenery are so astronomically high that sometimes a man wonders how it is possible and why it is so. Unfortunately, every day more and more of our fellow citizens are aware of why it is so, why the funds are blowing up. We see countless indictments in the city of Zagreb, not only from the mayor but also from the lower structures. And in fact, I call on you as an agent to influence that in the City of Zagreb we do not have as unrealistic prices as you yourself have realised that they are, in this case, Mr. Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19593	Thank you. The esteemed representative Željko Lackovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19594	Dear colleague Maras, I don't mind the mention of Mr Bandic and you have to point, you're a politician, you live in politics, I don't live in politics. Of course it matters what was the subject of the evaluation. Was it an assessment of anyone being told that the whole wall, because whoever works at the State's Attorney's office also knows that this is costing 30 kuna, but if he says, "Give me an estimate for the whole wall, then you'll get an estimate for the whole wall." I think you have a very good intelligence and an instinct for politics. I suggest you be part of this new Croatian policy that will really solve problems. It doesn't matter, I said a little while ago, not HDZ or SDP, and I don't want anyone to get me wrong. There are people who today show the nation that they can play with Pernar because he's free to speak. He'll play with you tomorrow, with your head. And that's why I suggest we go fight, not if it's going to cost 30 kuna, but we go from who it is and how he ordered that assessment, so let's go with some lead. The time will come for us to become a normal legal country, a legal state. Otherwise you have a joke that says do you know where it is, in which countries there is no Russian mafia? Only where the state of the mob is. We have a serious problem in Croatia and we have to solve it, and by shooting left to right, we can neither solve it nor respect the arguments and opportunities that the system affords us the way it is to enter it and discuss it. I'm facing investigations in my city because I don't know the election boards as a city, as a city administration, instead of paying them 300 kuna, I've paid off their communal fee and closed the claim. And they're investigating it. They're playing, it's just a question of when, and who's gonna let them play with who? He won't play with me.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19595	Thank you. The next replica is the prominent representative of Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19596	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, colleague Lackovic, you've basically explained the essence of this problem very closely, namely that anyone who's a little bit of an idea, who's ever a little bit of part of his house knows that 1,000 kunas can be reduced I don't know maybe 100 squares of some space, and we've heard that this is about one square. It's far more expensive than those famous tunnels we've heard about in our time, and in fact it's about 30 kuna, and we really have to ask ourselves about the foundation that DORH's skills have reached up to 1,000 kuna. I'm already an amount of 1,000 kuna, a round amount of doubt, that it wasn't really about art, but it was about construction because it's very well known that the damage done under 1,000 kn, so 999 kuna, for example, does not trigger a criminal procedure. This specifically means that our petty criminals in Croatia know very well who steal at a gas station or something like that, that police will not pursue them on official duty. It's that you actually need the one who did the damage to ask for a private lawsuit. So he's working here specifically on a political indictment. And since it's a political indictment and this country has suffered terribly from political accusations, you know very well. Just remember your first party president. You should not allow political procedures to be restarted in this country after 26 years of independence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19597	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Petar Skoric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19598	Thank you very much. Dear President, dear colleague. I checked in during your presentation without hearing what you're about to say at the end, if I had heard that, I probably wouldn't have answered. But exhausting ourselves here for hours, arguing in a way that we can talk and stick to the one that says the great leader, so we don't have to stick to the law as a drunk float, I think it's extremely hypocritical. No matter what happens or what happens. However, with all these benign things we are discussing, it practically draws attention right from the state's attorney's office and instead of being pressured because of the non-processing of the conductors of the hybrid war against Croatia. This is where you put pressure on the DORH to do some other things entirely. The real question is essentially this, how many criminal charges DORH has seriously done in that field, and in that part, I agree with this conclusion of your exposure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19599	Thank you. Representative Zeljko Lackovic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19600	Thank you. So I think these are important things because they lead even though they may not matter to important things, and we have to be proud of being Parliamentarians and we can talk here. Because if we don't talk then you won't hear it anywhere. We haven't learned anything from little Mirko Vidovic's death, we haven't brought food quality regulations yet, we still don't have chemical analysis, we still haven't realized that 500 new cancer patients are coming out of the bad food we're eating, and we can't get anything out of anything, it's frustrating. This is an object that we can learn from. Well, it's not the state's attorney's office to play with us and press charges for 1,000 kuna if it didn't check out well. Because imagine the game of every kuna, it's too much. So twice see if it's 1000 kuna or not 1,000 kuna, but they're playing. And politicians are now on the lowest branches and are being hunted by the state's attorney's office when re-election is needed and when it is necessary to confirm and when big fish are to be caught. I want the state's attorney's office to do its job impartially, to be tried by everyone, and this is an obvious example of a political structure that's done frequently, just by unselectively raising charges because the materials and evidence are not being collected somewhere in the white world by the Canary Islands, but by all of us here, and now you'll see how it will be very active before the local elections that fellow Coley will have a hearing scheduled, probably at the 4th month, and there will be tensions there, so there will be criminals on the streets, the victims have to look at them. Once again, we'll have something that neither creates SDP nor HDZ, but someone in the background who controls a judicial apparatus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19601	Thank you. And the last replica so far is distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19602	Thank you very much, Vice President. Coliga Lacković, we have been listening to the story of two events for several hours now, so one is content, we all explain it and each one is practice. And what comes together both in content and practice when the time comes is the vote and I think so far the Parliament has never denied the initiation of the procedure if the request came from the official state body and that is the DORH and that will happen. And whatever you're listening to me here, whatever you're telling me. What's the problem? The problem is those who commit an act and then pretend to be big guys and then want to run and hide behind some parliamentary immunity that no one has ever been protected by a parliamentary immunity until now if it's an official criminal case against him, if it's being initiated in other ways, if DORH did so in particular. And now we have a fact that a man is giving us lessons here and he's asking to be held to his word for some of his stories. He doesn't hold himself to his own words. So he doesn't hold on to his word at all and he gave him one and that was the first one he said in this House, he said I would obey the laws of this country, the Constitution and constitutional order, and you have behavior that goes beyond that. He wants to go to the movies, he doesn't want to take a public transport, I won't pay for a ticket, I'm watching TV, I'm not paying for a subscription. And he seeks understanding that we respect him because he does not hold to his word. So if you don't keep your oath, to what you said, and that's not just a word, it's an oath, and I'm supposed to keep you here giving us lessons all day long. About us colleagues, it's terrible that he says hohstappler in suits. I provoke them every day, laugh in their faces, write every little thing, against every single one of us here. So wait for the man of God, and you must know where you are. If you want to act normal, act normal, but you can't act like some big guy, and when someone jumps you somewhere and I don't want to play anymore, it should be the way I do. Who might also convince me that this isn't in some kind of agreement with the team you're talking about, so if it wasn't one pretty, here's a political farce or a story to make someone important. Here's how I can think. But the state's attorney's report for 2015 will come here. And this particular debate was supposed to be a debate on the subject. And then you have a lawyer, so ask him from A-Z whatever you're interested in, whatever happens. And this kind of thing is used to waste time, I think it's below every level.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19603	Thank you very much. Now we'll go to the next individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19604	Do you mind if I just answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19605	And I'm sorry, I'm sorry, colleague Lackovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19606	So it's not about this debate of ours today, John Pernar, at least not in this part where I've been exhibiting. I think the problem is far broader, the lack of a rule of law, the selectivity of the work of the State's Attorney's office. I sincerely regret all those who have been in politics and are exposed to judicial proceedings. Today the media will pack up a situation like this for you. Your wife won't believe you're innocent. They'll judge you before you get to court. In a court of law, it will not prove you guilty, but you will prove that you are not guilty, and that is all because they are chosen, that is, their reports come here before us because we are silent. And this is a little test. If we don't shut up that there's something damage to 1,000 kunas that can't be objectively, if we don't call the law Department right now, then they'll still be playing with us... today is their Pernar, generally irrelevant, tomorrow is their Sanader. You see, all Sanaders found guilty, we're still wondering why he wasn't already executed. So neither we expect a trial nor a presummation of innocence, not because we base our opinions on something debt, but because they do not work well. And if they did well, we would have quick decisions, normal ones, and we wouldn't be in this situation, and it's obviously in someone's interest that we're dealing with ourselves and that the state is in this kind of situation and we had significant doubts about, say, hiring in HEP, it won't, do you think anyone's going to start this process, so they're going to reconsider? And yet some accusations have fallen. It's not going to do anything about it, it's going to be about the graphite now, and before the local elections, you can attack the mayor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19607	Thank you. The next individual debate is the distinguished representative Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19608	Thank you, dear Vice President. I'm sorry that we have to discuss today, but I don't like to discuss it the way it is today that we're talking endlessly about a topic. But I just have to because it's about the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. I can tell you what my colleague Bulj said let whoever never wrote a single graph come forward, here I am the one who never wrote a single graphite and never knowingly damaged someone else's property. And I believe that anyone who knowingly does such a thing should certainly be responsible for this procedure. However, I believe that the procedure initiated by the DORH is not how it should never have been initiated first, as secondly I believe that the unwritten rule that I have heard exists when the DORH initiates some kind of procedure that then we must remove immunity because it is an unwritten rule. That rule doesn't always have to be followed, we have our conscience, we have our own vision of the situation, there are some things that don't make it necessary to take off immunity from the MP, so I was also against removing immunity from Agent Culei when he came to the agenda. Because I didn't think it was the kind of thing that deserved to take off immunity. I'll also be against removing immunity from Agent Pernar. But first of all, because DORH wants to act when it comes to peanuts, and it's stalling very important things, and now I'm going to explain a few things that are personal to me because I'm involved in them. In 2013, criminal charges were filed against Governor Vujčić for favouring banks in illegal interest rates bargaining. As he agreed, how did the CNB take advantage of negotiating these illegal interest rates? So on his consumer protection site, he made a notice saying that banks are allowed to change interest rates by unilateral decisions. It is then required that the CNB remove its publication which was illegal and on the contrary to order banks not to change interest rates accordingly. But the CNB didn't do it. And then we filed a criminal report against Governor Vujcic. After a year, the State Attorney's Office heard me personally, found nothing controversial in my statements, but the criminal application was rejected despite the fact that in the end the Supreme Court ruled precisely that it was not allowed for banks to change the interest rates unilaterally. We have the following case from last year 2015. The association "Franak" also filed criminal charges against Governor Vujčić, both against Governor Rohatinski and filed criminal charges against 8 banks for illegal business. That criminal report is waiting in the drawer, and there's nothing going on with it right now, at least according to my knowledge. The next item is a misapplication against 8 banks from this year where 8 banks were reported for illegal parameters at variable interest rates. According to some of our estimates, if these banks were prosecuted in violation of the state budget, they could go from nine to 25 billion kuna of criminal penalties. So it would be a very good injection for our budget, it's money that lies on the road and the state just needs to pick it up because it's perfectly justified, because it's legal and because the fact that banks are not with their debtors in over 100,000 loans they've agreed the parameters, but they've unilaterally defined them and they've violated the law, and the Law on Mandatory Relations, and the Consumer Credit Act. The misdemeanor against 8 banks lies somewhere in the drawer and waits perhaps even outdated because in April next year, persecution against banks will become obsolete. So, my main reason why I will be against removing immunity to Agent Pernar is precisely the fact that the State Attorney's Office in the case of Pernar reacts spotlessly until in the case of criminal charges against Governors Vujčić and Rohatinski, against 8 banks, in the case of misappropriations against 8 banks that can be admitted to the state budget from 9 to 25 billion kuna. That's my reason why I'll be against removing immunity from Agent Pernar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19609	Thank you very much. Fortunately, no one reported for the replica, so the next individual debate would be the distinguished representative Branimir Bunjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19610	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today, we have heard here several times that it is not HDZ or SDP, yet some have mentioned those who are looking for the persecution of MP Ivan Pernar. However, we have the right to doubt the basis of the vote on the mandate-immunity committee that it is precisely the representatives of the HDZ that will make up most of those MPs who will demand the removal of immunity. In fact, we have no doubt at all that the decision had already been taken in advance, given that there are only three representatives of the ruling party here in the assembly, and especially since they gave up their own representative two weeks ago, although they were personally and intimately opposed to the removal of their immunity against their own will, against their own consciences they voted out of fear of losing their own privileges, before the hierarchical fall in their own party with which they were threatened. So they handed their own colleague over to the court instead of their own will and that is not surprising at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19611	Comrade Bunjac, I must intervene here. You're very well aware, that's where you sat when your colleague Culey asked and asked all of us, all the MPs to take off his immunity so that he could prove his innocence. Therefore, do not say things that do not stand. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19612	Thank you. Therefore, these same representatives of the same party gave up both their first president and the creator of Croatia's state, allegedly. They also denied Croatian generals, they extradited them to court in The Hague. They gave up their own prime ministers who had been kicked out of the party. They also gave up their own party president for whom they voted 100% in June this year, so they did not even put him on the list to join the Parliament, let alone give him any other support. For that reason, it is clear that they do not actually have any special sense of honor. And we from the Living Wall...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19613	I must warn you again that you can't insult the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19614	I'm telling the facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19615	I beg you to say that someone has no honor here is an insult. Therefore, you insult the entire group. I'm asking you nicely don't insult the MPs. I warn you about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19616	Thank you. So, we members of the "The only option" coalition did not vote to lift immunity from MP Cule. We didn't care what he was a HDZ agent. We didn't come here to party. The fact that Representative Culey has nine medals for participating in the Homeland War means something to us. What he's done is he's done the work of taking down the board, which in any case is one minus for him even though it's not proven if he is. But his merits are also a segment to be considered. Thus, it is always necessary to measure the righteousness of a decision. And we didn't vote. And we could say he's not a member of our party, he's a member of the party that takes off immunity to Agent Pernar or he'll take it off, but we didn't do it. But these are the same HDZ deputies who accuse us like Mr. Šipic that we've been getting along with the SDP. They voted by order of the SDP. You've been removing Mr. Cule's immunity together. By order of those who lit fires in Vukovar, you gave good ear to your hands because you were afraid for your own positions. And of course, I have no doubt at all that even today a part of the SDP colleagues who are persistently accusing us that we are in some kind of partnership will also vote as will HDZ colleagues. The same ones that, as I repeat, have once again located, transferred, extradited. But you know, you're in this court, on this charge today, you might do something about it. But remember in the historical court you've already lost. Just as everyone who meets General Gotovina or other generals on the street should be ashamed today and you will run to the other side of the road tomorrow and in 15 or 20 years run to meet Ivan Pernar, shake his hand, kiss him and hug him, and say I didn't mean it, you know I had to force myself to do my job. I didn't make decisions to feed my family, but I know what you're going to say in advance. And you know Ivan Pernar is the hero of this society because he talked about things in which he supported the vast majority of Croatian people. I mentioned today the case of Adolf Eichmann who said I didn't kill anyone with my own hands. No, it didn't kill 10 million Germans who participated in World War II events with their own hands. But some Sophia Scholl showed up, you know, she was interrupting college work, throwing flyers down college halls, inviting the Germans to rebel. And what did they do to her? They shot her, they cut her head off, yeah, literally. But you can see from all those 1' million of them who were just doing their job, her name is remembered. It is written about books and films, not servants and cowards who have attitude but who dare say it only when they are allowed. You know what people like that are called, officially? Half-trons. So you know very well what I'm talking about, but you'll be silent for so long until someone texting gives you permission to say it in public here. And therefore, Agent Pernar, you are, of course, already convicted in advance, we know in advance that I would be able to envelope the vote here as it will be when you vote on your removal of immunity, but you are proud because what you are doing now will have an echo in the future and in the history of the Croatian people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19617	Thank you. We have one replica of the esteemed John Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19618	Thank you. Dear Representative Bunjac, I have the Bible. The new covenant in hand and we come to that famous event or conspiracy in this case Bible versus Jesus in my case against me, and it's interesting that you HDZ colleagues are saying we're not to blame for what's going on with you, we have nothing to do with it. That's what you've been saying all along, that's what Pontius Pilate said, and he ended up washing his hands. That's how you HDZ gentlemen claim you had nothing to do with it, that's where you call me, that you attack me, that I should be tried, but that you had nothing to do with the fact that it wasn't you who made the decision to process me, that some other people did. And I wonder, gentlemen, can you sleep peacefully in the light of all these facts? In light of the fact that it's clear that you can't cost a thousand kunas to take those two or three graphites off, I don't know exactly how many they're accusing me of. It clearly doesn't cost a thousand kuna, it's clear that it doesn't cost a thousand kuna, it's clear that there's no public interest in processing me, but there's a public interest in processing some other people on our political scene. But to the question of the Barabbas instead of Jesus, the Jewish congregation then answered the Barabbas, and we will condemn Jesus. So today you do the same thing in the final word I'm going to say what your motives are for that by quoting Mark 15 paragraph 10. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19619	Thank you, dear colleague Pernar. My friend Bunjac didn't answer for any answers. But I must tell you that you have now finally compared yourself to Jesus, it has been a sign earlier that you will do what may, unfortunately, hurt some, and on the other hand, cause some to interfere depending on their religious attitude. But in any case, we respect the fact that you've identified yourself with Jesus. Next we have two closing words for five minutes. She's the first one to be a respected representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19620	Thank you, Your Honor. I don't compare myself with Jesus in the sense that I have a role like him, I'm not even worthy to wash his feet. ... Fate me and him in being both victims of a mounted political process. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] He was attacked that he insulted me and attacked me all the time. He kept saying but I'm just telling the truth, I'm telling the HDZ gentlemen the same thing, I'm just telling the truth. However, he says: “And Pilate asks them, ” that is, Mark 15;9 “if you want me to let the king of the Jews go to you, he said this because he knew that the chief priests had delivered Jesus out of envy to him. ” So these people who had applied for Jesus ’ trial were against his release, says Pontius Pilate, doing so out of envy because he was better than them and they couldn't beat him in words because every time they faced him, each time Jesus beat them and they went out ashamed. Instead of acknowledging defeat, to which the Pharisees of Jesus ’ day decided, they decided on a cowardly act, which is that by using their political influence they would bring Jesus of Nazareth on a mounted trial in which he would later be condemned and executed. And he says, "Then Pilate told them again, what do you want me to do with this which you call the king of the Jews?" Crucify him, they all yelled at one. So today the HDZ people all say, "Let's leave him to the court, we have to judge him, they're all equal before the law." And Pilate said to them, "Why, what crime he committed? So, he even tried to appeal to their conscience by pointing out that there was no real crime that Jesus committed, as I have been trying to tell you all along that there was no real crime here, that the damage was minor, but you are unfortunately not listening. And he says in Mark 15. 14: But they cried even louder, spread him out, spread him out. So the more we try to show you the senselessness of this process, the more agile you are, the more replicating you and actually encouraging me to be convicted, to get immunity off me, you're actually admitting that you're the ones behind my prosecution. And Pilate, because he wanted to please the congregation, let Barabbas go, and ordered the soldiers to beat Jesus and to crucify him afterwards. Dear friends, Jesus was punished in a brutal way, in which in this mounted process I will be punished I do not know, but I do not doubt his outcome because I know his motives. And I just want to tell you that what you're doing is this process that you've entered, it's a dead end, a very dead end to work, and you need to be aware that today, tomorrow, any of you, if you're going to vote to take off my immunity, you might find yourself in a similar situation. And then ye shall cry out with all voice, It is set for me; it is not my fault. But the rest of the assembly will say: No, no, DORH is impartial, state institutions are doing their job, there must be a legal state etc. etc. I appeal once again, don't do this to your fellow MP because I wouldn't do that to you. I'm not that kind of man, I don't have that kind of motive. My wish is to defeat you not by legal means, not by means of legal means, not by judging you, so I forbid you to run and so forth, but by the elections of the people to whom I belong and to whom I serve the best I know and can. And that's it. On your conscience, on your soul, I give my destiny to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19621	Thank you very much. Comrade Pernar, I just have to warn you, you said most of the replicas came from the HDZ, of the 20 replicas 4 were from HDZ, and almost everyone else from your club, but good. The next final word is the esteemed representative of Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19622	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. For three and a half hours, we've been discussing removing the immunity of a fellow MP for damages that are certainly much less than the cost of electricity, officials, paper and all that has been done around this agenda point. The SDP club has so far respected the principle of voting to remove immunity from those representatives requested by the State's Attorney's Office, along with other clubs in the Assembly. We will remain that way in this case, and as it is certain there will be no vote on that. If we change that attitude in the meantime, we'll let you know. As far as the case is concerned, it is clear that several judicial officials felt that our colleague Ivan Pernar committed a criminal offence on 13 October 2015. These are the deputy municipal state attorneys in Zagreb Mrs. Ksenija... Filipovic. As February 29, 2000 says it in the 15th, it must be 2016, I don't know if it can help a colleague, signed the indictment. Then, the deputy municipal state attorney who performs the affairs of the municipal state attorney Mrs. Lordnetić from Zagreb, who sent the Croatian Assembly a request for authorisation for the conduct of the criminal proceedings, was also signed by the chief state attorney of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Dinko Cvitan, who wrote in his letter that he believed that the request of the Municipal State Attorney's Office in Zagreb was established. As far as this is concerned, it's a minor crime for which a criminal order has actually been issued. The court hasn't shown itself yet about the indictment. So we've been arguing for three and a half hours, having a colossal discussion about the almost great part. Whether it's bagathel or not, it'll assess the court, which is why I said it's almost bagatelous. And sometimes we have a great debate about colossal acts. Look what's absurd. I would like to appeal to colleagues from the ruling majority to put such debates on Thursday nights only to hold a vote on Friday. You see, it's the second time in a row that extends this duration. But I'd still say one more sentence, two. First of all, this can be a debate only about the work of the State's Attorney's Office and not about Mr. Pernar. And he skillfully turns the debate on himself. It's a political skill and political skill that we don't always have to give him extra wind in the back. And secondly, we had cases in our political history that party leaders commented on similar cases with quotes: "If a state lawyer were smart, he would have sent this after the election," there were such cases. So it wasn't always that without a debate it was accessible to what the state's attorney's office asked for. As for the decision-making process, I call on all those MPs who, in particular, think it is a political process to vote against the removal of immunity, let them vote on their conscience if they think it is a political process to vote against the removal of immunity. I can only say that, that there is 12 evidence in the indictment based on which it is based, an official note on the receipt of the application, photodocumentation, confirmation of the confiscation of the case, statements of the injured, the cost of construction works, statements of the damage to the property's legal claim, records of the investigation and of the police and three indictees. Once again, the SDP club will stick to the principles we've had so far. If we question him about this, we will publicly inform all clubs of MPs and all MPs who consider it a political process should vote freely against but may then have the courage to object to the main state attorney when he comes here to the Parliament to submit a report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19623	Thank you very much. And we have a few replicas for your exposure. He's the first of his distinguished representatives, Peja Grbina.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19624	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. My replica goes to my colleague Bauku for one reason. In your speech, you mentioned that the damage caused by this possible crime was small. However, the damage to this crime is not relevant. A Member of the Commission shall be responsible for the implementation of this Regulation. Penalty law. And there's no mention of any material damage in this crime. It's a punishable store that has a certain consequence. Yesterday I listened to what my colleague Pernar was saying on the Committee, or on the Mandate-Immunity Commission, and I remained appalled when he said that some things were not done on purpose. What happened to passing through the street and replacing the deodorant spray and then leaving a trail on the wall? No, I don't. Mr. Pernar has acted consciously in these few weeks or months that we are here, I can safely say that it is a full-time person who has no reason to take away his ability to do business because he seems to me to be in good health and everything he does consciously and with intent and has also acted with intent when he did what he did. The state's attorney's office has acted here and unlike anything we've heard here as someone who's been representing in criminal cases for years, I can say there's no special expeditionivity here in the work of the state's attorney's office because we've been waiting for more than a year for this crime to begin. In practice, such items on the judge's table come after a few weeks or months. So I have to ask the question here why was it waiting so long? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19625	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19626	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm not sure that our debate, which I'm sure, was led by the best intentions and the best motives in the good part of the MPs and MPs. I'm not sure it's going the best way. So I greatly appreciate the contributions of my colleague Bauk but that we read the charges and read the names of the judges at this stage and in this case I think it's something we should avoid. Because we can't replace the court here on the one hand, and on the other hand, I'm not sure we can take responsibility for expressing the names of the people who took part in the legal process when a colleague is on Wednesday. What seems to me that we can and should undoubtedly do is discuss what led to these circumstances. And if it's that kind of action, and if it's that kind of activity. I think it deserves to be discussed so that it could be an experience for us as legislators but also for those who carry out the laws also one experience. I don't think this is about the political process against Agent Pernar, I don't recognize any particular intention but I see a potential mistake. I see an area where you can make that mistake that opens up space for someone to interpret it as a political process and it needs to be avoided.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19627	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Arsen Bauk will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19628	At the end of the day, each of us has to make a decision. So the names of the people in the judicial system I read have made their decision by virtue of the powers they have under the law and the Constitution. It is about publicly available documents, and they, like everyone, are responsible for what they are doing because they have received trust from the state, or from the state's attorney council, to enforce the law or to press charges against those they consider to have committed crimes on behalf of the State. Our decision not to end the immunity of fellow Pernar will not release the charges but will delay the conduct of the proceedings itself in the sense that proceedings cannot be carried out while he is a representative, but neither does old age. So, we can't turn the assembly into a courtroom that still has to stay in the courtroom, and we can't turn politicians into state lawyers so that the HDZ people are guilty of whatever I think of them, we SDP are great, here and there are someone who gets lost, but they're generally bad, etc. As those of the Most know, I won't. Therefore, when we talk about judicial cases like this one, we should always be careful. At this request, the signature was placed by three judicial officials, if someone considers the political process to be a vote against, if he considers that the court will determine whether Mr Pernar is guilty of voting for, if he has a problem with his conscience, let him not vote at all, but Parliament is a place like the court, as well as lawyers where decisions must be made. And of course, if we have any more of these to discuss, then at least we'll know that Friday afternoon we're going to be reviewing the charges and the charges.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19629	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19630	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Bauk, I don't think it's a political process, I believe that my colleague Pernar did all this on purpose and that he should be held accountable for it anyway, and I think he deserved the punishment and I've told my reasons why I'm going to vote against it. Unwritten rules are not prescribed. So I have a constructive proposal instead of having this kind of thing happen in the future, let's make sure that if the DORH initiates a persecution, there's no voting in the Parliament, but that immunity is automatically removed. And so we will avoid any debate of this kind in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19631	Thank you very much. The Honorable Representative Arsen Bauk will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19632	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Alexic, I find it difficult to paralyze with your opinion and you're partly right. Indeed, it is much simpler to have immunity immediately if requested by the competent State Attorney's Office or by the State's Attorney and if requested by a private prosecutor not to be removed. But you've had opposite cases. When the state's attorney's office requested that immunity be abolished to Agent Branimir Glavas in order to give him detention, on the 1st month 2008 of the HDZ colleagues because they needed those three HDSB votes to deepen most of them were against it. And Mr. Glavas didn't go into custody. And when a private lawsuit was to be brought, the criminal case against Zeljko Jovanovic because HDZ called not to say what he called him, they know and the public knows, then that immunity was removed. Therefore, there are exceptions. It's a good debate, not to mention that it's going automatically, that even those in the state's attorney's office are asking a little bit about what they're sending us, that we also have a chance to discuss their work, and that the last two days I've been using a conference to tell some other messages at the beginning of the debate, I'm going to do it now at the end of the debate, so I'm just going to send a message about yesterday's government decision when you don't know what you're going to start a commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19633	Thank you very much. That would end the debate on this point, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19634	We move to the following point: - Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission Please, President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission Mr. Žarko Tušek to submit the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19635	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here is the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 9th session held on 14 December 2016 the request of the attorney-in-chief of private prosecutor Aleksandr Stankovic from Zagreb to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the conduct of criminal proceedings against Ivan Pernar of the Croatian Parliament for the criminal offence referred to in Articles 147 and 2. Penalty law. So Ivan Pernar is a representative of this 9th convocation of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have immunity until the end of the term of office and shall not be open or prosecuted without a decision of the Croatian Parliament. Following the discussion held, the Mandate-Immunity Commission, on the basis of Article 116 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, shall by majority vote vote 8 votes in favour of and 1 against the Croatian Parliament, propose the following decision to suspend, during the term of its term of office, the authorisation to launch and conduct a criminal proceedings against Agent Ivan Pernar at the request of the attorney-in-chief of private prosecutor Aleksandr Stankovic, on the appeal brought on 8 December 2016 to the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb for the offence of the offense referred to in Articles 147 and 2. Penalty law that I don't read the whole argument. I think the situation is clear, it's clear our practice in this case is a private lawsuit, and in that case, we, as a commission, suggest that immunity is not lifted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19636	I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, Mr. Zark Tušek. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. No one checked in. As regards the replica of Mr Branimir Bunjc, there is no replication of the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission or the parliamentary bodies of the board. What do you say? ... You didn't sign up for a hearing, so we don't have any applications to discuss. [[The intruders don't understand.]] I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this agenda point when the conditions are met. Dear colleague Sincic is in violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19637	Vice-President, this is the case when the Mandate-Immunity Commission gives its report that it can apply for discussion in the course of the debate. This was the case of Mr. Glavas, Mr. Culej, just last time here with his colleague Pernar wasn't the case, so please make an exception this time, just like with Mr. Glavas and Mr. Culley and let your colleague Bunjac speak. And this is also a problem from before, so we didn't know that this point is now, you could put it in tomorrow or I don't know what day. So the same thing came from the clear sky. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19638	Thank you. I said I'd close the discussion. We'll vote on this agenda point when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and colleagues have today exhausted all the planned agenda points. The plenary session will continue tomorrow at 9:00 p.m. and we will vote on the points discussed. Thank you very much and pleasantly for the rest of the day. Cheers. Session interrupted at 1900 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-25-0.u19639	The next item is the Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. On the application for authorisation of the conduct of criminal proceedings against Ivan Pernar. The debate is closed. Firstly, in accordance with the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision. An authorisation shall be granted for the conduct of the criminal... Agent Pernar, I'm not gonna take a break and we're gonna get back to work. An authorisation shall be granted for the conduct of criminal proceedings against Agent Ivan Pernar at the request of the Municipal State Attorney's Office in Zagreb, the number of CDO 3622/15 as of 24 November 2016, sent by the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, acting on KRDO 1334/2016 of 1 December 2016 for the criminal offence against property by damage to foreign matters referred to in Article 235(2). Penalty law through 11. Please engage. Let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most votes, 88 votes in favour, 7 abstentions and 11 against decisions made as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Secondly, in accordance with the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision. During the term of office, authorisation for the initiation and conduct of criminal proceedings against Agent Ivan Pernar shall be denied at the request of the attorney-in-chief of the private prosecutor Aleksandr Stankovic, following an action brought on 8 December 2016 to the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb for the criminal offence referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 147. Penalty law through 11. Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. I find that with 104 votes for and one abstention and 4 against decisions made, as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Dear MPs and MPs, we have exhausted the planned order for today. I am concluding the second session of the Croatian Parliament. This concludes this year's work of the Croatian Parliament since it is a constitutional break for regular session from 15 December to 15 January. I believe that there will be no need for an extraordinary session, so allow me to take the opportunity to congratulate and wish on your behalf all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia a happy Christmas, a happy New and a lot of health to you, your families and all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you. I would like to ask the esteemed representatives that all members of the Mandate-Immunity Commission are invited to attend the 10th session of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on 15 December right after the vote, now in the Chamber of Stjepan Radić in the building of the Croatian Parliament. [[Applause.]] Thank you. Session closed at 6:30. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our day-to-day work. Here you go.
