ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u305	Good afternoon, everyone. Mine, for our county...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u306	You're looking for a break, aren't you?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u307	Yes, yes, an extremely important proposal is a break related to the breach of the agreement, 8 agreements on co-financing of basic and secondary education rentals.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u308	Thank you very much. She's a colleague of Rose Wolf's.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u309	President, I would also like to request a break and a five-minute chance at least to speak about the crisis in the dairy sector after the break.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u310	Of course, that's what you have after the break. All right, I'm setting a break from 10 minutes to 9.45. ... So we also have a HDZ club on the first wheel. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Do we have any other clubs, I'm sorry, I didn't ask first or second wheel? We don't. ... Yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go. First wheel or second wheel? ... Here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Did you ask for a word?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u311	Yeah, I'd ask for a break from...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u312	No, no, no, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u313	Your Honor. Who's going?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u314	Your Honor, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HSLS BUZ Club regarding... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u315	... A petition of 5,000 scientists signed a petition on funding science and education, I'd like to report to the Parliament on that. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u316	Okay, okay, now we're moving a little bit. Then here's a break to 9.50 minutes. Thank you. It's 9:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] So, first respected representative Radimir Cacic on behalf of the SDSS and Reformist Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u318	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's the reason for the SDSS and Reformers' request for a break is the topic that is right in front of us. The vote is for the budget, and the budget provides for a clear and unquestionable violation of eight co-financing agreements for primary and secondary schools in Varazdin County, which were signed on 29.5.2013. Contracts must be respected, here many would say pacta sum servanda but joke aside. Indeed, the basis of each rule of law, the basis of contract law is that the contract is treated as a law and obligations must be fulfilled, or if the effects of legal and material consequences are not met. What we're talking about here is something that I know very well about as a topic, simply because at the moment we set up that model and we went to build these 32 schools and sports halls then we had a conversation with the government, with the Prime Minister, then Sanader, Vice President Polancec because one school that was 33 was in Koprivnica, a high school in Koprivnica and explained the whole model, got support which was also publicly announced at the press conference that he was going to give support, agreed to co-finance 50% and 55, respectively, as far as it is now. And after that, for various reasons I don't get into it the government has given up on it, we have a model realized and we have this one situation is Varazdin County is the only one in Croatia that has 94% of children in primary and secondary school in one shift continuing with centres of excellence, with all that carrying it, with twice the number of students compared to ten years ago when we started the model and all the advantages that came out of it. Today, it is clear that nothing else could be done for the simple reason that EU funds do not foresee financing basic and secondary building schools at all except professional ones. So, we forget all this fund story and the budget as you know, look at the budget situation for next year is forecasting for all of Croatia instead of hundreds of seven schools, seven projects. At that rate, we will never achieve the quality of education. For that there are many reasons, burdens of collective agreements, costs etc. Here's the situation. So, unfortunately, here we have a picture that is dangerous, which sends a message to the public that it is an attack on the interests of the citizens of the Varazdin County. That's probably the current one I'd say to a deeply incompetent county government is responding because they have an alibi why they won't be able to do anything if they haven't done it by now. And as for the ruling, they do not, of course, have the ability to go or very difficult except internally against the proposal of their own government. And the citizens of the Varazdin County will lose 15 million kuna of 204 as much as the 80% budget, as well as the esteemed counsel Shuker here often says 80% as in the state already at fixed costs, wages, electricity, water, anything that goes. What's left of 45, a third of their development potential you take and kill who? Only them, just Varazdin County. That doesn't make any sense. At the same time, a model that is incomparably by weight and importance compared to the elementary school is weaker, although it is also very good to have but we couldn't afford it. Tens of thousands of children here use these schools every day. Sanader applied the model to sports halls, to arenas, threw billions. Of course it's good and the arena has, it's just a question of whether you can handle it. This country continues to pay ten times the amount, and here the Varazdin County loses. I plead to recognize this problem, to react and to prevent it from finding an opportunity to... Because it's not just 15 million. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's about taking part in the lease for the next 20 years. We're talking, because these are 30-year-old contracts that the note was on an interest rate level from one to one and a half percent because I made them so. Let's show me somewhere else in Croatia who has such interest rates. Oh, no? So, a long-term quality solution, that's what we're going to end. I hope and expect, and I have about because I have spoken to both the Minister of Education and the Minister of Finance and with the people representing the politically ruling coalition, I have some indications that this problem will be recognized and I hope, and we have here the Downworlder who is our Varazdinac no'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u319	Thank you very much. Here's the next one to speak for the esteemed Ivan Shucker, on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u320	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues now see how important that point 4 is when the law is passed when assessing the necessary funds and what the Fiscal Responsibility Act defines as having to make an assessment of those laws and regulations that they adopt in the short and long term. So, this project started at times when Croatia had an economic growth of 4 to 5%, when wages grew and annual revenues in the budgets of local self-government units grew from 11 to 15, 16% and revenues in the state budget grew at an annual level of around 11%. However, the economic crisis has come and the whole story has turned upside down. The second thing, this is also a message if we want to solve a problem that cannot be solved by an agreement in order to meet political needs as it was 3, 4 years ago. If this were done in accordance with the Budget Law and how all those who use the funds from the state budget should operate publicly and transparently, then today simply those funds would have to be provided, they would not have been able to pass because someone would have to explain why that position would be abolished. And this is how those funds are in some kind of mass, and now someone can think like this. However, I will look back a little on some of the things that we've been going through in the budget quite uninterested, which is that in the Ministry of Economy this year with the basis of factoring should be paid to banks 500 million, factoring from 2013, 2014 and 2015. And the cost of that factoring is somewhere between 35 million and 37 million kuna. If it wasn't for that factoring cost, we would have practically covered these schools, and they would have covered those funds that they needed for higher education, practically with one digit only. I also spoke on behalf of the club about the financial plans of extra- budget users actually in an individual debate that nobody was talking about. It's the only means where local self-government units can do something. But totally uninterested in this High House and then we find ourselves in this situation where we are. And I'm sure the HDZ Club will try to find a way to get rid of it with the rest of the ministers. I'm saying, since it's not a fixed position in the budget, certain redistributions between positions can be solved because simply no matter what political option is where the local self-government unit in power has something that is above it, and these are our children. These are sports halls used by children. And when we talk about addiction, there is no better fight against addiction than child sports. I'm not just pleading for this here, I'm pleading for something else. I brought it back a long time ago as mayor, but unfortunately I couldn't change it at all, but I guess I'll agree with Minister Shustar that I simply can't be recreational until 10 o'clock in the evening, but that I can only use them young people who participate in sports activities. Then it'll be an effect. Also, when we talk about these sports halls, it's not a problem in sports halls, it's a problem in their management. If they were to be used as they should then it would probably have been such a problem and on the other hand now for the next 15 years Croatia can run for any world event. He's got the infrastructure for it. But I'm saying the situation is the way it is, I'm just saying one expense, and I could pick up here the o-ho-ho that we can watch. When I talked about the purpose of the budget, I talked about many agencies, offices, etc. who simply do not correspond to the work for which they are established. And there's room to move these 15 or 20 million as far as it takes. That's why I'm telling me at the HDZ Club we're going to try to find this with our resolution ministers because just kids in northern Croatia, so in the counties, first of all in Varazdin County, they don't need to worry about how we decide here. We simply need to ensure that these halls are used for them. And the citizens of that county must not feel simply that something else has happened because I say the situation at the moment of the decision and today it is diametrically opposite. Let's not forget that someone with some kind of exhibition played with local self-government units two years ago took a billion and 800 million kuna. If he hadn't taken those billions and 800 million kunas, perhaps the Varazdin County today with its local self-government units would have had one 40 million more in the budget, and maybe this problem wouldn't be 20, but it would have been 5, 6 or 7 million so it would have been easier to solve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u321	Thank you very much. Before we move on to the following, I must say that I am also unhappy today that we have accepted the title of the factoring law, and we now again use the word factoring even though it can be said in two words, even in Croatian. But good. The next one appeared on behalf of the MOST Club, the distinguished representative of Ruzica Vukovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u322	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. I sincerely thank my colleagues for the opportunity to talk from this place about the big and important economic problem we talk about so little. A figure of 3.5 thousand male cows that have been sent to the slaughterhouse this year forced me to take a break and encouraged me to actually talk about the chaotic state of the cattle sector. We are witnessing a drastic reduction in the volume of agricultural, or livestock production in the family economies in the last 20 years. For the good part, this is the result of inadequate agrarian policy which did not take into account the specificities of our economies, which are small possessions, older populations, lower levels of education. It has already tried to create producers from such people and economies that will be competitive for developed countries that have been operating in a regulated market environment for decades. Small producers left themselves to the mercy and mercilessness of the competition knowing in the beginning that they were losers. The results of this relationship with small and medium-sized farmers are devastating. The numbers are inexorable. I will take, for example, only the decline in the number of dairy producers over the last few years, the number of dairy producers dropped from 68 thousand in 2011 to less than 4 thousand and this figure is reduced daily. The problems that accompany Croatian agriculture have deepened for many years by joining the European Union and are growing. Among other things, these are market instability, technological lags, educational discrepancies with agriculture needs, high debt, inadequate tax and fiscal policy, lack of specialised financial institutions, erosion and depravity of natural land potentials, exodus of the population from rural space, a frightening poor land policy. The danger arising from the problems listed is clearly and unequivocally evident in Croatian food addiction. So according to statistical indicators, we import 58% more than we produce, and it's sad because we import basic life supplies, which are mostly milk, meat and bread. All of the above points to a serious threat to our country's sovereignty and, above all, it's all expensive because of our failures. The State should actively support the negotiating organisation of small milk producers in the manner in which the European Parliament has also declared itself. Today, large purchasers of milk by all means and those who are not allowed to oppose the change in their current state are literally the masters of life and death of family members who are involved in the production of milk. Although this is done in a direct conflict with European regulations, we still record cases of threats to manufacturers, by stopping taking over milk if they join the producer organisation. It is a few companies that control almost 70% of the market, which are Dukat, Vindi, Megle and Belje. I remind the users of operational programmes for the development of the Croatian livestock industry that survived the measure, I repeat the name of the measure, the operational programme for the development of the Croatian livestock industry only in a slightly higher amount of 30%. However, this approach will soon lead to the inability to repay HBOR loans resulting in family bankruptcy, family breakdowns and even the suicides of cattlemen. Those who still produce milk through the state were brought into a slave-ownership position where they are encased in contracts to force their entire lives to produce cheap raw materials for a powerful master. In an extremely large number of cases, cattle farmers are struggling with a lack of area for pasture, feed production which significantly collects food costs and additional cakes already weakened family budgets in a situation where they are already burdened with high prices of input. Although the noble idea measures the direct assignment of land to cattle farmers without land by its implementation, it has actually left the cattleman out of the country again. The real abductions of arable surfaces, whose proportions slowly become known to the public, have taken place. The cattlemen behind are standing day and night production by who knows which road is marginalized, humiliated, left to himself. Alluding to all of you in this Croatian Assembly of colleagues and colleagues, help us to sensitise the responsible as well as the public about the size and seriousness of this problem. And lastly, it is more than obvious that Croatian cattle have great potential and that it represents a resource that is not even close to being put into service but that by systematic neglect it is reduced value and efficiency compared to the countries that are similar to us. The decision to keep it that way depends on us. Either we break down and start managing production processes responsibly or the remaining perspective of the country of importing food is often suspicious of origin and the quality of the rooted landscape, abandoned village and disgruntled people. And let me finish just to express my admiration for all those milk producers that under these conditions we put before them still manage to produce milk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u323	Thank you very much. And the following is a distinguished representative of Gordana Rusak who will speak for the HSLS Buz Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u324	Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Just before the beginning of this session, I received a delegation of scientists who handed me a petition to finance science and education, which was signed by just under 5,000 people. So I owe this petition here in this great House to read entirely. Turn science and education from losers to winners to the Government and the Parliament. In the 2016 draft budget, the funds of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports were reduced by 158 million kuna. Science and education are among the biggest losers of this draft budget, which is in fact Croatia's biggest loss. This petition requires the government to turn science and education from losers into the greatest winners and thus preserve hope for Croatia's future. The century we live in will not be just a century of knowledge but a century of science. The countries and societies that have understood this have put education and science as a priority and are investing more and more resources in them to make better use of the opportunities that the future brings but also participate in creating such a brighter future. Meanwhile, things are not going well in Croatia. For science and education, we have so far allocated very little resources. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think this topic deserves a lot of attention. It's about our society going the wrong way. From the land of knowledge, we will become a land of ignorance and a land that ignores this subject. May I have your attention, please? And the last draft budget in this portfolio has further continued a negative trend. Science and education are again not among the priorities of our society while at the same time some other parts of the system, mainly for political reasons, are being financed extensively. At a time when many other parts of the budget grow several times the budget of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports is inadmissible, political and civilizational shortsighted move. We are aware of the difficult financial situation in which the entire Croatia is located, so it is important to note that this request is not a struggle for the salaries of scientists and teachers. I would stress this, it is not a battle for wages but an appeal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to strengthen the very developmental component of the scientific and educational budget. The developmental section has just suffered the largest cuts both through the total amount and particularly worrying redistribution within the budget items of the ministry itself. Development of education and science has no alternative. The future of our children has no alternative, so I ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament for science and education to become the biggest winners of this budget. Continuing the reform of education through curricula reform, the rapid start of change in the system of science, high education on the basis of increasing competitiveness, internationalisation, accountability towards wider society. Unscheduled implementation of all measures and activities foreseen in the Education, Science and Technology Strategy. And here I would be so free to warn that this strategy that I mention in the last sentence has been adopted. We are obliged to act on that strategy. I can't read nearly 5,000 signatures in this short time, but I'm just saying one thing. We can't ignore these people's opinions, this is 5,000 people. This is the strongest academic potential Croatia has. That's the potential behind it. Let's try to ignore it and know that we're going in the wrong direction, the ship is sinking, my dears. If we throw the last life-saving belt we have on that ship and say the ship sinks, but that life-saving belt burdens it, we must throw it away, we will surely sink. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u325	Thank you. Now we'd move to the first point of today's agenda. Now we would move to the first point of today's agenda, which is - Proposal for a decision to declare 2016. "The year Nikola Šubić Zrinski" Proposer of the Decision is the Committee on Education, Science and Culture Proposing the Decision is the Committee on Education, Science and Culture based on Article 159. Rules of Procedure. The material was delivered to you in boxes. The government has delivered an opinion that has been shared on your benches. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. The Honorable Chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Ms. Rusak Gordana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6754	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm actually honored to be able to talk today about a subject that doesn't separate us, but I believe in unification. So I'm going to read a few sentences about this proposal. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament at the third session held on 23 February 2016 discussed the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts' initiatives and what is interesting about the mayor of Međimurje County sent to the President of the Parliament for the year 2016 Nikola Šubić Zrinski. From the historical point of view of 2016, it is an extremely important year for the Republic of Croatia since it symbolizes 450 anniversary of the Siget battle and the heroic defense of Siget from the Turks, and thus the anniversary of the death of Nikola Šubić Zrinski. Once again in history, Croatian people, Croatian blood defends Europe from killings in that case of Turks. In memory of the 450th anniversary of the Republic of Croatia and what is interesting to Hungary will be marked by a series of convenient events under the auspices of the President of the Republic of Croatia Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, Hungarian President Janos Ader and Turkish President Erdogan. Also in memory of the Siget Battle and the Zrinski family in 2016 will be held a series of scientific and cultural events. I will remind myself that Nikola Šubić Zrinski's head is buried in Međimurje County, and some of these activities will also be carried out in Čakovec. On the basis of the above, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture proposed that the year 2016 be declared Nikola Šubić Zrinski. And once again, I hope that this topic is the one that will unite us, where there won't be any opening wounds to history, to this near history, and it further clearly deserves our admiration and unites us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6755	Thank you very much. And we're moving on to a debate. First on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most esteemed Maro Kristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6756	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Allow me to say a few words, i.e. the position of MOST independent lists on the proposal to be declared in 2016 by Nikola Šubić Zrinski. So there is no doubt that this year's 450th anniversary of the Siget battle is extremely important not only for us Croats and our neighbours of Hungary but also for all peoples in Central Europe and the environment. This stopped the breakthrough of the invincible Turkish conquerors until then. What is more important is one example of the exceptional, personal heroism of Nikola Šubić Zrinski and his sacrifice for the Homeland. I'm sure these are the facts and values around which there is a consensus not only in this assembly but also far beyond in our entire society. It is therefore commendable to the HAZU and Međimurje County initiative to declare itself in 2016 Nikola Šubić Zrinski. However, I would like to draw attention to two things on this occasion today. First of all, in addition to the beautiful words, the appropriate wedding ceremony and scientific editions can still be done for our cultural heritage, which represents an extremely valuable part of what Zrinski left for us. An example such as Zrin na Banovina near Croatia Kostajnica, which was the seat of this great family and under which they were named. He is in ruins and in a difficult state, but with the help of the Ministry of Culture and Labour of the Croatian Restaurant Institute, archaeological research and work have been carried out there for years, but because of the small funds in the Croatian budget that are allocated for these works would take decades. Not far away, the castle of Gezdansko, which is also the scene of a similar heroism and does not call it the Croatian Alamo without reason. And it's also in a collapsed state. Would not the best way of respecting cultural heritage be for us in the Croatian Parliament and the Ministry of Culture in the next budget of 2017 to provide significant funds for their restoration and to put them into office as soon as possible and thus give recognition to Niko Šubic Zrinski and everything he has done for the Croatian homeland and to turn that value into one tourist attraction, as all countries in our environment do. Secondly, there is another very important jubilee that reminds us that the Croats made a great contribution to European culture, which is the Law on the Elimination of Slave Trade, which in January 1416 brought by the Grand Council of the Dubrovnik Republic. The Dubrovnik Republic has banned the purchase of slaves from the first countries in Europe and the world. She did it with a law that was passed on Monday exactly 600 years ago. This law is one of the many pioneer offerings of our ancestors and of the Croatian people in the whole of world and human heritage. The beginning of legal equality and human equality in Croatia. Its size bounces in light of the fact that England abolished the slave trade only 391 years behind and the Law of 1907. And the United States only did that 450 years after the Dubrovnik Republic, only in 1865. In this legal text, our ancestors expressed their relationship to slave trade in the early 15th century and pointed out that it is shameful, cruel, and inhumane and against every humanity. Today, however, it is also of great importance to us that it is a document that was already in the service of promoting human rights but also the building of a rule of law in which the rule of law belongs rather than human will. The reason for this great jubilee this year is unfortunately not mentioned in the expert and other scientific literature and inaccessible to the general public. This year, the Dubrovnik Diocese organizes a scientific conference whose patronage was accepted by the president of the Republic of Croatia. From this pay phone, therefore, if I can make a proposal to launch an initiative to also declare this year the Jubilee Year for the 600th anniversary of the abolition of the slave trade and to mark the Croatian Assembly with dignity and praise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6757	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the esteemed representative Željko Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6758	Every commendation to this initiative and we need to go a little deeper to solve some problems because Croatia still does not have a historic military museum. We're losing and remembering not only from this last war where the troops... Guard brigades, etc., but also from deeper history. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For example. We've got a beautiful battle where they're... The biggest... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] a galley in history, and unfortunately since we have destroyed this collective consciousness. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We know which chimney and Bosko Buha, we have never heard of Peter Rajkovčić, Odjak, the last battle of World War II, etc., Nito Galli and St. Trifon who attacked Turks there right wing, the greatest battle in marine history, galley etc.. This should continue, but you need to take down that burden of collective... And to move on, to create this Croatian military museum in ours, while we're alive, thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6759	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, the next one will speak for the esteemed representative Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6760	President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues. The SDP advocates' club will support the 2016 Proposal of a decision to declare Nikola Šubić Zrinski at the initiative of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts and the Međimurje Mayor of Mr Matija Posavac. We believe that in this way we will give an additional solemn pain, in fact all the merits Nikola Šubić Zrinski has for Croatia, not only for Croatia but also for European history, especially because in 2016, the 450th anniversary of the Siget battle, the battle in which the Turks thanks to Niko Šubić Zrinski stopped at the door in a way. Nikola Šubić Zrinski is celebrated as a national hero in Croatia and Hungary and for his own sake we call it so samurai death, i.e. the samurai mode of death is highly appreciated in Japan, he is especially respected. Along the street in Budapest, along the square in Zagreb and with the monument in Čakovec, we believe that by declaring such a decision, i.e. by unanimous decision of this Croatian Parliament, we will give our contribution, i.e. open the door to repay in one symbolic way what Nikola Šubić Zrinski has done for Croatia and for European history with numerous scientific, cultural and other events.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6761	Thank you very much. The next one will speak on behalf of HDZ representative the distinguished representative Sanja Putica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6762	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. So we have in front of us the commendable initiative of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, and especially because the Republic of Croatia and its history are rich in significant historical figures, scientists, cultural figures, artists who owe Croatian history, science and culture. Indeed, this is a valuable way of showing respect and memory for people of great importance for the Republic of Croatia. In 2011, in this House was declared the year of Ruđer Boskovic, Dubrovcani, the great Croatian physicist, mathematician, astronomer, poet, philosopher and diplomat and today we have a proposal to declare 2016 Nikola Šubić Zrinski. One of the most famous giants of Croatian history. Thanks also to the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament, which took over and unanimously adopted this initiative, according to the proposal for a Decision of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts and the Međimurje County. This announcement of the year Nikola Šubića Zrinski is an opportunity for our young people and our students to get to know more about the character and work of Nikola Šubić Zrinski because today he learns something about him in schools through Croatian language and literature and partly through music culture. There are usually two sections that are mentioned in Croatian literature of the poem "Opsada Sigeta" written by his great-grandfather Nikola Zrinski and "Conversation of the Nice People of Slavic" Andrija Kacic Miosic, who mentions in part the great historical work of Nikola Šubić Zrinski. We also heard historical facts and reasons why in 2016 we should declare Nikola Šubić Zrinski. It is a year that symbolizes the 450th anniversary of the Siget battle and the heroic defense of the Turks in a battle in which 2,500 soldiers, mostly Croats, under the leadership of Nikola Šubić Zrinski, resisted the siege of the Ottoman army under the command of Sulejman II for a month. Glorious. With this battle and the act of his death, Nikola Šubic Zrinski, we can say that he saved Hungary, Croatia and Austria from falling under Turkish power. It should be pointed out that Nikola Šubić Zrinski, according to his words, often clearly depicted and expressed the position in which the Croats were present at the time, and thus before this great and fateful Sigetski battle demanded of 2500 warriors to promise him obedience but before that, he swore himself that he would be with them until his heroic death. Since the superior Turks tried to siege Siget as soon as possible to hit Vienna with their 300 cannons, they repeatedly beat Siget and asked tired comrades about the help they could hope for, Nikola Šubic Zrinski answered in a symbolic sentence, "God is high, and the king is far away." The HDZ Club supports the proposal of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament to declare itself in 2016 Nikola Šubić Zrinski and we know that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has also given a positive opinion at this week's session on this event and that the central event of the celebration this year and 450th anniversary of the heroic defence of Siget will take place on 7 September 2016 in the presence of sponsors of the celebration, as already said by the Hungarian president, Turkish President and President of the Republic of Croatia Mrs. Kolinda Grabar-Kitarović. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6763	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6764	Thank you very much. It's really nice to talk about our history that we've forgotten for decades. Not to go back to history but because of the future, here is now when we hear about the year of Nikola Šubić Zrinski 450 years ago in the fight for the freedom of the Croatian people, when we hear 600 years ago that the Dubrovnik Republic is the Law on the Elimination of Slaves long before the United States, when we look at numerous battles in the fight for the preservation of Western Europe, modern civilization, Sinjska Alku, which also symbolizes the spirit of chivalry, humanity, the Christian spirit, which is connected and symbolizes the survival of the Croatian man in this area. Last year was the 300th anniversary, this year is the 300th anniversary of the coronation of the miraculous lady of Sinjska. The defenders gathered gold in this battle to thank our miraculous Lady Sinjska and crowned her in the 9th month, this year will mark this great and significant manifestation of religious importance and connection means Christianity and preservation against the fight against the Turks. I hope that this event, which symbolizes what I said, will also be as Dr. Francis Tudjman in '90. The year symbolising the survival and humanity of the Croatian people in these areas also the Croatian Parliament accepts the role of being one of the patrons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6765	Thank you very much. The next one will speak on behalf of HNS MP Stefanija Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6766	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am proud that Međimurje Mayor Matija Posavec has given the initiative in co-operation with HAZU to declare the year 2016 Nikola Šubic Zrinski. Nikola Šubić Zrinski is certainly one of the most significant figures of Croatian history, which is a symbol of the courage and heroism of the Croatian people. From the historical point of view of 2016 it is extremely important for the Republic of Croatia since it symbolizes the 450th anniversary of the Siget battle, or the heroic defense of Siget from the Turks and thus the anniversary of the death of Nikola Šubić Zrinski. Freedom, patriotism, courage and willingness to sacrifice their own lives are just some of the values symbolized by Nikola Šubić Zrinski. By stopping in 1566, the powerful Turkish army Nikola Shubic Zrinski entered world history and sparked admiration for Europe as a whole. Because of its courage and honorable death in Europe's defence of the Turks, the character and work of Nikola Šubic Zrinski has found its worshipers around the world. So it's in distant Japan from the opera Ivan Pl. Zajca Nikola Šubić Zrinski arija "To fight, to fight!" performed by a Japanese men's choir composed of 1,000 members. The 450th anniversary of the Republic of Croatia and Hungary will be marked by a series of appropriate events under the auspices of the President of the Republic of Croatia, Mrs Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, Hungarian and Turkish president. In memory of the Siget battle and the Zrinski family in 2016, numerous scientific gatherings will be held, monuments will be set, operas performed and main celebrations will be held in Zagreb and Čakovec. In 2016, Nikola Šubić Zrinski's announcement and the celebration of this significant jubilee would give higher height and also remind you of values that are historically symbolized by the character and work of Nikola Šubić Zrinski. With the international aspect of the proposed decision, the Republic of Croatia will be further positioned and promoted not only in Europe but also wider. And also when there is a vote, I thank everyone who will give support for the 2016 announcement of Nikola Šubić Zrinski. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6767	Thank you very much. We have one replica she is a respected representative and vice president of the Croatian Parliament of Ivan Tepeš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6768	Here's the esteemed president, colleagues and fellow MPs I'd just like to look back on this part. I fully support everything that will happen this year and here I am pleased that what has already been said that the various political options have actually been included as different institutions than the mayor of Međimurje, the president, and the mayor of Zagreb himself. I would only appeal to one thing even though it is more in the city of Zagreb's control, but here I am in communication with the people of the organisational committee, so that now here is the way from the Croatian Parliament I am a little appealing to the city of Zagreb to work as soon as possible to create a monument on Zrinjevac. In fact, the city of Zagreb took such a commitment back in 1879, but here it was because of the earthquake in Zagreb, the First World War and all that was happening in the 20th century, unfortunately, it failed to realize it. Now it is somehow here with regard to this anniversary and that all the institutions of the president are included, so here are the Croatian Parliament and the mayors, it was good to send a message here from the Parliament somehow. And we appeal to the city of Zagreb and to all of our parties who participate in the political life of the city of Zagreb, to be realised as soon as possible and as soon as possible. I know it's gonna be hard when it's in September this year's anniversary, but here's to opening up the work in September and doing it on one symbolic level. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6769	Thank you very much especially for that very valuable suggestion. And now we're moving on to individual debates. First came the distinguished representative Marko Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6770	Thank you, Mr. President. Here is the MOST of Independent Lists, which supports this initiative and believes that Nikola Šubic Zrinski should be internationalised. It was already said that he was very popular in Japan because of his samurai death. It's amazing how Nikola Šubic Zrinski actually attracts all generations. I took my eighth graders to the opera six months ago, and I have to say that I was skeptical that teenagers when I was 14 could watch the opera calmly for three hours. However, I remained fascinated by how they saw it and how interesting it was to them. When I was preparing for this individual debate, I took a book from Slaven Letica "Let Over the Coward's Nest" in which there is a rank list of eternal and posthumous glory. It is usually an extremely demanding job of entering data processing about street names, squares, Croatian cities. It was carried out by Maja Trogrlić from the Office for Business Research, which I thank this way. And according to this rank of eternal and post-mortem glory, Nikola Šubić Zrinski is 34 places away. Matija Gobec, for example, comes first. However, I would like to use it here when I was looking at that list of ranks of eternal and posthumous glory there are almost 300 names. There are very few people in them who, in some way, would like to promote the Most in the coming years and the Croatian Parliament, which were people who were historically against both regimes. I will now briefly promote them and invite the Croatian Parliament to open round tables on them next year. Here's how we're going to use Nikola Šubic Zrinski for this initiative of ours. The first is Ante Ciliga, born Istrian, one of the organizers of the event against fascist terror in Istria. He was one of the founders and editors of the Zagreb newspaper "The Fight" of the communist party's official vote, as he specifically devoted himself to discussions on national issues. He was already condemning the Marxist economic defence of Serbian hegemony and was expelled because of his revolutionary action from the Kingdom of Yugoslavia to the Soviet Union. There was an associate with Lava Trotsky, and for support he was arrested and put in camp. Later, he goes to Paris and separates there with Trotsky and remains left-handed in the development of his beliefs. But it comes to the communist party of heretic conclusion that a single-party system should be abandoned for the benefit of multilaterals. That's what thesis says in the book "In the Land of Great Lies". So in 1938, before Alexander Solzhenicin criticises the communist regime and characterises it as totalitarian. In 1941 he returned to Zagreb and was arrested there by the Ustasha regime and released. After the war, he lives permanently in Rum where he works and works and often writes about the position of Croats in Yugoslavia and also writes critically about Tito's relationship with the Croatian issue. His texts have a dramatic sound because they come from the feathers of a consistent leftist intellectual. In particular, he exposed Serbian politics under the cover of communism. He returned to free Croatia in 1990 and died in Zagreb in 1992. The next year is 25 years since his death, I call on the Parliament to contribute to the evaluation of Ante Ciliga in the fight against totalitarianism. Another case was Mr. Ilija Jakovljevic, who, therefore, ended up in the Ustasha camp, wrote the book "Logor na Savi" and eventually exposed the regime and later ended up in a communist camp where he died. So, in principle, I would like to say that here I call on the Croatian Parliament to, through the persons of the two, call on their political action to be more tolerance in Croatian society and to look back in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6771	Thank you very much. We have one replica. I have to say the discussion wasn't very closely related to the subject or beyond, but good. We're casual in this House, and we've got a lot of breadth, so let's go. Please report to the replica, the esteemed representative Andrija Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6772	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, the replica goes in terms of course we support what you're saying. On that first part, I'm going to get a little more reference. I speak here as a parliamentary representative but also as vice president of the City of Zagreb Assembly. I would like to say about Zrinski this initiative Zrinski on Zrinski for the monument is absolutely a good quality thing and it should be achieved. In 1879, the city of Zagreb took the responsibility but let us remember earthquakes, historical events, first world war, etc. All that was, the former state, so totalitarian regimes simply forgot it at one point. That's absolutely what it's all about and it's supposed to work, but it seems to me it's going too slow. In 2013, an initiative was launched, and I would like to say, the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts of Croatia and the second, a commission was formed at the Croatian Academy and Academyman Kusic even proposed Zrinski's year and that's good. And finally, I believe that this monument needs a strong wind in the sails to make all this happen and we should never forget those people in history who have left an indelible mark.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6773	Thank you very much. I think it is good that you emphasized this because the town of Zagreb unfortunately Zrinjevac, named after him, has no monument of his. But the City of Zagreb unfortunately has no monument to the founder of the Croatian state of Dr. Francis Tudjman. So we're missing a lot obviously what it's supposed to be. But the next individual debate was attended by distinguished representative Ivan Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6774	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Here I will look back on Croatia's relationship to Croatian history and in some ways explain why we have such a relationship with the Homeland War when we have a relationship with the Zrinski family. So, if by any chance the famous Zrinski family lived in France today hundreds of books and dozens of films were written, at least 50 museums were opened. All legacy would be thoroughly renovated and presented to the public. The state, through cultural content associated with Zrinski, would gain a great reputation and tourism would earn an enormous amount. We do not need to compare ourselves with the French because even our neighbours, Slovenians and Hungarians, have done more incomparably in protecting their historical treasure from Croatia. It's enough to look at, say, castles and museums in Murska Sobota and... and see how in a decent and smart way you should treat your own tradition and your own past. [[You don't understand.]] There the state invested appropriate funds in maintaining its own identity and now literally streams of guests and tourists are pouring in and waiting in large ranks. And how do we treat our culture and our history, specifically the Zrinski family? Zrinski was appreciated by French kings, popes, the whole of Europe, even by their opponents over the centuries. The whole family died on the Croatian defender. And what, in particular, did we do today to give them the proper honor? It's a public secret that we haven't even been able to process the archive structure on Zrinski, let alone restore the building or other material heritage. There's no sign of cultural tourism. We have an opera from the 19th century, we haven't even managed to set the monuments right, as this one mentioned earlier on Zrinjevac. Part of the monuments we have were built by the Hungarians. And even today, fresh weddings from Hungary are more often found in them than in Croatia. I would like to say I have been in Čakovec many times on the monument of Niko Zrinski, not this Šubić but his great-grandson in Čakovec every day you have a fresh Hungarian wedding with a Hungarian flag, and Croatian one here and there. We have a beautiful castle and Zrinski headquarters in Čakovec which is about to collapse. The first earthquake in Međimurje will turn the castle into dust and ash. Just recently, a large portion of the external misery broke down. There is almost everything in bad shape, derutically and wetly, unrenewed and untapped. The museum lineup is completely inadequate, Zrinski is spoken of very little, no attraction to anyone. For decades, the management of the museum has been one and the same, incompetent, director even participates in physical accounts with his own employees. For years, the Ministry of Culture has allocated too little funds to rebuild Zrinski's castles. Why such important issues want to be transferred to EU funds, obviously of which there is little use for it. What makes the castles and museums Zrinski leave themselves to anyone other than the state when it comes to the legacy of the national one, free to say European importance? Why preparations to mark the 450th anniversary of the Battle of Siget, so Zrinski's years did not start until 2, 3 years ago and why adequate budgets were not foreseen for this purpose. So already 2016 we declare this year which already enters its second quarter of the year Nikola Šubić Zrinski. Our relationship with the past means that at the last minute we are trying to invent something convenient but not to make anything fundamentally change in relation to our past and Zrinski, but to allow individuals to fight for political points through cosmetic markings, so that someone with the help of Zrinski might be news from one day to another. Again, I ask the question, so long-term strategy towards our past and the preservation of the famous tradition of Zrinski. Do we respect the fact that Zrinski also chaired this Croatian Assembly over almost two centuries? Do we know that the kind of cult Zrinski is responsible for the creation of the Croatian Army and the Croatian state itself that we have today? Isn't it a shame that, on such an important issue, citizens' associations and individuals from the rest of the ministries and other institutions have become more engaged? For all of these reasons, I call on this esteemed House, the representation of our entire people and national minorities to set a long-term strategy for the entire legacy of the Zrinski family and not just one anniversary. Let the scientific and cultural research on Zrinski in the reconstruction and presentation of the preserved and will undoubtedly result in multiple benefits. In addition to certain social achievements, I am sure that by linking those with tourist facilities, investment will bring an appropriate financial benefit. So ladies and gentlemen fellow MPs say globally except for these examples you've cited, no one knows about the Battle of Sigget and everyone knows what Alamo is. We still don't have a real movie about the Homeland War without talking about the Zrinski family. So let's use what we can, not just in culture, but above all and in tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6775	Thank you very much. We've got a few replicas, the first one's the distinguished representative of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6776	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Sincic, it is not easy to reconstruct such a complex as Zrinski property in Čakovec. Since the mid-80s, projects have been done to rebuild both old towns and chapels in Shenkovec where Zrinski was buried. I must say that the Zrinski family has marked the entire centuries of history of Čakovec and Međimurje and that both our museum and the town of Čakovec and the county are making great efforts to mark it with dignity. We also have certain contacts with museums in the Hungary area because Zrinski as Croatian banks were also the great mayors of Zala County. It therefore appears to be as much as possible and some funding is continuously received from the state budget, however, it is not possible to be renewed in one year or in a few years. So it's far more demanding both construction and other procedures. Zrinski held several meetings of the Croatian Assembly in Čakovec as bans and we appreciate it very much, and it would be good to have certain activities in the town of Čakovec sometimes because this would contribute not only as a cultural and historical event but also as something that would present this region in the northwest of Croatia. Our museum, which is actually taking care of the Old Town and this pledge chapel Zrinski, has entered a project of the northwestern Croatian Museum and it is a very demanding and expensive project to be financed from the European Union funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6777	Thank you very much, the honourable representative Ivan Sincic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6778	Thank you, Mr. President. Well it is generally known and everyone, I believe I have such an impression that our Croatia is not branded enough in the world, it is not yet recognizable enough. You see, when you go across Central Europe, every noble family and every castle, any part of the past is tried to make the most of it for tourist purposes and it is branded directly through tourism and that country, that city. And like I said, tourists are waiting in line. And with us, we know the state of the castles, we know what the dedication of the museums is, and it could be much greater.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6779	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative and vice president of the Parliament, Ivan Tepeš.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6780	Dear colleague Sincic, I would only be able to relate myself, i.e. replicate this part of your relationship with Croatia with my past. I couldn't agree more. I'd just like to mention a few things. You mentioned France, we can also mention England, here you have now mentioned Central Europe but we must be aware of the fact that the problems of Croatia and its past have been determined in fact during these centuries that Croatia was not an independent state, it was not, let's say independent kings, nor principalities, nor any other form during the feudal era. And then what happened was that as the political option came, the ruler of the house through history put her paw on that of our Croatia was also the relationship in that period towards those historical figures which therefore responded to or did not respond to that political or foreign force. Thus, from decades to decades, centuries ago, positive or negative images of certain historical people have been created accordingly to their property or properties in this case to the castles. What is somehow important to me in my court for 25 years is a very short period if we look at it in a historical context, but I think enough period to see here if anything else to look at today's Croatian history and Croatian past regardless of the position of the left, right. There must be one national consensus. We must have our greats. If we consider ourselves a great nation, for me we are a great and old Croatian nation, unfortunately few. We have to have that one common line regardless of left, right. Here's what the President of the Croatian Parliament just said. It's a pity we're going down on the first exam. The first Croatian president in Zagreb does not have an adequate monument, and I think we are all aware that he is with Croatian defenders and politicians and all who were actors, but primarily he is the leading figure most responsible for the modern Croatian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6781	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Ivan Sincic will respond. He won't. The next replica is the respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6782	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague, I would agree with part of your debate when you appealed to the necessity of cultural tourism. However, I would still have to refer to that if you had said that the heritage was not sufficiently renewed. I have to admit, I've been dealing with this for over 20 years. I'll just tell you that you forgot to mention that according to the State Commission's assessment of war damage on cultural goods, Croatia suffered direct damages worth 360m euros, 360m euros of direct war damage during the Homeland War. Only the cost of rebuilding Eltz Castle is 125 million kuna. And this is one of the reasons why a large part of the funds had to be invested there over several years in order not to increase the damage especially when you look that only around Pula you have about 100 fortification facilities related only to the history of the Navy and Austria-Hungarian, that only in Croatia you have over a hundred castles and houses. That in the vicinity of Karlovac you have dozens of representative fortresses, that you have important monuments, forts such as the Irony in Croatia, the Sisak Fortress. Just look at the castle of Ozalj. That's tens and tens of millions of kunas. Speaking of cultural heritage management, speaking of cultural heritage management, I absolutely agree with you. However, I also think that not every castle can be a museum, because I do not believe that it can always be promoted to a tourist destination. What cultural tourism has an invaluable chance is in 2020 when Croatia can get the European Capital of Culture and will get it. And that's a chance in the right sense of the word to get out of culture and a great economic and tourist benefit not only in the city that happens, but in the whole Republic. And I think that we all need to prepare for it together both in the heritage sense and in culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6783	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Miroslav Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6784	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Sincic, you have made quite a reference in your presentation to the relationship to material goods related to the Zrinski family itself. And I think we really need to take care of that. But on the other hand, I think that the initiators of this kind of marking are such a significant historical person, so I can say the whole family wanted to say something about the values that these people lived and that this year's marking on behalf of Nikola Šubic Zrinski is actually a message to think a little bit about these values. It is primarily the value of courage and love for your country, loyalty, faith. That's what Nikola Šubic Zrinski really lived. I'd like to take this opportunity of a replica to say if some may not have figured out what a fellow representative of Sladolev was going to say with his exposure. We, by his exposure, wanted to warn that there are other people who have sent us clear messages of values worth living for and worth dying for in the end. And I think his exposure has something to do with this subject. I agree with Mr. Sincic that we should take care of the heritage of the entire Zrinski family. And here at the end of my line I would like to remind his lawyer Nikola Zrinski and one of his sentences, which many believe here is known. By the way, I'm aware that I know and I won't deny that I'm a Croat and Zrinski. It's another message that I think should be answered by all of us MPs here in our ears regardless of nationality. We are citizens of this country and our country is Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6785	Thank you very much. The next debate is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6786	Thank you very much, Mr. President, fellow MPs and fellow MPs. Indeed this year to be dedicated to Niko Šubic Zrinski, means that we should look at the history of the Croatian people in the present areas and areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that in the nine-century struggle for the independence of the Republic of Croatia, many people, many battles, the entire Croatian people gave great sacrifices, and all in the struggle for independence and freedom we experienced and welcomed in the 1990s by Dr Franjo Tuđman and Croatian defenders for the first time together and on the same side and not sharing. This is why our history is important, which is why our year is important when we see how many important people we have left behind their lives and have embroiled into the foundations of the Croatian state through this history that was ruthless, our people were ruthless in the 9th century living in difficult conditions, in war areas. So we can list numerous battles from Dubrovnik to Vukovar through this history, numerous cultural and significant fortifications, events. And surely we must speak to our children because the question is how much our children know about our history. And surely this is the way when we declare a year after a significant man, a family who laid down their lives and put into the foundations of the Croatian state that it is a message that Croats should not be ashamed of their history. This should be continued as a colleague here has now said many people who have been forgotten that we must remember them and remember them. Because she has this old saying, "You shouldn't live in the past, but whoever doesn't know his past won't even have a future." That's why the Croatian people are like the old people in these places and we're like this generation who's lucky for all the victims to experience freedom, to be free to care and hold it like a drop of water in the palm of our hand. When it comes to our greats, when it comes to culture, when it comes to presentation i.e. cultural tourism really has something to show the whole of Europe and the world. We were on the defender of European Western civilization. That's what Nikola Shubić Zrinski showed for his life. I mentioned earlier that we have a Sinj Alka that marked 300 years last year where 600 defenders refused to attack 60 thousand Turks at the time, 60 cannons. Of course, as our great-grandfathers left it written with the help of our protégé of a miraculous lady of the blue who was crowned this year, 300 years of coronation by a miraculous lady of Sinj in her thanks. These great-grandfather warriors have taken down their faiths, gold, and this is one great event that symbolizes our nation, our faith, our survival in these areas. It's all useless, all those victims if we forget these people. It's hard to name all the names from Istria to Slavonia, but we have to remember them. We must remember that the Croatian man, the Croatian people, was divided. So let's remember World War II in the last century when they were brothers in Ustashas and other brothers in the Partisans. Unfortunately, we were divided. That time we will have to simply see when we are divided that the brother to the brother, the Croats to the Croats must not go regardless of political commitment, regardless of the national nature of course was minority, of course they are citizens of Croatia. That we simply must together, and we must simply study this and this is the Homeland War. 9th century Nikola Šubić Zrinski, Ante Starčević and numerous people who left a great mark in Croatian history until Dr. Franje Tuđman, who is the first president of the Republic of Croatia, means the one who has succeeded with Croatian defenders in achieving the dream of 9th century that we must put it in the right place. But not just to be in the right place, if we're ashamed of our history, and if we don't talk about it together in this way like today, then our great-grandfathers have given their lives in vain. So let's guard our cultural heritage and not be ashamed of our history. One who's ashamed, who doesn't know his history has no future. But we can't live in history but learn from history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6787	Thank you. We have a few replicas. The first is the distinguished representative of Jasna Matulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6788	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Bulj you have made an excellent introduction to the importance of Nikola Šubić Zrinski in the past and connected it through this tradition so that we can rise to today's history. I would like to highlight further that, in fact, other than cultural heritage, other than this historical importance, we can add importance as potential and that is entrepreneurship. So, we can use this brand to develop entrepreneurship and not only entrepreneurship but even economic potential with the fact that, apart from honor, we can assume a commitment, which is to connect to each other and make this year's tourist cultural event an opportunity to connect and in all the theatres be the performances of Nikola Šubić Zrinski, that all summer games have this on their stage, that all the catering facilities have food that has been eaten since then, that all the tourist agencies are encouraged to make trips to destinations and meet and that part, we encourage the rural tourism in the places where he passed, lived and fought Nikola Šubić Zrinski. Yes fairs, therefore touristic in the world that are now happening where we promote the country, that in addition to the classical approach we have the land of Nikola Šubić Zrinski. These are incredible potentials that we can use. I hope that Nikola Šubić Zrinski will not blame us for not taking him in a bad way but is one way of contributing and promoting our Croatia. And how he used to defend us that now he's actually uniting us. This could also do a lot on the brand of Croatia that is not recognizable in the world yet, and this is one way to make a very culturally good point. The second thing is, there is also a dimension of interstate cooperation because Hungarians celebrate it as much as we do, as their hero, and that is the potential for cross-border cooperation and a series of other international projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6789	Thank you. It's the next replica. The answer to the esteemed Mira Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6790	Here I agree with my colleague that through a tourist offer, the gastro offer of that time can certainly be presented through this historical spirit, meaning that it can be done. But it is a job, meaning that the Ministry of Culture and the Tourist Community or the Ministry of Tourism can be more presented both in the local and foreign audiences. Of course, the entrepreneurial spirit is being implemented in these areas as you said where the Subić Zrinski family lived and at other locations. We already have in some parts of our country but very little is used there where the forts, forts, where they were important where there could be one kind and employment of our people, of course, and in these border areas they could stay people and earn money. Everything will be pointless if we don't have people living in those places. And that is why this initiative of yours is very commendable, but there is also a synergy to work with the Ministry of Tourism, the tourist community must accept that it is not only Istria and Dalmatia a tourist situation, that we also have other very important tourist sites. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6791	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6792	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Bulj, you spoke of the importance of history for national and cultural identity. In this context, however, a question of Parliament's responsibility can be asked in fact to make one calendar for the marking of all important anniversarys and events concerning national and cultural identity. Because if you want this proposal, this year to declare Zrinski's year is actually late because it's already been a third of the year. So this one calendar of all important anniversarys and how it will be marked I think we should ask the competent, or relevant cultural institutions of the Croatian Academy of Science and Art, of the lexiographic institute that has probably the most fiction and can prepare it in a short time to get one if you want under quotes or without quotes rules as to how the anniversary is marked, probably not every year, but when it comes to these past events from the past, some kind of round anniversary. And on the other hand, to know what is marked at Parliament level and what, that is, the Parliament declares as a year and what other institutions or state bodies or local administrations and self-government are, why they are in charge. It could then further be updated and sought out the necessary events, i.e. the monument to be erected or otherwise recognized.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6793	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Miro Bulj will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6794	Mr. Tudjman, I would like to agree with you that in the past terms a lot of history has been forgotten, this is the House, the highest, honorable House of the Croatian Parliament, which should have taken much more care not to forget our history and I repeat again because of the future. Your initiative and your proposal is good. Therefore, either the commission, the expert commission with people should be extended to all competent and professional institutions, within the Parliament or to a separate committee or to the Committee for these dates, years, markings. This could be within, and could be representatives of all the political options within that commission so that we ourselves rush and update that calendar that should be defined. He has to be defined because he's going to happen again in some kind of change that he's going to forget all of this. This... was defined and future, beyond other choices, when they were other fellow parliamentary representatives to simply take care of our history and all because of our children and the truth and all because of the future. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, I would agree that some commission or within the committee of expert and competent people should, in cooperation with the institutions, make that calendar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6795	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished MPs Gordana Rusak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6796	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Your Honor. My colleague Bulj encouraged me to think, he actually mentioned a fact that is generally well known but nothing has worked on it for years. So, indeed, our children know France or England or German history better than Croatian history. They know all the dynasties that inherited each other, who married whom he married, married. But if you were to ask them now what they know at Niko Shubić Zrinski they would probably tie it wrong with the plot of Zrinsko Frankopanski, not connecting at all that there are no points of contact historically other than genealogies. So it is indeed the knowledge of our Croatian history by our children at an unsatisfactory level and I can only hope that this curricula which is made will recognize it and that there will be some changes and that historians have seen it and that the profession will say its own. And he'll be on the board to discuss it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6797	Thank you. They will answer the distinguished Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6798	My colleague Rusak would agree with you that we prefer.../The speaker does not understand. In this House as Croatian, representatives of the Croatian people of the foreign word, I prefer the obvious that we ourselves in this House should use Croatian words more, talk more about Croatian history as is the example today, and this initiative is good. And it is such a trend that he prefers to say who is the son of the queen I do not know which state, but who in history was the hero and who was responsible for the freedom of the Croatian people. And we have to change that as in education, you are there expert and you know what you are talking about, both through education and in all institutions and at all levels, we must, as Mr. Tudjman said just before and Mr. Sladoljev speak and remember our ancestors who left us our Croatian state, and all by sacrificing himself here until the first Croatian president and the 1990s. I fully agree that we have neglected our own history that we must not be ashamed of and should not be ashamed of. And I'm going to repeat by not knowing which time, and all because of the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6799	Thank you. The next replica is that of House Vice President Ivan Tepeš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6800	Here's a thank you. Before the replica itself, only two things. I wouldn't agree with the last debate. I don't know if you know about the documentary "Croatian Kings" excellent series in Croatian production. I had the opportunity to look at the history of Chanel, so he was not only depicted on Croatian radio and I would not agree with this finding if he did not care about Croatian history. And I think children know Croatian history better than world history, but of course that should be done much more. And I support Dr. Tudjman's initiative to mark the date, and this way I would also like to commend the President of the Parliament for marking the Croatian Parliament's 120th anniversary of Dr. Ante Starcevic's death. It is for the first time that such a high-level state delegation came to Dr Ante Starcevic's grave. He's the father of the Homeland. In the 19th century there was no division of left and right, and I hope that this will continue in the future regardless of the future that the Croatian Parliament will lead. I'd just climb up and replicate my colleague Bula when he's talking about divisions. A necessary look at the past and the conflict between the two sides don't have to be divided today. As far as I'm aware, the president of Turkey is participating in this anniversary. So that's one interesting thing. That's when we got into a fight, and this brought us together. As far as I know, don't take my word for it, and there was a Turkish ambassador or someone in the Turkish state lying about it. But therefore, the battle facing the two armies, their descendants today used it to socialize together and that this conflict several hundred years ago would be some original basis for community. I don't think I owe it any longer, that it's a lesson to all of us for some of the things in Croatian history.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6801	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Miro Bulj will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6802	Well, of course, in this first part, you didn't replicate me, so about Dr. Anti Starčević, I won't show myself to Father of the Homeland, but of course it's the Father of the Homeland, and it needs to be written about him, teaching our children how to love the Croatian Homeland. And of course we have to promote... School, education, national identity and love for our country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course we can't right now, we have to have normal relations with Turkey and he was an ambassador to Turkey at Sinjska alca. And we're not saying now that we're having war relations with them, but that's why we shouldn't be ashamed of our history. We must be proud of our history. Well, we've defended Western Europe which is... The Croatian people, so this must be seen exactly along the borders with Bosnia and Herzegovina as far as the Turkish Empire would be, and we must be proud of what Europe is in fact now, we are the defender of that time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And those are the facts. And of course we'll have good relations with both the Turkish embassy and their state and that he's been to Sinjska alca and to be on all occasions and events. Well, we've always been humanitarian, we should forgive ourselves, but we must not forget because we have to learn mostly in schools that it develops a feeling of love for the Homeland in our children and the youngest. That's why these events matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6803	Thank you. And the last replica of Honorable representative Antun Vidakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6804	Thank you, Mr. President. It's not a replica, it's like other colleagues' contributions in some way, one short-term contribution without going into an individual debate. We are certainly joining this commendable initiative. Šubići, therefore, unsuspected, is without a doubt the strongest Croatian noble family, but the birthplace of Nikola Šubića Zrinski is Zrin, it is in the area of my county which until 1943 had 850 inhabitants, 143 families. Then in September, unfortunately, there was an unfavorable incident by the Partisans, they raided that village, exiled all the population, killing 213 people. To this day there is no town marked and I think few people in this hall know that the birthplace of Nikola Šubića Zrinski or else the Shubici are a little further south than... So far, it has not been marked properly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we're talking about the year of Nikola Šubic Zrinski's safe in that story should be found, of course it always costs, of course it requires financial resources. I don't think we should be sorry about that right now this year. And that's exactly the year to show what's moving from the beginning, so that's where he was born. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6805	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Miro Bulj will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6806	A fellow crime is a crime against a man, and on a cultural good there is an even greater crime. So the Croats are over all of their space throughout history is much congested by the enemies of these times of cultural goods. So both in World War II and in the Homeland War where the Serb forces meant to break up our religious, cultural, significant monuments. And it's very ugly when some people treat another people that way. The Croats have always defended themselves throughout history. And we have to be proud of that. They were never conquerors. And that's a fact. All victims should bow down, we should go forward together but from history we must learn as I have said again because of the future and our children in the schools since birth, from kindergarten we must teach national pride and respect for the homeland and repeat them but exclusively the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6807	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the individual debate. Now the word will be taken by the honourable representative Željko Glasnovnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6808	Dear President, I am pleased that our relationship to our history is slowly changing, it takes time. Today we learned that the Croat still cannot return to Zrin, very few people know. Unfortunately, most children today will learn that today is the day of the Paris community, and they have never heard of the Exquisite Battle and the issue of our military history. It's a specific history, there's a drop in Siget... category. [[You don't understand.]] When we look at other countries that have created a methodology like Alamo where 200 drunk Texans fought against 2,000 Mexicans, go there and see how many tourists are coming there. Look... in Paris, etc. [[You don't understand.]] And look at the Vienna Military Museum where there's a large part of our historical heritage, military historical heritage, you have four wings of ground military, air force and navy. I think we need one synergy between the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Tourism and Culture to see what we can do about our military history. These projects can be separated from the Department of Defense. When you look at today, look at Srđ in Dubrovnik, how many tourists are looking up, and it's unthinkable for me that this city gets millions and millions of euros every year that I can't make up a military museum. Look at Turanj how many tourists from Karlovac up there stand to watch this. Inconceivable, there's no charge for tickets as far as I know, etc. It should be mentioned when we were already talking about the lack of care about our history, let's say Iron, when we mention Siget where in 1578 300 Croatian soldiers fought 10 thousand Turks all died and they were buried by a Turkish commander with all Christian honors. Who ever heard of... This hero in Croatian? [[You don't understand.]] Not only that, that eradication of our collective memory, I would return to the archives in Belgrade where 50% of our World War II state archives are in Belgrade and are being manipulated to this day. And Croatia has the right to return the archive to the former state of Yugoslavia by agreement. I don't know what you're doing about it. It's totally neglected. I would like to draw attention to the city of Zagreb where most people do not know because all the cemetery of Croatian soldiers after '45 has been overrun. For example, the homestead cemetery, etc. has been overrun. We don't know where Cvitan Galic was buried, who crashed more planes on the Russian front in general in World War II than any commander of the old Allied Air Force. And we know who Vlado Ranogaec is, the judge who sentenced hundreds of people to death, a military judge in '45. In May, there is a New Wes military prison in the city of Zagreb. It's that imbalance in history. And whoever controls the past controls the future, that's what Orwell said. I hope that we will continue at this pace and that all of our history will be watched without prejudice and that all documents from World War II will be revealed and no longer be manipulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6809	Thank you. We left a little bit of the topic again, but here comes the replica of the distinguished representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6810	In short, I would just say that I would agree that throughout history very little is known about the Croatian soldier, not only in the Homeland War. And we're already forgetting that a little bit unfortunately. But throughout history, a Croatian soldier is forgotten in the present. We've got some kind of historical unit now, Kliška jumps, Sinjska alka, we've got some but it's all very little and miserable and very little we present this proud historical unit of ours. Well, we know that there was a historical unit in the president's office for a while that they were marginalized. Now I hope that this will go well again and that our role as soldiers through history will mainly in the Homeland War but throughout history be more known to the Croatian public, mostly the youngest. And yet I repeat without a Croatian soldier through history we would not be here today, the Croatian people would be gone. And that's what we need to base on, on these heroes and on historical battles, we need to base the present but go into the future. Not to live in the past but to go brave in the future. Because when we remember how many gave their lives to be free today, we have nothing to fear from the Croats but just step forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6811	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed Mare Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6812	The esteemed colleague Glasnović for this kind of replica I decided because on the occasion of your debate you mentioned the city of Dubrovnik and the Museum of Homeland War which should be located in the central position of the fortress Imperial on Srđa, where the defense of Dubrovnik was actually secured, where the city of Dubrovnik was defended. What I wanted to tell you, I just wanted to show you the example of the relationship to the cultural heritage and history of the Homeland War and, in some ways, were the Croatian governments and politicians in the city of Dubrovnik. In fact, you've probably had a chance to track from the media that this area on the Srđa plateau is also the fortress Imperial days in a concession to a private investor who has his bills on Virgin Islands. And now, unfortunately, that private investor is destroying our country's war, destroying everything our brave defenders have done and providing us with freedom in the Homeland War. And therefore, in the future of the Croatian Parliament, I believe I will also ask my colleague Sanja Putica for help to correct the injustice that is happening to us. Because unfortunately, where the Homeland War Museum is supposed to be today, the private investor is putting in his commercial content projects and pushing the position of the Homeland War museums into those areas that are not even legally solved. Here's so much, thank you for touching the Homeland War, touching Dubrovnik. And I hope that I will also have the help of this Croatian Parliament to correct this injustice and that Dubrovnik defenders will receive their monument through that museum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6813	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed Ante Mayor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6814	Your Honor. I would refer to General Glasovic's proposal on the importance of the military history museum. Military history is the backbone of general history. Here is the battle led by Nikola Šubić Zrinski with Sulejman the Great, so the statesman and military leader who represents the top of the imperial power of the Ottoman Empire, the circumstance that he failed to come forward, and perhaps even to Vienna, is only that he was detained for a month, beyond that circumstances, that he died in fact and his great vizier Mehmed-pasa Sokolović brought him back and brought back the whole army just because he was hiding the death because of the dynasty struggles, etc.. 40 years before that in... Nikola Jurisic stopped the same, rising up to mean when he came to the power of Sulajman the Great. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So in this part alone, military history represents the key points of general history. And I am not a pedagogue, so to give ideas now that pedagoggy should be established in a chronological sense, but this idea with the museum is very important especially what within Croatia, Croatian troops are, it is an immeasurable number, it is now not a moment to list, but let's just say it is a little bit known to us that they had great meaning in Europe in the 30th annual war. So in this sense, I join the idea, I know it's big, extensive, but one idea that the general's proposal might be done in a way that's done with style or style.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6815	Thank you. The next debate is the esteemed representative of Goran Dodig.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6816	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. As you can see, I applied for an individual debate even though I could speak for the club and simply because it seemed to me that the debates were going on at the very beginning, I would say almost, almost unison that there was no point in repeating. And that's why, at the very beginning, I congratulate everyone who spoke because they really all spoke well in my deep conviction and I thank all those who came to listen to this. It's obviously not much of an interest in this subject. Although it is an extremely important topic. I'm glad we all agree that we must, this year, mark the year of Nikola Šubic Zrinski. But as a basis, I'm going to take a few statements here that are like this, intrigued me. One, I think, said Mrs. Zgrebec that Zrinski marked Chakovec and Međimurje, their family Chakovec and Međimurje. I agree with that very much. However, I would just like to add that it has marked all of Croatia, that it has marked many generations, that it has finally marked me and my worldview in one part of course which, which is why I had problems but also the pride and satisfaction that I have accepted some of the values that it symbolizes. Secondly, I am very glad that my colleague I think Simic from MOST mentioned the values he represents. It's really a great story to talk about. Thank you for that, too. And thirdly, your proposal to make it good that every summer, each summer, opera Nikola Shubić Zrinski is performed. I'm telling you, we've already promoted that initiative in Trogir. Whether it will be realized I don't know but we have a beautiful tower that served to defend against Turks where opera Nikola Šubić Zrinski would be performed in one perfect space every summer. So, only I agree with the fact that in a certain way it is an excellent subject that can be well and commercialized. And I agree with that, but these values that we're talking about today go beyond that fact, but it's good to use because that's what all the countries of the world do, so why shouldn't we? We're not going to reduce this value that way, we can just promote the meaning of all of it. So if Nikola Šubić is a Zrinski example of courage, and he is, if Nikola Šubić is a Zrinski example of patriotism, and he is, if he is an example of sacrifice, and he is, then all of these are one of the universal values of permanent presence, and then I wonder why they are lost, why are they lost? We need to know the fact that only "Nikola Šubic Zrinski" was forbidden, which is a disaster. But we have another more tragic fact, as far as I know in any programme for this year of national theatre houses in Croatia, it is not envisaged to perform the opera "Nikola Šubić Zrinski", it is not envisaged. Is that just a break-in? I want to believe that it is. So only the declarative marking of the year, next year I think that Nikola Šubić Zrinski should be our inspiration both in 2017 and 2080. So that's the point. And I won't owe you much, but I'll just mention one more fact, it's not about Nikola Šubic Zrinski, but it has something to do with our relationship with events. Tomorrow I as a Christian, don't look on the religious side, but here I know tomorrow is St. Joseph, who is the protector of the Croatian and Croatian Parliament. Well, we could've thought of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6817	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. The first one is the esteemed Edge of Muscle, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6818	Dear President, dear colleague Dodig and I agree with all of you all what you said and colleagues who have said this so far. I thank those who have arranged for this year to be declared the year of Zrinski. I am not surprised that in our history all the people responsible for the Croatian state are not worth it, that they are not so important that we put them somewhere in place or try to forget as soon as possible. All Croatian values have been neglected, but I would say that in the last 100 years. It is not a question one day, for the last 100 years whoever ruled the Croatian state and what kind of Croatian state, in which conditions the Croats lived, of course, could not even be valued. I'm particularly surprised today, and we can see it all together, after this war of our Homeland that we've given the victims, how much we value them, how much we want to show it in truth, not by any lies, but by all truth, how much energy and time we need to put in our textbooks alone. And let's not say that we gave our last president who created this country with our defenders a park that is not suitable for his name, instead of giving him the best square in Zagreb and Croatia without removing Tito's square that has been declared among the 10 criminals in the world. And our Homeland War has been degraded. And we can't do it here in Zagreb. So I hope this House should pay particular attention to this time, and certainly to all of our other great people who have earned more recognition in this country than they have ever been before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6819	Thank you very much. The next replica is the distinguished representatives of Štefanija Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6820	Thank you, Mr. President. I fully agree with your thinking and your presentation, and I agree that Zrinski has marked Croatia as a whole. He is not only important for Chakovec and Međimurje but I am glad that this area of mine is investing a lot in the memory of Nikola Šubic Zrinski and his family. You noted that this should be commercialized and the Međimurje County has just prepared a project documentation for the reconstruction of Zrinski Palace worth 50 million kuna. The Ministry of Regional Development is awaiting a decision. The County gives 5 million kuna annually for the operation and maintenance of the Old Town of Zrinski in Čakovec. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6821	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6822	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, in this agreement, in the debate, the replicas would actually be unnecessary, but I would like to say something to this presentation of my colleagues, Dodig. In fact, I said that the Zrinski family marked history in one long period, both Chakovec and Međimurje. They were warriors, they were statesmen, they marked the culture of our region. Zrinski had in their castle a huge library written by travellers and sometimes exaggerated what Chakovec or Old Town Zrinski, the town of Zrinski and the suburbs of Čakovec were like, where they were craftsmen. The first printing press in Sunday, thanks to Juraj Zrinski. But I actually called to tell you that after the deaths of Zrinski and Frankopan, their properties, and especially the property in Čakovec, were robbed, and we see from Ptuj to Vienna the property of Zrinski. We recently passed the Law on the Return of Cultural Heritage, which is part of the gain of European legislation, so it might be good to launch the initiative in this year to return to the Zrinski property that has been robbed, which has been scattered, I say from Ptuj to Vienna, and to be at the Zrinski family memorial museum.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6823	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Goran Dodig will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6824	Thank you very much. ... in a certain way, I gave you a chance to say that too. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I agree with that. I will only finish this today's individual exposure to the famous Latin proverb of the history master Vitae – so we learn from history. And maybe once again, whoever cuts the roots can't expect fruit. Let's not cut our roots. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6825	Thank you very much. I'm closing this debate. And I'm sorry, I didn't see. Dear Representative Sanja Putica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6826	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. An esteemed colleague, Dr. Dodig all today, of course, is in favour of raising the dignity of Croatian culture and history. However, referring to the great people from the history of European countries, it should be said that we Croats generally pay too little attention to the great people of Croatian history, and everything we talk about today is very much related to changes in the plans and programmes of individual subjects in our schools, especially Croatian languages and literature and history and what is offered in the new curricular reform. In this sense, it is a great responsibility for us representatives in the Croatian Parliament and the Parliamentary Committee on Education, Culture and Science to preserve Croatian history and culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-18-0.u6827	Okay, thank you very much. So here's what we'd like to conclude with this point. So we will vote when the conditions are met on Monday. We'd be done with today's work, we'd be working again Monday at 11.00. And it's going to be a vote. First, we will vote on the confidence of the new defence minister, and then we will vote on the amendments, i.e. the budget and the Law on the implementation of the budget and other laws. So I'm asking you to be here Monday at 11:00. Thank you very much. Have a nice weekend. Session interrupted at 11.42 p.m. The next item is the 2016 Proposal for a Decision to be declared by Nikola Šubić Zrinski. The Proposer of the Decision is the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision to be declared in 2016 by Nikola Šubić Zrinski. Please vote. The vote is over. Here, as you can see, there are unanimous votes. So, unanimously with 130 votes, a decision on the 2016 declaration was taken in Nikola Subić Zrinski.
