ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-15-0.u18055	President of the Croatian Parliament, I request a 10 minute break on behalf of the club to warn of a negative trend and projections of the development of Croatian health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-15-0.u18056	It's just how I noticed who. Representative Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-15-0.u18057	Thank you, Mr. President, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, I request a 10-minute recess regarding the situation in the INA, mainly in the Sisak refinery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-15-0.u18058	Representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-15-0.u18059	Mr. President of the Parliament, I request a break on behalf of the Representatives' Club "Let's Change Croatia" to warn the public about the violation of the Law on Education and Education regarding the length of the term of office of directors and quality of education.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-15-0.u18060	A representative? No, I don't. Any other demands? Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-15-0.u18061	On behalf of the Most INA theme club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-15-0.u18062	The theme?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-15-0.u18063	INA.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-15-0.u18064	INA. If there are no other requests, I'll grant a 10-minute break. It's 9:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:15 AM]] For a break, the first one was signed up for "The Living Wall's Advocacy Club." On their behalf, representative Ivan Willibor Sincic. I'd like to ask an agent to give an explanation for the break.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-15-0.u18066	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. I've asked for this break to warn and here it is related to today's day, the vote of the budget to which we'll be in charge of 35 billion kuna. What projections of Croatian health and while I was preparing my colleague Goran Aleksic warned me to say, he has Kron’s disease and says the drug immutable that it cannot be bought, that it is not available in the pharmacy in Zagreb, and should not be stopped drinking because if you stop drinking you must start over, it is mostly very complicated for patients to live. So the question is, why isn't this medicine here? Probably because of a lack of finance. As regards the projections of Croatian health care, here today on page 32 of one newspaper, says: Health before collapse, will they collect insurance and participation? That's today. And now I will look back at a country that is several years ahead of us, it is Greece and I will pass on the experiences of the Greeks to warn Croatian citizens if we continue the borrowing policy waiting for Croatian health care. In fact, health budgets decreased by 60 per cent in Greece during the crisis. Here's a couple of testimonies. One Greek woman, she said that the family is mostly supported, otherwise the article from the Nationals is very shaken, and I want to share it with you, some of its parts that I think are important, said the family is mostly supported by a pension that has been reduced by government austerity measures from 1300 to 900 euros. They spent several hundred euros on drugs every month. Currently, he owes 200 euros at the pharmacy. She borrows medication from her mother, has to calculate the dose and adjust it to herself. Sometimes he uses a knife, ladies and gentlemen, to cut the tablet in half, and sometimes he doesn't take it at all. Mother and child pills share for cholesterol, mother takes 10, father 20, etc. etc. The Greeks began to borrow drugs, share medicines, take the wrong treatments, make self-diagnosions, self-medications that are thus advertised to be good, help and actually are spins. Self-medication is in expansion because the health budget has been reduced, people are trying to avoid going to a doctor. Here are a few more testimonies for these thesis. In a clinic of solidarity, patients often try to prescribe their own medications they think they need. For people without insurance, it's already become normal. Improvise and reduce doses or do not take treatment at all. And each medicine is dangerous if it is not taken in accordance with the instructions of a doctor, as many doctors know in our Parliament. The public health care system in Greece began to fall apart in 2009 as the then Greek government experienced a huge deficit in the budget as we know the Greek scenario. The wave of devastating cuts that pushed Greece into the spiral of depression prompted a rise in unemployment and caused further cuts in the health system budget. And the number of people deprived of health insurance due to unemployment has risen sharply. My colleagues and colleagues, as many as 3 million out of 11 million people in Greece today do not have health insurance and access to treatment. These are really earthquake numbers. According to a survey by the Dioneosis group, 67% of respondents said drugs are very difficult to buy. Furthermore, when a health system falls apart, it jumps in any alternative, very, very often very bad, which are preparations that claim to do wonders. Some, many have never been tested. Here's a couple of portals that sell drugs like that. One registered a 31% increase even in 5 years, and the market share increased from 5 to 12. The second, which sells food supplements, had a 469 per cent growth in one year. I say advertising properties that do not exist, the ministry threatens penalties and what is crucial to the end, Greece has an extra-patient consumption of antibiotics of 30, so 4.1 doses a day per 1,000 inhabitants. Croatia has 21.4, therefore, uncontrollable use of antibiotics. We have here and at the end of the article a quote from an extraordinary professor who deals with infectious diseases at the University of Athens. He said that 40 to 60 percent of drugstores sell antibiotics without a prescription on black under the table because people can't afford it. The Secretary of State for Health, Bazokosis, therefore, in the Greek ministry, said it would be best to ban harmful advertising, but a troika made by the European Commission of the IMF, does everything and is obsessed with the commercialisation of health. My colleagues and colleagues, we finally have an article that the Greeks are masseous. Let me finish the thesis. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Thank you, Mr. President, they're injecting a HIV virus to get some money because it's better to live with HIV than without money. If we keep borrowing, this scenario is waiting for us. We're already on that path, and that's why I'm calling for a conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-15-0.u18067	I'm sorry, before I go, I'd only ask parliamentary representatives to pay attention to the clock and to stick to relatively strict time limits. The SDP representative club has requested a break. On their behalf, representative Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-15-0.u18068	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues from the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. Namely, the subject is INA. The growing topic in our public space, so INA has been facing serious problems for a long time. These problems occurred naturally after the partner became MOL. All the moves that went beyond the MOL contract actually created significant problems for the INA. INA's going the wrong way. That's what some of the key indicators I tried to get out here in a hurry show. So just in the last four years, INA sales revenue has fallen from about 30 billion kuna to about 19 billion kuna. Of course there is an impact of prices but not only price. That's what the EBITDA shows, so EBITDA fell from 4.6 billion to only 2.6 billion. The number of employees in four years has collapsed from 14 grand to about 11 grand. Then there's the net profit that was 4 years ago 680 million kuna and then 3 years in a row is the net loss of cca. A billion and a half kuna. So there's growing problems for the INA. What is particularly important to us today, the refinishing production of 5 million tonnes on average has now dropped to only 3.5 million tonnes for years. So negative indicators suggest that something has to be done. What is currently current is at least two key issues. One is the European Commission's infrared regarding the INA Privatisation Act. This law contains provisions under which the State retains certain specific rights to be examined in the exclusive right of control of changes in ownership as well as in the exclusive veto law of certain decisions of the company’s administration and also provides it with the right of the first total or part of the company’s assets in the event that certain problems arise in business. What is our position here is that everything that happened with the INA in the meantime, with the relationship between the state of Croatia and MOL, as well as the biggest shareholders of INA, including two initiated arbitration efforts to resolve issues. So our view is that processes with a negative sign seriously question the general interests of the Croatian state and the general interests of the Croatian State or in general state are listed as one of the key arguments in the event of the argument of the bull against such infringement. So we, i.e. the Croatian Government must prove that there is a general interest of the Croatian state to protect INA from all the negative processes that occurred during this previous period and this will be a strong argument to reject this request from the European Commission. Of course, in our case, it would allow the decision-making process to continue under what kind of, what kind of influence of the state. That should be taken care of anyway. The other big thing is a clue, so it's about the possible sale of shares owned by INA d.d. by the current majority co-owner, to put it this way, MOL, given the current relations, the negative trends in the development of INA and the exceptional strategic significance of INA, not only for our energy sector but for the overall Croatian economy, the question is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will be submitted in this case if the MOL actually takes action to sell the stakes in INA. It is our view that the Government of the Republic of Croatia needs to make a serious analysis and offer possible solutions to the purchase of MOL's stake in INA, assuming that such an undertaking is found and proved to be economically sustainable. So not unconditionally, but if the economic sustainability of such an undertaking is demonstrated. I also welcome the view of the Deputy Prime Minister on this occasion the other day in a TV show where she did not reject the possibility that the Croatian government would engage in this exactly the way we support it. So let's do everything in which case Croatia can regain control of INA. It's our strategic interest, it's of particular national and national importance, and I think we have to do everything we can to make that happen eventually. And finally just one word or sentence, yesterday we were at the Sisak Refinery, I think we should do the same to the government to prevent any decision by the Management Board or the Supervisory Board [[The Incursion President: Thank you to Representative Branko Grcic.]] that would go against the company's interest. [[Adversity President: Representative Grcic.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-15-0.u18069	I just asked you to stick to the weather. On behalf of the Club of Representatives Let's change Croatia's SNAGA, representative Ivan Lovrinović. [[Intruder: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-15-0.u18070	Dear Mr. President, honourable ministers and ministers, MPs and MPs. Allow me to present in these few minutes only, warn the public, you and the public of a systematic violation of the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools regarding the length of the term of office of directors in those institutions. In recent days, a public debate on the Law on Education and Education related to primary and secondary schools has been concluded, and now is the right opportunity to warn about this problem. The Law on Education and Education in Articles 125 to 131 regulates the management of school institutions in the way of selection, conditions, obligations and mandate of school directors. It is clear from Article 128 that a person appointed as director shall enter into a working contract for a period of 5 years. I quote in paragraph 2 of the same article if the person appointed as director has an indefinite employment contract for teachers, teachers, or an expert associate in the school institution, at his request, the employment contract will remain at rest until the end of the term of office for a maximum period of two consecutive term. So from this provision of the law it is quite clear that directors in primary and secondary schools can be the longest consecutive 2 mandates, I repeat 2 mandates. However, what is happening in Croatia? In most cases, principals in primary and secondary schools remain directors until retirement. Therefore, we see that here, that this is a very widespread practice, it is deeply rooted in practice in the educational system in Croatia. Why is this harmful in terms of education and education? It is harmful for several reasons, the first to open up space to potential nepotism, the second to potential corruption, the third to make it impossible for other teachers and teachers to also get the expression that they are directors to show their ability. So we see here multiple negative consequences and what's worst here doesn't need to be passed a new law, here we simply have to practice and make it impossible for these phenomena to occur. Therefore, it is not surprising, among other things, that our students in this test to the European PISA have not shown satisfactory results and I think in front of the Representatives' Club, let's change Croatia that this is one bad practice that we have to solve. From this point on, I would like to urge the Minister, i.e. the Ministry of Science and Education, to carry out a review of the principal's mandate to primary and secondary schools and that such a very widespread and negative practice in Croatia is definitely brought to light by law and that the law is respected. I'm a little short.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-15-0.u18071	I would like to thank Agent Lovrinovic. On behalf of the club MOST Independent Lists MP Tomislav Panenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-15-0.u18072	Thank you. Dear President of the Parliament, the esteemed members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and colleagues of the INA theme are probably unsanitary and especially when we look at the daily press to promote their financial results, boast that they are doing positive business and thus creating a negative climate here, create a climate that they are best able to manage, that the Croatian state as one of the co-owners in the management of the INA does not know and actually return to what it is, it is a parallel system of governance in the INA, the LODO system that has been transferred from the Hungarian MOL. The executive directors, where the change has taken place, still manage the INA, still the people of Jozo Petrovic not only manage lower levels but also mobilize people and select people, and eventually someone in the Croatian press dares to pay for ads that celebrate the successes of MOL. I think it is a situation that is unacceptable and that at least one part of the culture must also be the responsibility of the MOL to accept that the management of the INA is critical of them, that their investments were not carried out at the time they were meant to. That since 2003, everything they've promised has not been done. And today they would not talk about production in Sisak, or production in Rijeka, nor about restoration only if the contract signed in 2003 had been executed. And what do you say when negotiations are to be continued with that partner? Should we even think about selling, about actually selling MOL's share to someone else? Are we ladies and gentlemen going to aliminate MOL for everything they haven't done? Are we going to let just falsify the sale of their share to someone else and, by making our decision to amend the INA Privatisation Act, make assumptions about it? Therefore, the ultimatum which came towards the Croatian Government from the European Commission if someone had looked at it did not sign it by some clerk, was signed by a clerk who came from Hungary, who clearly represented the Hungarian interests there and I would also like to receive a reply from the government, so I would say from those who represent the Croatian interest that Hungarian MOL when entering the privatisation of INA he clearly knew the conditions. That law isn't from yesterday, it's from before, it's only about one company. Therefore, one law on a company where the biggest shareholders entered it knowingly, it certainly does not violate market relations, it does not violate ownership relations by which its change can only be such that it will not distort neither arbitration nor relations between shareholders, which is how communication from the European Commission actually communicates with the Hungarian MOL and it wants to make a shortcut for all that they have promised not to. So this isn't the first try, how many attempts were actually maneuvers to show up some new investor who would be better and actually always came down to MOL and how to get out of the obligations they created. And then when we get back, who's gonna solve the problem when the MOL's out? At that time, neither strategic investment was solved nor the refineries solved, neither did our oil fields, to get rid of the white nights, which was quality solved, it went away. What about Syria, what about the location in Syria? Why is MOL out there still lobbying, trying to get to it, why are they trying to kidnap us from a company where we're all co-owners? And that's all on the agenda if you haven't forgotten he put the MOST on. It's a topic that we've raised to the point where it's being debated that everyone's aware that when you stop there, it's also constantly asking the ministers how long it's going to be like this, we're getting worse? So the INA is still being disintegrated and we're still being asked to aliminate the INA Privatisation Act, its changes. Therefore, it is our responsibility to raise awareness and say neither Milanovic's Government nor the supervisory board headed by Siniš Petrovic have resolved the LODO system, only when we put Damir Vandjelic and our new members are now starting to change. Therefore, we stand at the point of view, it is the top topic of Croatian politics. Thank you very much.
