ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u6910	Thank you, Your Honor. On behalf of the SDP Club, I am looking for a 10 minute break so that the Club can present its thoughts on the announcement of changes in the peace system that will significantly affect future pensioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u6911	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Silvano Hrelja, I assume on the same subject. Okay,
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u6912	You're hitting your mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u6913	Dear Representative Goran Beus Richembergh on the same subject. Dear representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u6914	Thank you, Mr. President. The Labour Club is looking for a break on the same subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u6915	Same subject, someone else? Dear Representative Ivan Shuker on behalf of the HDZ Club. I think that would be all, thank you very much. I'll see you in 09.50 minutes. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] I ask you to take your seats and move in line as the clubs reported, so I will ask the distinguished representative, Miranda Mrsic, who will take his word on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u6917	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. We have yet another blow from the Government of the Patriot coalition MOST and the independent list of Milan Bandic on workers and employees in Croatia. After the invasion of the media, the repressive social compensation system, the health system, after the attack on workers' rights, are now attacking the pension system. The peace system is the basis of the social state and social security of citizens. According to what is in the media today, and according to what is likely to be written in the national reform programme, citizens of the Republic of Croatia, employees, young people entering the labour market are poor citizens of the Republic of Croatia. In the past, we have passed the Pension Insurance Act, which is balanced, which is in line with the age report, what we promised the EU to see if our pension system is in line with our demographics, with our age average and it has proved to be, that the pension system is stable and there is no need to make such changes. These changes go only to the hands of capital and employers and it is shown that this is the Government not of the Republic of Croatia, not of the workers of the Republic of Croatia, but of the Government of Capital. Because it's obvious that you're going with a cut-off for the welfare state to stay more in your capital pockets. We therefore believe that this House must stand up against it too, because what will happen to our workers who are out of work and cannot go to early retirement must wait 62 years. You know yourself that the chance to get a job after 50 years of life is less than 10%. And one of the exits was early retirement. Our workers are not going to early retirement because they want to, but because they're losing their jobs. And what you gentlemen will do with these changes, that you will place these citizens of the Republic of Croatia in second order, throw them into poverty. And that's what's not allowed. We are a social state, a state that is fundamentally the social security of citizens. On the other hand, another group that is extremely... on the labour market, and they're women. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] By changing this government, women are even more penalized than they should be. As you know, the harmony between the age of retirement and male compliance is under way. However, the government predicts that we should speed it up even more, end in 2025 and immediately start that acceleration for both men and women to retire at 67 and end in 2030. Gentlemen, this has nothing to do with the pension system, nothing to do with the sustainability of the pension system. Our system is sustainable, it is stable, it needs to be further built especially on the second and third pillars. But what you are doing now is a direct blow to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. There's no information to support what the government is doing right now. In the ageing report, I ask that the Government read it and the European Commission adopted it. It says very clearly that the harmonisation of pensions together with retirement age leads to the stability of the system and that in the future, the pension system will not take as many gross domestic products as it is today, it will fall below 5%. And that's what's been drawn up in previous reforms. And why is this government doing this? Probably because it's not the government. It is a pseudo-government by me, because instead of fighting for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, it shows the European Commission where the problems are, that the European Commission is therefore subsidising us with the information on which it wants to speed up retirement, which is why it wants to pension citizens of the Republic of Croatia more and therefore extend the age to leave early retirement. There's no record of that. It is clear that this government is a government that does not rule, a pseudo-government of capital rather than citizens and workers in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u6918	Thank you. Next, on behalf of the club HSU and Stipe Petrine, the distinguished representative of Silvano Hrelja will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u6919	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I won't waste my time repeating what my colleague said, because it's all about cutting these deadlines. I will remind you that in accession negotiations for the EU, the administration of Jadranka Kosor has defended our views. In the EU's very accession, final negotiations by the government, or the administration of Zoran Milanovic, defended the pension system as agreed. A normal deadline has been agreed for the equalisation of the training or age to retire men and women to 2030. I recall Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor's first proposal was 2020. Just so you know, there was a struggle in Parliament and Parliament passed that law after the debate and after the fact was seen. What I will pay particular attention to is the additional punishment of those who have the most internships in Croatia. You need to know that early retirement users have entered more than 36 years of internships. Neither disabled nor clean age pensions bring so many internships into the system. Nevertheless, they have the minimum amount per year of retirement training. Why? Because they have a penalization. So far, it's been a pension to punish a man for one eighth of his internship for a maximum of one-fifth of his pension for life. And now what is now proposed for one eleventh of an internship will take one-fifth of a pension, 20% of a pension for the rest of your life. I'm not dramatic, it's facts! If that's what you want, if it's reforms, the MOST colleagues, if it's reforms, I think it's something else. That the reforms were to give family pensions to those who together have 80 years of training and not only the right to receive 70% more favourably of the example of all European countries. Let's talk here before we make these moves why we have 380 thousand pensioners receiving more pensions than they've made through contributions. There are reasons. We have to discuss this. Some had no choice under special law. Some of them had a choice. Some employers did it. But those are the facts. You can't do it for one thing. War is one of the facts why we have so many lawyers and so many people with disabilities. In the light of these arguments, this pension system should be defended. Let us not now force and announce something that will be and make a stampede that will burden this year's budget because this is balanced and burdens the budgets of the coming years slowly. Things will stabilize, there won't be an increase in pensioners every year. Demography does its part. But let's have patience, these are long-term systems. If for six years something was peaceful with bringing in a new system of 60-41 for so-called. A full pension for a long-term internship then that's one plus. Let's do reforms to find some plus, some new justice in this system, not even more punish those who have worked most and earned their pension. We punish them. If that makes sense, then I don't see where the reforms are. I suppose that specifically this large number of votes for MOST was that people were expecting some improvements, the functioning of the system, the improvement of rights. This is just extra hitting and extra punishment. But who? Those who have worked most and contributed to this pension system. I'll do it a million times because it's a unfair situation. And as my predecessor said, we don't get people going to early retirement because they want to, rarely who of them has any extra interest in being able to and is so hard at work that they can make more money than their companies fail. But our employers are completely the opposite than the German employers who have the rule that the first one who came is the first one to go, the reverse rule is the first one that comes first. So we're firing with the great ease of the oldest workers, of course because of the profits. Because then the continuity of a company's memory collapses. Then it's easier to manage. And, you know, profits in Croatia are just unpaid work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u6920	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS club of liberal Democrats, the next word will be taken by the distinguished representative Goran Beus Richembergh, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u6921	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS club of liberal Democrats joins in expressing concern over the announcement of this additional so-called ". reforms or procedures in the current pension system. As far as we are concerned, firstly we want to highlight a logical need not to touch what is stable and what is sustainable but to improve the environment in which the stability and sustainability of the pension system is ensured in the long term. This is certainly not going to happen by penalizing, especially by not announcing. In the short term, this can indeed, as counterpart Hrelja said, cause the stampede and temporarily may open a number of jobs for those on the labour market but in the long term it is an extremely bad message to all young people in Croatia. Therefore, if the conditions for retirement are changed by introducing new deadlines, if it extends in this sense the mandatory working time, if those who are fully unemployed are additionally burdened, then the message to young people is not only that they will continue to find work in Croatia but also that going abroad is not only an option but the only perspective. Have you noticed that the past three or four months are no longer talking about how young people go abroad? And that trend increased almost twice compared to last year's situation when the opposition at the time and today's ruling joint venture of the Patriot coalition and the MOST said it was one of the biggest if not the biggest problem this government will try to solve as soon as possible. And now we're sending a completely different message. You will not be able to achieve your right to work in Croatia because we will force the oldest workers to continue working until 67 years of life. Instead of accessing this whole story in a different way, from the other end completely, and that is to do everything possible to create new jobs, create a wider base, expand the base for creating new values, thus increasing the number of payment obligations in the pension system and making it more sustainable in the long term. If we haven't talked about opening new jobs in three months, it's a bad message. This just means that either a pre-election promise has been forgotten or that the things that occur within the ruling cooperative are further sharpened to the point that they are no longer dealing with anything but themselves. And that's not good, that's not good for the nation or the state. I call on all resolutions, not just a work-and-resor, to start taking such measures and to implement such reforms that will open perspectives, facilitate the creation of new jobs and create new jobs. And that the already valid system, which is also in the phases of negotiations with the EU and also later by adopting long-term policies, is stabilised so that it does not touch and collapse, and that there is no additional tension towards people who are at the late age of their working life, that no ugly message is sent to those who, because of their difficult employment, have to extend their status as unemployed to 62 years and that in this way psychologically, black negative pressure is being placed on their own future. We ask the Government to take a proactive stand in this regard and to start dealing with things that will create new values and new jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u6922	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, the distinguished representative, Nancy Tyrelli, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u6923	I would like to thank the president, dear colleagues and colleagues. When we started hearing about reforms almost six months ago, then we kind of took it lightly, but we never tried to define what reform actually is and what these reforms are announcing. In these five months after the parliamentary elections with everything that's been happening to us, we've only been convinced of one thing. We're talking about reform when we abolish social rights, and then it's reform because we started doing something in the social community. Well, then we're talking about reforms in health care because we've also mentioned health care, so we've increased or we want to increase the supplemental health insurance policy, and then we're going to figure out what the above-standards are. So then we talk about reforms when we mention entrepreneurship, so we talk about reforms at the time when we mention the pension system. And it all comes down to the fact that we are talking about reforms only to mention reforms without anyone ever having to bear any responsibility from the basis that all these reforms go exclusively to the burden of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So all of these reforms of yours that I've just mentioned have been abolished by some existing rights, have abolished what the citizens have so far had, and now we're hearing about new reforms in the pension system again. When you say that young people leave Croatia, then those young ones leave for some reason. When we negotiated after the parliamentary elections on the formation of the government, then one of the the thesis of the bridge was constantly repeating that it was important to level the legislation, that it is important not from today to tomorrow to change the rules that we have established in order to have certain security. Now, after 3 or 4 months, we come to a situation where we change everything from the roots, that we do not follow at all what we said was not good and that we will fix it and most tragic and most regrettable all that is done is at the expense of the workers, to the harm of the citizens and in favour of large capital or interest groups from health to the pension system. If something has shown us that we have good projections, that these projections are going to be quality and good at some time, that it's going to have some weight in maintaining a certain system why every 4 years we need to reset ourselves and train ourselves who's smarter or who's less successful or who's going to be more successful? When I say "successful," it means in four years we're not going to have any of the same inventory again, and again we're going to fix the mistakes we're doing right now in this term. I think we all need to start bearing responsibility together for what we're doing in a way that we're responsible for every benefit but also for every benefits we've been granted to our citizens. Let's stop making up hot water, stick to what's good, upgrade it, upgrade it better than what is, but let's not crash what's little. And when we talk about reform, we throw the reforms out of the sleeves, we stand in front of the cameras and hear about the reforms. There is no projection for these reforms. When you start serious reforms, then I hope that you will also have serious projections in which every citizen, each parliamentary representative, will be able to read how much this reform will contribute to the budget and to any Croatian citizen for the next 4 years, for the next 10 years or for the next 20 years. As long as you're going through reforms and they don't have projections, reforms are nothing more than eye blurredness.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u6924	Thank you very much. And lastly, it will be the HDZ club, the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u6925	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, it's very interesting to listen to colleagues who had responsibility for Croatia until yesterday in this way practically no one from the government said anything but let's chase. But what is true is that the biggest problem of the pension system is a million 370 or 75 thousand as many as there are employees and a million 250 thousand pensioners, and when you take that million and 370 thousand employees, over 300 thousand of them are tied to a state or unit of local self-government, then you get the defeating result that somewhere at least 0.85 employees come to a pensioner. And that's the real problem with the pension system. But look, when someone takes six billion incomes from future pension systems to reduce public debt because the pressure was what it was, it was a phenomenal reform move. When someone reduces their contribution by 2% in health care, then it's not raising large capital as is said today. So, it's always harder to turn, but the way it suits me, and that's what's not good. Why? Because the pension system is very complex, it is by law large numbers and each digit is enormously growing after a few years and cannot be played with and in this way politically debate about perhaps the Crucial Law in the Republic of Croatia is not good. This reminds me of that famous run, signing a referendum on the Labour Law. You know how much it cost us not to amend the Labour Act? At this point, more than 15 billion kuna. We are today discussing the same problems, primarily the employees of the state, local self-government and public enterprises and companies owned by local self-government units as they were in 2010 only because of a single sentence, a sentence of change in the Labour Act where no one suggested that something be taken away but because of the newly created situation to start new collective negotiations in view of the current situation. And so are these union negotiations. No one's going to say that in that agreement signed with the unions was the same way to say one catch or brake that if the gross domestic product goes down, that there are conditions to make the same kind of relationship... that was six times in four years but I say it's best to talk like this, to politicize and prevent anything from being talked about, not to be brought. So the Pension Insurance Act will certainly not be passed outside of this space here and beyond the possibility that we can all talk about it. But I repeat, colleagues and colleagues, future pensioners have lost six billion safe incomes. This is what was in the second pillar of the pension system for those who go into retirement under special regulations, who have a pension that is so large and so large and at the time they retire, all that they have saved from the second pillar is transferred to the first pillar of the pension system. Someone took it from future pensioners, someone took 5 billion kuna from future governments, but then it was supposed to be some kind of reform procedure. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues are certain that this government, the patriotic coalition and MOST will not go to the expense of those, at the end of the day all have repeated several times that the pensioners and at this point over 850 000 have a pension under 3000 kn but that was not talked about. And in the end, I'll be done. The biggest problem with the pension system is that of employees who are receiving pensions. So if we had a million and 700 employees, we'd probably talk about the pension system differently. We also need to know that in the deficit of the state budget, about 20 billion kuna is collected annually from the pension contribution and the pension cost is 37 billion kuna and colleagues who talk about going to the arm of large capital, you have contributions that are from and on the salary, from the salary is what is an integral part of the gross salary, which every employer has to contract with his employee and you have a contribution to the salary which is this, that's this health care. So don't talk about going to school because the team doesn't cut anything if you have a gross salary contract but apparently someone placed a handsome thesis and we'll see who was a servant and a banker and a large capital. It'll be very soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u6926	Thank you very much. Here's what we used up the statements at the beginning of the session, so we'll start on the agenda. Here's what we've exhausted statements at the beginning of the session, so we'll start on the agenda, so the first point is as you know according to the agenda today - the report on the implementation of the Law on Access to Information for 2015 So for the past year. The applicant shall be the Commissioner for Information under Article 60 of the Law on the right to access information and Article 214. The Rules of Procedure of the Parliament. You've received material from the Parliament's equipment. The debate was conducted by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System and by the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities. You received their reports at the session. The government also delivered an opinion. Does the applicant want to further explain the report? Yeah. Here you are, Your Honor, the Commissioner for Information, Mrs Anamaria Musa, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8207	Thank you. I welcome the honourable MPs and MPs and I submit a report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2015. The report's pretty extensive. It has been published on Parliament's pages and they have already had the opportunity to read it, so here I will briefly present the most important findings from the report showing how the Law on Access to Information was implemented to ensure that the Constitution of guaranteed citizens' right to information, which is a presumption of transparency and openness of public administration and public sector and public authorities, of course, rule of law, efficiency of public administration and very important control of corruption. The same law also regulates the re-use of information and open data from the public sector, which are obligations under the EU Public Sector Information Directive. It was precisely because of the adoption of the Directive last year that the Law on the right to access information was amended and it entered into force in August 2015. As far as the law is concerned, I will point out here that the current obligation to implement this law has 5940 public authorities which are obliged to provide citizens with timely, complete and accurate information on their work, the decision-making method, the decisions they make, in such a way as to make such information public on the body's website, and also to provide information as required by the citizens when they are subject to the provisions of this Act and the laws governing certain restrictions on personal data and classified data. The authorities of these 5940 are also obliged to enable the re-use of information and to publish open public sector data which should enable the development of the economy in particular medium and small enterprises in the IT sector and also the development of social products, in particular by civil society associations, academic community and media. The public authorities are also obliged to give public insight into the work of their collegiate bodies and also very important to carry out consultations with the public whenever they adopt regulations, general acts and planning documents in order to achieve participation, i.e. the participation of citizens and the openness of public authorities towards the public. The conduct of these bodies, therefore, is subject to control by the Commissioner for Information designated by law as a body that protects, monitors and promotes the exercise of the right to readjustment, access to information and reuse of information. This relates first and foremost to the decision on complaints, the exercise of controls, in particular inspection controls, the resolution of performances, the promotion of law, the monitoring of the implementation of certain provisions of the law, etc. Therefore, this report concerns the second year of work of the Commissioners and is based primarily on data from the work of the Commissioner himself, but also on data from the report which the bodies are obliged to submit to the Commissioner by 31 January. This year, 76.41% of the body, i.e. the body or 4539 which is 500 bodies over the last year. However, there is still a lack of reports from all bodies that are obliged to implement the law, which is of course quite alarming and which indicates that one part of the public authority is particularly local, especially at local level, so institutions and companies of local units are neither familiar with the obligation nor is trying to implement it. I note that this year's reports have been submitted through the report application and that the full list of public authorities has been published for the first time in Croatia as far as I know it and which is, therefore, updated on a daily basis and therefore every day you can get to know all bodies that are actually public sector bodies in Croatia. The 5,000, 4539 bodies reportedly received 19,000 requests from citizens, down from earlier years. Therefore, it shows that public authorities in a slightly smaller number receive requests for access to information which can be attributed to a part of an enhanced publication of information on the Internet. However, our basic assessment of the public authorities' behaviour and implementation of the law is that although the situation in terms of transparency and openness is actually somewhat better and gradually improves every year as the law is strengthened, that there are nevertheless significant problems and that the overall level of transparency and openness below levels is satisfactory given the consequences that arises in the public sector itself. In particular, significant deviations have been observed at the level of local and regional (regional) self-government, parts of legal entities with public authority, individual bodies that have the character of associations such as sports associations or tourist communities. However, there are examples of good practice in law enforcement. Namely, at all levels and in all groups of bodies, there have been primarily irregularities in dealing with citizens' demands, in particular in respect of respecting the deadlines for deciding on citizens' demands, and this finding, except in everyday practice, is based on the fact that every 10 legal solutions of the public authority are subject to 17 illegal solutions, which is a deterioration compared to the last year when this relationship was 10:12. In particular, it is alarming to ignore the demands of citizens by the public authority, so-called public authorities. the silence of the administration, given that 2/3 of all complaints are regularly applied every year to so-called. The silence of the administration. It may be because the deadlines are relatively short, but we primarily believe that the reason is that public authorities do not pay enough attention to how to exercise citizens' rights, so in general the transparency of their work. The biggest reasons for non-compliance with the law are in a simple low awareness of the bodies themselves and their ability to implement the law, and it is also a relatively significant factor in ignorance by citizens of their rights and in fact the fact that very often even when they are rejected by the public authorities do not use the legal path provided by the law and do not appeal to the Commissioner. This practice, unfortunately, has been observed very often by media who are providing information to the public, i.e. that they could not get information without using the way, the legal path, the information given to the public and informing the public in an appropriate way despite the fact that the Commissioner for Information regularly conducts press education with the Croatian Journalist Society. In 2015 624 complaints were received, hence 64% for the silence of the administration, with 58% for the 80 resolution rate almost 85%. In view of the total resolution of 900 complaints, the complaints therefore constitute complaints from previous years which have not been resolved in the resolution of 2015. Given the figures we present in detail in this report, it is visible to decrease, so the trend of the increase in complaints is stopped which, as I said, can be interpreted in two ways. On the one hand, there is a greater number of information on the Internet, partly because the Commissioner for Information is working intensively to publish information in accordance with Article 10 on the public authorities' websites and to educate public authorities to address requests, and therefore very often there is no need for complaints from citizens. However, the fact remains that many citizens do not know about this right, are not familiar with this right or know how to achieve it. And one of the indicators is the fact that 50% of all complaints were filed by only 10 people. So half of these 624 complaints are complaints of 10 of the same persons, with 8% of all complaints filed against one municipality by 2 applicants. That is why, in the next period within the capacity of the Information Commissioner, one of the main priorities is to strengthen public awareness of access to information. We spent 40 educations over the past year and participated in 41 public events, so a total of 81 events to say so, however, it was obviously not enough for the public to actually start asking for more information. I would also point out that there is a reduction in the number of complaints brought against the High Administrative Court which is, in fact, a judicial collateral body in relation to the decisions made by the Commissioner, which shows on the one hand that public authorities are starting, and citizens who are addressing requests are beginning to respect the decisions of the commissioners to a greater extent without suing the court. However, some 2012 and 2013 cases are still being resolved before the courts, which is negatively maintained on the right to access information. We carried out 21 inspections and made 104 measures to improve the application of the law. However, inspections have only just begun in September, so we are only at the beginning with thorough supervision of individual bodies. So, out of nearly 6,000 bodies, we've only processed 21 for now, within our capacities. As far as the offenses are concerned, so the violations are also committed this year, in fact, the defendants' proposals for violations against the perpetrators, or the law breakers, are, in fact, minimal. Like every year, they move around 10. The fact is that, in fact, the criminal sanctioning in the context of the existing regulation in the law is relatively ineffective both in procedure and in view of the fact that it is impossible to punish the public authority. So, by amending the law, we can no longer punish only the body but the individual in it, which, of course, opens up a whole series of procedural problems and does not allow effective sanctioning. However, here I am, in fact, summing up, two key areas other than this, but a traditional flaw in the resolution of citizens' demands, so two key critical areas are insufficient to carry out public consultation when regulations are passed and the same poor opening of data. As regards the implementation of public consultation at central level, an e-consultation portal has been established to enable central government authorities and any other bodies wishing to carry out such consultations through the portal. Of course, there are areas for improvement which we are also dealing with in this report and we are dealing with, but the key problem of implementation of the consultation is consultations at local and regional and regional self-government level and also legal persons with public authority who, in fact, very often when they adopt on one hand general acts and various implementing regulations simply do not address the public to make their observations. In particular, the interested public who will, in the perspective of these regulations and who will be subject to specific rules, which ultimately has a negative impact on legal certainty because it is very quickly shown that a non-quality regulation should be amended. Another problem is the adoption, especially at the level of the law, the adoption of emergency procedures, thus excluding public consultation, which we have citizens’ representations all the time. However, once the law has already been passed except for our warnings, there is not much we can do. On the basis of the consultation, it allows citizens to participate in public policy making and regulation making and to actually give their input, therefore their knowledge and opinion on making as high and better rules as possible, but it also prevents unwanted influences by different stakeholders on the content of the rules. The second problem area I mentioned is therefore poor data opening. So, as I said, the EU expects all its members and I think in the end line and Croatia has participated and participates in the design of certain elements of the EU's data-opening policy, so it expects all its members to make the most of all the data that are not used in the public sector in a way that they can be computerly exploited so that the economy and, in particular, the academic community, researchers, media and associations can use them to create additional benefits for society. The benefits expected from open data in the EU are measured in billions of euros. Croatia does not stand in some comparative case compared to the EU much worse but we are still, for example, according to the measures of opening data in the second one, not in the first group of leaders but those who still have a lot to do. Given the planned adoption of the strategy for the development of e-Croatia, I hope that the other bodies, in particular the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Administration and the Ministry of Entrepreneurship, will be more engaged in this part. As a whole, to bring an end, it is necessary, in the next period, as we say in several places, to strengthen the capacity of the public administration body in particular their knowledge and expertise in implementing the rules and also to respect the constitutional rights of citizens to access information and to participate in the adoption of regulations, which will ultimately stop both the number of complaints and the number of representations addressed to the Commissioner and, as a result, which they seek or consider that their right is limited or that their right is prevented. It is particularly important from our understanding, so according to our cases, that information is properly used by the public authority to the public through the media, because the practice we experience on a daily basis shows that the media is half-transmissioning information and then citizens have to search through the demand for full information. It is precisely strengthening the awareness of all those involved in informing the public that both the public authorities and the media and associations are necessary to ensure long-term law enforcement. In the report, we recommend the measures taken by the authorities since the construction of the statutes, the model of the statute provisions for access to documents by local representative bodies assessed by the Government outside its jurisdiction. However, we still believe that, given that the right to access citizens is guaranteed by the Constitution, that it must also be exercised towards individual groups, especially local council members in an appropriate way, in such a way that local units which are not able to develop themselves and do not have these capacities and knowledge to know who and what information should be given to offer them at will some model of constitutional provisions. It is also necessary to supplement, or finally, the new Data Securitisation Act and the Media Act. Finally, we call on the Croatian Parliament to continue to strengthen the capacity of information commissioners who, with their current 8 employees, could not fully monitor and encourage the application of the law to 6 thousand public authorities. The budget increased by 21% compared to 2014 and the number of employees from 4 to 8. In addition to achieving the right to access information, it is essential that civil society associations' programmes as well as local and regional units' associations help achieve the purpose of the law and also the Commissioner for Information achieves a full range of activities in strategic documents such as the Corruption Prevention Strategy, the Open Authority Partnership, the Public Administration Reform Strategy, the National Human Rights Protection Programme and the future e-Croatian Development Strategy. Thank you, I'm open to questions later.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8208	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. She's the first to be the respected representative of Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8209	Your Honor, Commissioner, here's what I'm going to do to you. I'm going to replicate things that I think are important. The first is, in terms of transparency of public money spending. So corruption and non-transparentity is what could be seen and seen through the remarks that have arrived in your office, the lowest, i.e. The highest on the lowest level. Public money is a public matter and it should be important how public money is spent. Some countries like the United States, like New Zealand, like Australia, spend public money in budgetary development and show it online until the last item, and thus all citizens have insight into how their last dollar is spent, i.e. their last kuna, and this should become a scratch in Croatia. The fact is that in Croatia not only is it not a practice but it is far from it and it needs to be strengthened capacity, not only that the units of local self-government but also the ministries do so, and this can only be done through a systematic proposal or through a proposal of national legislation. Of course, there's also awareness-raising. So my question to you, therefore, is whether and how much, and have you initiated, that through a bill that should de facto cover this obligation you try to make public money that, to which citizens have the right to access how to spend in some way through bill proposals, you should show how it is spent at all levels including units of local self-government. And was there a willingness from the ministry to initiate more money in the awareness campaign of all citizens on what they have the Constitution guaranteed. Otherwise, I congratulate you on your work and on what you've been doing, but I'm telling you that in that office, there are only 6000 thousand public authorities in that office, there are only 8 people talking about how low the awareness of spending public money or the right to access information is. So here's my question.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8210	Thank you, Commissioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8211	So as far as spending budget money is concerned, there is a legal obligation for all public authorities to publish it in a machine-readable form, so let's say in the form of excel tables their consumption on an annual basis. Of course, that obligation is respected somewhere, and in fact we are, in each individual case, incentivizing and in fact determining public authorities' measures to fulfil that obligation. As I say, there are a lot of them and it's simply a situation where you have to in some order and some technique from one to the other simply at a personal level to warn them to do so. There's a search engine at the state level, but it actually shows, it's not adequate enough yet, so it's really necessary to enable such a set of data, the amount of data that will help whoever's dealing with this is doing an analysis on consumption. For the time being, it is only at the level of mere information per individual body at the central state level, therefore at the level of the budgetary user of the state budget. As far as the campaign is concerned, we, I hope that within the EU funds, we will be able to secure some of the campaign funds. However, other ministries within their own portfolio can also implement this law in a way that, in the context of their resolutions, they are aware of certain information that is important to users, especially in those parts that are from today, I will say key importance, such as energy, the environment, etc., where we also have specific provisions on transparency. I hope I answered.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8212	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Blaženko Boban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8213	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mrs. Anamaria Musa, I warmly welcome you. And one part of the replica really took from me from Bernardić and one part of the replica really took me from Bernardić, but there is another part because I really sign everything that he did through the replica and finally asked the question. You said in your presentation here, and journalists should be further educated and informed. However, I think that journalists, and I don't mean professional journalists and people from prominent journalists' houses, but on local portals, I don't know what everything, because they really do, and I'm going to give you a fully-opened wall with a certain capital from local communities and a wider area, the county, so I can't talk about national level because I'm not currently addressed to that segment, they do. For example, the law says, the Act of Access to Information that within 15 days you have to give information to someone when someone is looking for information. Public procurement law, a certain public procurement law, to conduct public procurement within 30 days and then appear to you from a local level a certain journalist and he asks for information regarding this public procurement and ultimately distributes all this to certain entrepreneurs who are not sure whether they will be able to make public purchases at that time. Yes or no. In this segment, I really need this conflict with other laws that are under way, some processes need to be coordinated and, of course, that code of journalists in the segment of access to public information I think it should be a little bit better arranged because they usually, as professional journalists do at national level, do not work at such levels because they are ultimately not journalists but have formed their own portal and serve on behalf of a particular company, capital or firm in that area or local administration. And I think in that segment, too, that press code should do something about access to information, and you've been exposed to it, in that segment, and you've touched something. And of course legally harmonize it all together regarding this segment of public procurement and the laws that are in the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8214	They will answer the honourable Commissioner, Anamari Musa, to the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8215	Thank you. Here's a little bit about the media. So already in 2014, we started with the education of journalists, about how to achieve access to information we will continue to develop this cooperation, of course the visitation is relatively weak because journalists may think they do not need it but I hope it will be strengthened. The biggest problem is actually in practice when half the information is given to the public precisely because the public authority does not receive adequate information and I have already concluded in this report that there is no more active information from the public than the public authorities themselves, especially from the Ministry and Government, when a particularly media campaign for individual policies is missing. We have noticed that when a law is changed then there are increases and demands and complaints about a particular issue rather than at first informing the public in an appropriate way what some law is making, why things are changing and that a public debate is being held before. So, all these problems are connected. Thank you. We'll pay more attention to what you said about the media.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8216	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8217	Thank you, Mr. President. We've had a lot of commissioners working together in the construction of the 2013 law and amending the law and about 95% of the things we've agreed on, these 5% refer to breaking provisions. Well, since I didn't convince you of my position, I consider it my personal failure, so at least that's mine, I'll share it with my colleagues. So, you mentioned punishing the public authorities' bodies. I find that pointless, indeed. So first someone who's on the budget if you go to punish, then from one point the budget will be transferred to another, it doesn't make any sense. If you go to punish these locals, then the local budget will transfer something to the state. This makes some sense, but not too big, because this deficit in the local budget will pay citizens through higher taxes or if it is a local company, then through a higher water price, etc. Therefore, I still feel that the bodies should not be punished as such but as responsible persons in them. This, of course, leaves the courts a little loose and can be more focused on those who have made a lot of contributions to breaking the law and I also believe that the infringements in the 2013 Law were too wide and that there is actually no one involved, to whom the law applies, which has not committed any offence in this regard. For example, the Ministry of Finance in the last term of the Government could be criminally punishable for failing to hold a public consultation on the Swiss franc law, and the MUP in this meeting could also be punishable for failing to consult for this State Border Surveillance Act. Not to talk about MPs when they're legislators that they should do so after public consultation. So, I think as far as the infringements are concerned, I think this regulation is better than it was in the past law, but I believe we'll still discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8218	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8219	Thank you. I'm glad we encouraged this debate because this is an extraordinary place to discuss it, even this 5% related to criminal provisions, I agree partly with the grounds for punishment, and I don't think it's a problematic new solution. In fact, in any case, the Commissioner needs to conduct the whole procedure so that he can punish someone. However, who is being punished is, from my point of view, problematic because we see it in practice. I agree that from your point of view of the entire system, the transfer of finances from one house to another does not have much effect but from the aspect of each head of the body of the public authority, his budget is only his budget, if he is left without the money that would have to be punished, of course it will encourage him, that possibility will encourage him to respect the law. We now have situations, let's say against the Croatian Football Federation, a violation that we have initiated that the indictment proposal was rejected because the president of the Croatian Football Federation did not sign the indictment proposal but that he was only received by the body and that we could punish the body then we could punish them. So let's say that's one situation where that solution didn't turn out well, maybe it shows up in relation to some other regulations, and it doesn't make sense. But with regard to access to information, it is very important that every public authority knows that they will lose part of the budget if they do not respect the law. And we, on the other hand, have cases of misdemeanor punishment of individual leaders who were leaders three or four years ago, and now they're doing a whole other job and it's actually a relatively pointless procedure, because we're punishing a person, not a body. Here's my comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8220	Thank you. The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8221	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Commissioner, fellow parliamentary representatives from this report, which was excellently made with the number of teams that count this report speaks of the right to information of all, essentially in 2015, at which level Croatia is an unregulated state. In 2015, we say that a quarter of the taxpayers who were supposed to report to you did not give the information rights. So, in 15 years of things that are most important to us, which our citizens are obliged to know entrepreneurs all who intend to build this society to the better did not have that information, so we have examples of how much this has leaked on the one hand and on the other. I see that former ministers appear in public procurement, employment, intransparency of spending money and incentives and various things that have been allocated without our citizens getting all the information and we see it from this report. When we look at it, it means how to define it. Under one, a basic omen, this is said to be many things in Croatia, i.e. Most things were done under the grain or under the table. That's why it's a society now, and I'm really disappointed when you've put this kind of effort into it, there's no sanctions because they're very nothing, they need to be more severe sanctions, so let's be clear. Let local self-government or someone else pay for it, but let the public know. I'm particularly disappointed to hear eight people say he's here on the committee. Eight people, and when we see that we have 200 agencies, and half of those agencies are somewhere from the circus, and half of the agencies, half of them have no goal at all, no purpose, no purpose. So here the triba is one reinforced team and there's room without new employment. There are those who don't know what they're doing in our offices, agencies, administrations and others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8222	The debate was first reported by the party of Croatian Labourists – the party of work and the distinguished representative Jaroslav Pecnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8223	I think this report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information and the general work of the Commissioner for Information is very important because it testifies to the openness of our society, possible efficiency, trust in the institutions, and in fact this transparency is in itself proof that the fight and effective fight against corruption is possible. What I can resent with this report, I did yesterday and on the Committee on Human Rights and National Minorities and I said so I will repeat here. The report, in my opinion, is very correct, even if very well written, objectively and in any case immediately, we will say that on behalf of the club we will support this report. But apparently Mrs. Musa has experience with the parliamentary deputies, so she assumes that it is not read carefully, so she repeated the same things both in the introduction and in the discussion and in the conclusion of the budget. Someone's just going to introduce, someone's just going to conclude, and then there's still going to come up with a leg that I want to say, like, give you a message. Well, if that's a methodology, then that's fine, but I don't think there's much to be said to burden myself with the amount of material because it's self-representative and it's really saying a lot. It was found here that 76% of the public authorities gave their report, 24.5 did not, and the question immediately arises why they did not, which are the reasons. If someone is obliged to point out, we heard that and Mrs. Musa said that she couldn't punish the bodies, or sanction the bodies, maybe just sanction the persons. I don't think even a person can. And then there's the point of meaning if you can't make a person, or what she can do, so at least I understand, so I'll do it again. If I was wrong, I'd ask you to correct me, which means about like this. You don't give a report, then Mrs. Musa or someone writes her report, sends a person into the public authority's body, she doesn't want to sign it because if she signs it, or she puts herself in an awkward situation. So it doesn't sign it. What remains to Mrs. Mussi but to file a misdemeanor, address the Criminal Court. However, the judge of the Criminal Court says he cannot process it because the report is not signed. It's said, but he didn't want to sign, he was introduced to matter but he didn't want to know. The court doesn't accept that. And there's a question of why this procedure would be when we know in advance that it's not going to be anything. If it counts on priests being maybe, excuse me, that politicians will be ashamed of what they don't sign, so it will somehow cause public disgrace. I'm afraid it's a bad habit. That's about it, that's why I mentioned the priest because it was on my mind. It's like believing that a priest of any religion of confession will advocate communist ideas. So he won't, the politician won't blush, because he's just living to not blush unless he's left-handed, but it's already something else. But it should be reminded when we talk about this report, that the Commissioner for Information was not always welcome. Let's remember the beginning. If it hadn't been for the British Embassy, I'd be calling for an interview by Mrs. Moses, who I've read in my time, so I repeated it, where she says, but she treats us like an NGO since the early 1990s. Because in the early 1990s I was a member of an NGO that was then declared the main enemy of Croatia that dealt with human rights. I know about what he meant by that. But fortunately, the situation has now improved so that they now have even eight employees. But of course it's very, very little so that you could actually do everything effectively. It was established as the central catalogue of databases tells us and on 31 December 2015 it was concluded that there are over 6,000 public authorities and over 4500 employees. This should all be controlled in some way because the Commissioner for Information is some sort of correction of power. And I think that we should help him and appeal to the Budgetary Parliament and to the Government that proposes the budget, let us not forget that the Parliament appoints and resolves the Commissioner, means to appeal to us or to the Government to increase the resources for the work of the Commissioners. They are constantly increasing from year to year but we see for ourselves that it is quite weak and little if we talk about the need to carry out a number of consultations, we need to do inspection work. Finally, as Mrs Musa advocates accessing the Council of Europe Convention on Access to Official Documents, as Croatia's legislation is reportedly adjusted and fully complies with these standards and there is no reason not to access it in any way. Over 18,000 requests and 900 requests for re-use of information were submitted during 2015. The vast majority has been resolved, only 2% or 77 cases haven't been adequately solved. The question arises, if it is not adequately solved, what are the reasons why are they not? The arguments are usually quite bureaucratic, the civil society does not fit the Information Law no matter what that means. It's kind of a kind of I would interpret the discretionary rights of officers who do that, who aren't sufficiently educated or simply want to conceal something that I believe isn't a common case, but it happens, is it, in a way, that information is particularly about finance, donations, everything that actually gets in the way of something that's public, which has been talked about here, which is public money. Over 620 complaints were received during 2015, 58% were resolved. She also cited Ms. Musa, and I think that this is the data that needs to be repeated and which should be concerned, which is that on the 10 correct reports valid, solutions, the decision is 17 of those who are invalid. Now, maybe that's where the emphasis should be put on how to improve the state of things in the Republic because what was there was and we can't change it, but eventually we can see what we can do to make things better, right? More frequent inspections should be carried out in any case. But that's what the money's asking for, we said. Then the education of officials needs to be improved and I think it's important, and that's something you mentioned in the report, but not to that extent and as much as I think it should be, and that's to take care of the territorial key. It means that everything is not how to say stationed only on Zagreb and the surrounding area, but on the whole of the Republic of Croatia because the main problems are mainly being identified in the area of local and regional self-government. Media services should also be used, and journalists should also be instructed to educate, in the right way, how to deal with this problem and to sensitize the public to understand the meaning of the right to access information, which it actually means for society. Improve the organisation of work in public authorities, then I suppose a new classification of documents should be made. When we talk about the new classification of documents, I'm not that professional, but I guess it's that there are reports, data, information that is related to the IDP, which is related to the National Security Council or I don't know about something like that which is then, for usually justified reasons, not for public use. But let's say, for example, if we have a case like Mrs. Petir listed 300 MPs who are on Serbia's MUP, and apparently the Ministry of Interior of Croatia knows it, then I don't see the reason why I don't do it now, so I see what it is, it's not my concern, is it, but in any case, that people who are on these warrants know they're on these warrants. That should sort of work out. It may not belong to this Law on the right to access information, but in any case, we often go after it, and Mrs Musa warned me yesterday, the information that we personally want to use, but which is not of public importance, or does not have any public importance from what information everyone can access and has the right to access. And one more thing is, in my opinion, important and that's how to communicate with civil society. It is stated here that, let's say, the Commissioner has made good contact and coordination with GONG, so she warns of an open government project and citizens' trust, Transparency International etc. And really civil society is something that's actually some lacmus paper of the whole community. However, if we see how the new Government, first of all the Ministry of Culture, refers to a civil scene or at least one large part of a civil scene that is in some way perceived as something undesirable, something that needs to be contained, or in any case should be marginalized, so I would even say there is a kind of mobbing part of civil society going on, and then the question is, how much will both the Commissioner and everything he advocates be effective, it makes sense if we actually raise some standards on the one hand and on the other hand, we are choking those standards. After all, we see the first results themselves, the quality of the media in Croatia has fallen according to research. We lost five places on that ranking list. Now, let's say that Serbia is in front of us by media quality if we can put it that way, which should also be something that might concern us. As much as you would like to accept this information or not, they stand and are used internationally and publicly. It should also be warned of a fact that Mrs Musa optimistically mentions and says a number of complaints have dropped. She interprets it as, at least that's how I realized, increased trust with institutions. I could accept that part, but what I said yesterday, and that's that, actually, it seems to me that the citizens have resuscitated, that it's some sort of passive resistance, we're just writing so much, we're asking to solve certain cases, and there's actually nothing left of it, and then we're not writing anymore because we don't expect anything. But in any case, her work should be welcomed and supported and financially strengthened because it is in the interest of all of us. So we support him on behalf of the club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8224	Thank you. Here's the debate that caused a few replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8225	I'd agree with you fellow if there was no transparency. However, this non-transparency is not accidental, these are political elites in the past 20 years, so they have worked aimly because if they had been willing politically, any authority could have settled the issue. Of course, we're looking at local or regional or state administration, here's the job. Of course, it is the interest of those in power who are not normal in a democratic society to preserve this job competition, to hide or to hire someone in Dalmatia to go out in Slavonia to make that mandatory legal call public or in Rijeka and to go out in Dubrovnik. They're problems, and so they're made by the political elites that have run the country now. This is the 2015 report, you mentioned the '90s, you mention wartime as the victim's time. You mention civil society, that civil society is the most important segment and should be strengthened but not strengthened that we are four, five people in Croatia hold lectures nonstop and continuous. Well, I remember you, you did the same in civil society, so it was just you and a couple on TV all the time and so on in public. That's not good. So you need a wide spectrum regardless of why civil society must not be attached ideologically to any political option regardless of the left, to the right, to the centre, but to defend the interests of society, to the interests of a common little man. That's why corruption, not transparency, is in public procurement. So why our businessmen, why do the businessmen flee from Croatia? Well, this is the problem. Not everyone has the information, the information is the most expensive. Well, that's where the political elite are. This is not a report from the '90s, this is a report from 2015 and you are now, you entered the list with the Croatian coalition growing. Well, the same thing was before, it doesn't make any difference. So the only thing that has to change is transparency and strengthening the Office's right to access information and give a legal framework to be sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8226	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Jaroslav Pecnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8227	Well, I think at least in this we understand that transparency is something that's important for the whole story to work. And as for the civil scene, I mentioned not to teach someone a lesson now or to cry because someone was taken money and someone didn't, but really a civilian scene has to work, let a thousand flowers bloom as they say. Therefore, both the left and the right and the worse and the ones below must have a chance equally. If it's claimed that it wasn't before, I think it was far more democratic than today, but the fact is that today what we're doing is not good for a civilian scene no matter how it is done. Here's the thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8228	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative, Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8229	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. I think the Information Commissioner's Report for the Croatian Parliament would say the most important source so that the Croatian Parliament can achieve one of the basic functions, which is control. Control, mutual control of different branches of government. What we got wasn't for one-time use, so by discussing it, we solve the problem. So we're not going to help the citizens or the information commissioners, so this is for the permanent use of every representative and every club that wants to do its task of overseeing other branches of government. In fact, the Commissioner is one of the institutions that oversees other branches of government on behalf of the Parliament. There's still a civil defender,... We have USKOK, we have the Supreme Court report, all of this is a tool for the Croatian Parliament, the representative body of citizens to achieve their task of mutual control of all branches of government. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] In that sense, I think that the report is extremely valuable, transparently, giving trends, which is the most important thing to give characteristic cases that are important for the exercise of citizens' rights. In that sense, I think it is necessary to strengthen the office but should the Commissioner for the Croatian Parliament give I would say a more frequent report in so-called real time so that the Parliament can react rather than demand that the democratic relationship of three branches of power be resolved through punishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8230	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ladislav Ilčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8231	Dear Mr. Pecnik, you mentioned the right to, so what information is important to the public and which are not. So I'm going to set you a specific example, and there's a building in Varazdin that's clearly opposite to many regulations and laws. A building permit was issued for it and the profession was shown to be contrary to these regulations. The neighbors were invited as when they were issued that building permit to manifest themselves and there they were told that nothing could stop it anymore, all of it, most of it, they did it quickly, they didn't even show them, and they drove them out. And only when they came to their senses, when they saw that before the construction permit was issued a few months ago that building began to be built and it was a residential zone where in their neighborhood instead of a house half of being built for what the masters said they were building a dormitory and that included a wider story, now not to spread the story. They tried to get information, tried to get to the project, and those at the office of urbanist who issued construction permits simply didn't give it. This includes not only the investor, the designer, the major designer, the construction department in Varazdin but even some institutions from the city and looks like the former assistant minister of construction who is from our neighborhood and simply that information they couldn't get. Then they complained to the local information commissioners who told them they couldn't give that information because the project was intellectually owned, which seems pretty funny since it was a permit for a building permit that, I don't know what all the places are. And the second question, what do you think about whether it's legal, just for a little while. When they complained to Mrs. Lucia Cahunek, the local information commissioner, they complain to her, they complain to the same person who betrayed her, then they should send it to the lady and within 15 days it hasn't gone, I don't think you've got that memo yet. So the right to appeal and the right to the public, the interest of the public. So, one and the other, in my opinion, is absolutely illogical.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8232	Answer, distinguished representative Jaroslav Pecnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8233	Well, I'm not much of an address that can answer professionally, but in any case, I agree with you that you really need to act on time and that was said because every piece of information you get later,... talks about the end. But the problem is, as far as I understand from these reports, and it seems to me, and having experience in working in local self-government as a city councilman, I don't know as a mayor's advisor once right after democratic elections, etc., and that's that a really large number of problems are with officials who really don't know, are not referred to how, in what way to react and then most learned to refuse to give information because then they're sure that's the least harm. Of course, it's not good and it's constantly being warned about the need for education, but all of what Mrs. Musa says is, it's all about money, unfortunately, and we're kind of stingy, we don't give money. And there's a problem if I've made myself clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8234	Thank you. We've all exhausted the replicas. Next up is the HDZ Representatives' Club of Honorary Representative Zarko Tušek.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8235	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Commissioner. Introductoryly, I believe that regardless of the political sign of any of our parties, we should all want to create a society of clear, democratic values and standards, because in principle the benefits that come from this are in the interest of all of us. This should not be just a principle category although it is in the case of the Law on the right to access information and by the Constitution guaranteed value, it should be a clear pattern in the conduct of all of us individually and then of each body of public authority. Given that today's 2015 report is ahead of the HDZ Club, I will try in a brief analysis to absorb the key problems of implementing the Law on Access to Information both from the positions of those who are the whole legislative framework, meaning the Office of the Commissioner for Media and from the aspect of those to whom the law applies and those are all bodies of the public authorities. According to the latest updated list of bodies that have submitted a report on the implementation of this law, the report provided 76% of the registered public authorities. It is obvious that a series of instructions, reminders and hastenings by the information committee still does not lead to the absolute acceptance of legal obligations by the public authority. In the past years, as one of the key segments of non-compliance with the Law on the right to access information, the part of the law referred to in Article 10 which is regulated by the area of so-called pro active disclosures of information which also constitute... the basis of transparency of the work of the public authority. Although a trend has been observed to strengthen the range of different visions, information via websites has not yet been addressed in terms of what types of information is being published. In particular, information so-called information is published from the position of local self-government. easier content, strategies, planning documents, general acts. Criticisms that have been addressed in particular over the past years in the sense that there is a certain kind of pre-normality in this segment of law enforcement and that all levels of public authorities will not be able to respond to the challenges of the legislator, the obvious remains justified. As also a very important part of the law is considered to be the implementation of Article 11 relating to consultation with the interested public. Out of the total number of performances 7% refers to the violation of this article of the law and in recent years to this report, it has been warned that this article of the law is not sufficiently implemented in particular in the non-implementation segment, public consultation when necessary or within a short period of time within which consultation has been carried out. The report clearly warns of a certain level of illogicality and figures although the most cumulative reports were carried out by local and regional self-government units. When taking into account their relative number, it turns out that they have carried out specifically one consultation a year. In any case, this is a negative figure given the impact of this part of the law in everyday real life. On the other hand, in the first half of 2015, a central portal for the implementation of e-consultation was launched, which during the time period since the launch, up to the end of 2015, carried out around 360 consultations on which there were 4000 600 comments, it is obvious that the dynamics of public communication exist through the opening of this portal. However, only 18% of comments have been accepted, so a realistic question is to what extent is the ultimate reach of this service sure to ensure a higher level of transparency, openness of public authorities. But on the other hand, the real public impact is clearly shown on the very process of passing legal and sublegal acts, strategies, plans and programmes. The data that is certainly very important to everyone, which speaks at the principle level most precisely to the extent that the law is generally implemented is the number of requests for access to information which was slightly more than 18000 and the number of requests for re-access to information which was around 900. It is positive in this, although it is obviously a large number of individual requirements, the fact that requirements exist shows that public understanding of being and the importance of the law itself is demonstrated. It is also good that most of the requirements are resolved within the deadline and adopted in full. In turn, however, it is not possible to absolutely establish the extent to which the openness of public authorities is truly guaranteed by the intensities that the legislator has in connection with this law. Although only 2.77% of requests are rejected, and most often this refers to the assessment of the public authority that the information requested is not considered information within the meaning of the Law on the right to access information from the statistical indicators themselves, it would be more important to enter into the content itself, the scale of the topics and issues in which a particular request is adopted, partially adopted or rejected. If we saw this every single case for which the request was rejected, then we could really talk a little more objectively about the extent to which information officers at all levels are first trained and educated, and the other really free and autonomous in their work. The full process of what I would also like to say a few words in the first level is an appeal procedure before the Committee for Information, and then, in the second level, judicial oversight of the High Administrative Court. The problem of poor capacity of the Information Commissioner's Office has already been discussed several times. Unfortunately, if we really want to make this system a stable lever for the development of our society's democratic standards, it is obvious that some additional solutions will have to be found. It's too easy to solve. The Committee for Informing the Commissioner himself can and must expect a clear plan of action, a serious analysis of the situation, and suggestions on how to address the problem in the future. The fact is, however, that in the High Administrative Court, most of the solution of the Commissioners for Information has been accepted, contributing in some way to strengthening the faith, the stability of our institutions. Of course, if we all want to believe together at all that they really have their own professional dignity. According to me, according to the HDZ club, they do. It's final. We can agree with the Commission's assessment of the transparency and openness of the public authority in respect of the Law on the right to access information from year to year is still at a higher level. It is, in fact, a logical sequence and a process in which a certain amount of political will has been invested so far, although it could only be mentioned seriously if this level of political will were realistically followed by material resources which are obviously too little at all levels. By way of derogation from the serious level of transparency and openness that are more visible in the segment of local self-government, it is understandable that this topic at local level is simply not recognised as strategic and not only because of the self-will of the local authorities, which we have talked about today, but because of the real inability, the provision of quality human capacities to deal with this topic with sufficient levels of expertise and education, and the level of objective time as well. The current local budgets place this high level of fiscal centralised of the state every single kuna in local budgets simply focusing on some other priorities. A similar problem is already clear at the level of work of the Information Committee itself. Or we single out serious resources so that the law can truly be implemented in the way it is designed or we start to think about changing the law itself and adapting our democratic ideals to our real possibilities. I believe that the awareness of the importance of the implementation of this law exists, I believe that there is awareness of the importance of the work of the Information Committee, and that is good and that we all have to work together. But democracy and democratic values of which one of the key rights to access information have its own price and it is tangible, material. Certainly, certain deviations in the system cannot be found justifiable exclusively in the lack of material resources, but in most cases a serious step depends solely on the possibility of public authorities at all levels, to invest a little more money in this whole business. Without it, there are no personnel, no education, no newer projects, no promotions, no quality organisation, and then no seriously transparent and open public authorities, and I dare say for the end, and thus neither fully sound democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8236	Thank you. We have three replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8237	Thank you very much. As a young man, you understand that in Croatia we do not all have the right to access the same information. We can't. It means we blame or transfer to the office. Of course he has to give the office information for information, commission. If we had been former authorities from both right and left on my side, if we hadn't designed it, it would have meant artisticly unimaginable numerous agencies, offices, to invest in what is key and source right to information today wouldn't be in this situation. I'll do it again, sad, but let's look the truth in the eye. If young people are thinking, I have to get out of the country, or I have to get involved in some kind of party, so I can get some information, so I can get a job. This is true, it's evidence, and it's sad. Young people are forced to either run or join some kind of political option and wait for charity and political options to get information where to get a job and how to get a job. The problem is what this office and the legal framework should change, of course, and strengthen the most sanctions. Where individual carriers of those bodies do not provide information, if possible under the Constitution, shall also be transferred. But the fact is that without transparency information, this country will be extinct both in terms of the economy and in terms of employment. For what? Because that's why a young man who's been educated is going to expect a charity of some kind of political option to get a job, to be like and a half-tron with all the qualities that exist. So basically, the problem is politics and policymaking from top to bottom, and the top is the key to everything in the last 20 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8238	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Zarko Tušek.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8239	Well, I think I agree in principle with everything you've said. This is one of your personal general assessments of the state of society in which we are, the key issues of high level of politicalization of society, the fact that politics in all the pores of this society's sphere and I, as a young man, can tell you that I am also frustrated with this fact. Today, however, we are discussing the Law on the right to access information. The report on the implementation of this law and I objectively tried to analyse the entire system, the intensity of the legislator who is healthy, the second is implementation and real life but the spirit of the law and its intensity is healthy, correct. And the people who are dealing with this problem, is that commission at the level of the state that controls the whole process, do those who have a healthy desire to implement it at the level of the public authority through the media commissioner need to be strengthened? That's what I'm talking about. I think it's the only right and healthy way, the only real way to make a better step. I agree with you that the evaluation of your society is what it is, but here you are now in a position to encourage some of your initiatives from the position of state authority. So far you haven't been able, so I encourage you and your colleagues and all of us together to look at whether 2 and something million kunas for such an important body is something that is real, and how much we spend on certain agencies that may not deserve it. But it's a matter of our responsibility and your responsibility. The easiest thing to do is to always be disastrous, criticise and create some kind of analysis in a way that is somewhat and populist to get public attention. It is much more important to find a framework, measures and propose solutions. That's what I'm asking you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8240	Thank you. Next replica, Honorable Representative Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8241	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Tušek, regarding all this about democratisation of the right to access information, we agree here. However, I would say that this report is not really a proper measure, a real reflection of how many requests for information are set because we still have this concept of eGovernment. Therefore, what is sought over these Internets or information that can be found online is not measured. It would actually be expected to happen something that still doesn't seem to be on track, which is to network these state databases so that through this e-government can come up with all the information. And in that case, these data will be much smaller because then the written form will be the exception, not more the rule. Therefore, if we talk about the degree of democratisation and the right to information in the sense in which it is realised, then this report is only a partial report and it is not complete. And in that sense, we're making some conclusions that don't take into account and this second segment is just making ourselves worse pictures than it really is. On the other hand, there is a particular emphasis to be made on what you just had, so not everything, not everyone has the right to all the information. This is only about information financed from the budget, i.e. the work of institutions financed from the budget. Everything else is not the subject of this right to this information because it's only here that it's a matter of the local government and these things that go out of the budget. It's forgotten.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8242	Thank you. The next replica, distinguished representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8243	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was gonna say one thing, so there's no confusion. So we can raise double funds to this Commissioner for Access to Information. This will not increase the availability of information. So here is the Commissioner to correct the problems that arise because all public authorities do not provide information. After all, in 2015, the funds were increased by 21% compared to 2014 so in this year's budget you could further increase it, you did not unfortunately do so. So fellow Tušek the problem is that the public authorities do not provide information. They're the ones who have to provide information. And this office and the commissioner are correcting problems and mistakes. Therefore, the availability of information must be ensured with all public authorities. They have to do it. This will increase transparency, not by increasing money to this office, which is led by the Commissioner and which work is done in a quality way.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8244	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Zarko Tušek.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8245	Well, I can agree with you, too, here. I don't think that's an exclusive criterion, but to help, it would help anyway. Because, realistically, if it's so complex and so important and so valuable a subject, and that's what the subject is about, from the level of the central bodies of control through the commission, 8 people are concerned with, and when we know how much people's less important topics are concerned, then we can't say that in terms of increasing material resources, there's no room for progress. And of course it is up to all of us that through time and perspective we insist that this is no longer a political issue, but that this is a topic that is in the interest of all of us and that we are trying to find a better legislative framework and better infrastructure so that the right to access information as a constitutionally guaranteed category is indeed a value that is unquestionable to everyone and transparent in the functioning of society as a whole. Well, that's my principled thinking about it. I think the same thing needs to be increased safely. Why not now, I wouldn't comment on that. I'd just like to say that I'd like to believe that it will be in the future. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8246	Thank you. Next debate on behalf of the HNS Club, distinguished representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8247	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Commissioner, colleagues and colleagues. At first, I would like to say that the Club of HNS Representatives of Liberal Democrats will support the Commissioner's report. I would like to remind you that the Institute of Access to Information in Croatia is not very old. It is only 13 years since the first regulation guaranteeing citizens the right to seek all information from public authorities that they consider relevant in the exercise of their civil rights. However, we who have been following this system for a little longer know that for years he has been tortured and that the state, despite the will of the Croatian Parliament, when I say the state, I mean the executive part of the government, the bodies with public authority, the authorities of the local and regional self-government have found for years all possible ways to... this law-based commitment and that in this sense we had very poor logistics support from the Ministry of Administration at the time, that for years a model was sought to not actually be found, and then the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data was responsible for the implementation of this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And only in 2014 did we go a real step further, institutionalising the Commissioner, i.e. the Commissioner in charge of monitoring the implementation of this law, or the rights that have been entered in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in the meantime. So this is when we talk about the 2015 report year of the Commissioner's work, and we need to be aware that the first or zero year in which that institute was established had to be spent on installing that institute at all, to define the most basic functions of the Commissioner's office and that already in the first year there was an expression that a whole series of elements should be changed in the fundamental law here. And that is why the changes and additions were launched in 2014 and in some ways the current model which has been working here for two years and which, as we see from the quality of this report, I would say, I would also dare say from the evaluations given by representatives of different clubs of the representatives actually fully fulfils the purpose set by the Croatian Parliament, in fact, that the Commissioner as a body appointed by the Croatian Parliament is obliged to report on what and how she was doing, that is, how the law is implemented. It is good that the government has already, on the basis of the first year of experience in the work of the Commissioner's office, realized that the financial and material resources originally determined for the work of this office are insufficient and that in 2015 it is already possible for the Commissioner's office to take over the part of the administrative logistics support that the agency has actually worked at a much better capacity than before and that here, as we have heard since 9 months 2015, has that important function and it is also an inspection in the plant. Unfortunately, the results recorded by the Commissioner's office and reported by the Croatian Parliament from year to year show no significant improvement in the implementation of the law and respect for its principles. The fact that one quarter of bodies with public authority, authorities of the administration, those financed solely or predominantly from the public budget still do not report to the Commissioner at the annual level is devastating. I wouldn't attribute it to their ignorance because one quarter is a huge number. I would rather attribute this to actually one attempt to actually delay my own obligations to provide information to citizens by ignoring legal obligations. This also shows that the information presented in the report is that those who submit reports which are subject to complaints, even in two-thirds of the cases where they resolve these complaints and requests, do so wrongly and illegally. That's a huge number. And that's why it's a good thing he's working on the inspection section in the commissioner's office. It is my suggestion that he is first and foremost sent to the great ones who have not yet sent any reports, to ask them about heroic health, to see if they have really disobeyed their legal obligation because they did not know her or for any other reason but that ad hoc raids simply commits to all those who are obliged to obey the law to do so regularly and do so. This information that 10 legitimate and properly printed solutions still comes to me 17.2 seems to me, solutions that are illegal is also alarming. This means that those who are obliged to serve citizens with correct information or properly implemented procedures that are simply ignoring the law from citizens' professions. In other words, they do as they please. It also testifies to the incompetence of the system, as well as its subjection to the law. It's a very important piece of information, it's a lacmus paper that can testify that our entire administration and the entire public sector are easily crossing across the border called law enforcement. As there is in the judiciary that term of vehement litigation, it is certain that there are also people who cut their free time short by sending strong demands to public authorities because they are thus trying to exert a certain type of pressure for this or that reason. As a countermeasure, many units of local self-government have tried to ignore these requirements in such a way as to interpret them as administrative procedures and to impose barriers through the introduction of fees and the introduction of charges. So those who are not at all committed to the so-called so-called. a clear regret rather than having legitimate rights but also a legitimate goal and the reason why they complain about the conduct of certain bodies of public authorities. In this respect, the Commissioner's office will have years and years of work in education, guidance, opinion-making, monitoring and inspection of the entire system. But as important as this institute is to testify to the fact that citizens' trust is in public power, read the country in proportion to the country's response to their needs. A huge amount of citizens demand information because their rights are denied, which is deafened to their needs, not because they are provided with quality, fast service and timely information. That's why this institute is extremely important. In order to strengthen trust between citizens who pay public service and the state and the central and local and the state itself, which must not, regardless of its central or local nature, never get the impression that it is its own purpose. Bureaucrats don't like to be warned that their pay goes out of citizens' pockets, sometimes politicians don't like it either, but it should be repeated over and over again. We wouldn't be sitting here as professional if our salaries weren't set aside by citizens. In this respect, they are in full right to require any public authority, with public authority, whether it is a body of state, local, regional administration and self-government or a body of public office. So they're absolutely right to know how their money is spent and how. Is that meaningful, is it legal? And whether they achieve the basic goals that the state must meet by providing citizens' services. The role of us as legislators is that if it is possible every year to carefully read all the recommendations written by the Commissioner at the end of this report, to strengthen its capabilities, capacities, to encourage it to be more on the ground through inspection services and to educate as much as possible all those who are obliged and see even by name and last name 4 000 600 Commissioners for Information in different administration bodies. So, they do their job right. Practice shows that whoever appears their actions, decisions and all forms of solutions that they make out of public interest are in a way that puts it on the Internet, puts it on their websites, that it appears through different portals, that is the number of requests and complaints smaller. Therefore, this procedure should also be intensified, encouraged, and if there is a way to co-finance. If a small municipality has insufficient resources to develop such an active portal rather than just a simple website, there must be a way to help it from the county level or through a project that will be sponsored by a state that will directly help the appearance of all documents. But let us understand both in this phenomenon and in the opening of the debate process to the interested public, we must be ahead of them. Today you get on the bench a proposal to expand the agenda. There are 14 draft laws on this extension, all under emergency procedure. The government has not yet delivered a single law to the Croatian Parliament for three months in a regular procedure. What does that mean? This means none of these proposals could be demonstrated by the interested public. So let's be aware of what we're doing here and the Commissioner points to that. Every regulation that comes to the Croatian Parliament and is adopted in a deprived, urgent procedure brings the risk that we have not promoted it well, that we have not asked smarter than ourselves, more experienced than ourselves and those to whom the law will apply what they think of this proposal. It is not good when parliament returns to the same legal text five times with amendments and additions. It's better to do it once, but then keep it running longer because we're going to achieve the stability of the system. A country where laws are often changed is a country where it is easy to do business or to live in. So, the following conclusions and recommendations from the Commissioner are also called on the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament to promote well what our tasks are in this business and to set a positive example and not to mock the owls to have a big head. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8248	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Stevo Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8249	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here I'm going to ask one smarter question and those who have more information than we do, so tell me what's bothering me, which I can't find out here in the Croatian Parliament for a long time, which is that someone has made clear to us the situation around the building 21, 23 in Preradović Street, about the property that the former Technical Government gave to Mr. Milorad Pupovac on 28.12. Information on 170 pieces of weaponry from the Varazdin Police Department. Former Minister Ranko Ostojic's information on our Dark Pajcic from Vukovar. Smarter than us.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8250	Answer the distinguished representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8251	Since Col. Culej is in the first term in the Croatian Parliament, do not take this as no doctoring, just as technical assistance. Any representative and representative in the Croatian Parliament can use the Institute of Representative Affairs unlimitedly. Not on the current clock, because there are limited number of possible questions, but in writing. And I ask you nicely to address the ministers, or the Croatian Government in writing. They are obliged to answer each of these three questions within 30 days of the date on which they are accepted by the President of the Croatian Parliament. If you don't get that question, you have the right to protest the plenary session and call the government and the specific minister why he didn't give you the answer. Since you are part of the ruling majority, I hope that the Government will not violate the appointed Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament set a deadline of 30 days and that before summer you will know all these questions, of course, provided you ask them. Cheers!
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8252	Thank you. It is up to SDP advocates' club, distinguished representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8253	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I could almost sign my colleague's discussion at the HNS Club and say I have nothing to add. But here I am going to use these ten minutes of my own to say a few of our thoughts. Of course, right away at the beginning I want to say that our club will support the report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2015. Our contribution to this important topic will begin by quoting the latest report on the perception of Transparency International's corruption index, which says that on a scale of 168 countries according to the corruption perception index Croatia in 50 places with 51 points and that last year it progressed by 3 points and 11 places, thus leaving a circle of countries that we can consider corrupt. The preventive authorities in the fight against corruption, such as the State Audit, the Commission for the Decision on the conflict of interest, the Commissioner for Information and the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, should be constantly provided with sufficient financial resources and professional capacity, and should make it impossible to have a political impact on their work. It is crucial to ensure transparency and reduce the possibility of corruption in every society, so of course in Croatia. In particular, it is important to encourage citizens' activists in the daily push for positive social values such as trust, especially honesty. Citizens need to be free from fear of reporting corrupt actions and any irregularities. The role of civil society organisations in these processes is large and should certainly be encouraged by the work of these organisations on the enhanced volunteering of its members. So it is clear from what I quoted from this year's Report on the Perception of Corruption Index, that the right to access information is one of the fundamental tools in preventing corruption, and that an analysis of the success of the implementation of the Law on the right to access information is an indicator. Col. Beus mentioned this, the 2014 Law Implementation Report was the first such full report since the establishment of a new Information Commissioner institution whose task is to protect, monitor and promote the right to access information guaranteed by the Constitution by all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but also by foreigners governed by the Law on the right to access to information from 2013. So last year was the first time we had a full report. The second time this year, so it's interesting to compare those two reports to see if there's a shift. So the only meaning of the report we have ahead of us is that on the basis of what it says, we see what to do to make a problem better and better solved. In this case, the right to access information would be provided to citizens as best possible. What is immediately visible compared to 2014 in 2015 was 5% more of those who, according to the law, were bonds to provide and ensure access to information as fundamental instruments to strengthen the responsibilities of all public authorities, their legal conduct and careful availability of public funds according to principles and efficiency and economics, as well as a means of countering and preventing corruption, which enables them to act in a very flexible way against all those who work or run public authorities in a way that they are always and at all times aware that their activities and their decisions are all the time in front of the light of the public. It's actually the most effective way to fight corruption. Also, the Law on the right to access information enables authorities to open up to citizens. So our goal must be to open power. Three basic objectives that must be met by implementing this law. The first information to the public on the work of the public authority, the consumption of public money and the decisions made to ensure the legality and accountability of the authorities, prevented corruption and of course informed the public. To this end, the two basic obligations of the public authorities are to pro-actively publish all that information about their work on their websites and also to provide information at the request of citizens in accordance with the provisions of the laws and do so quickly, effectively and legally. Here's a colleague and a colleague this is actually crucial, that's how to ensure access to information. So that's what I said in the replica and my colleague Tušek, and I'm going to do it again. Of course, the Commissioner is very important in ensuring the implementation of the law, but this is the key to ensuring that citizens receive at all times any information concerning public authorities. So, that the public authority, I will repeat it once again, proactively publish all that information about their work on their websites and, of course, if that information is not available at the request of citizens in accordance with the provisions of the law. The second objective of the law, which is very important, which was also mentioned by my colleague Beus, which in these 100 days has practically not been reached by the Government in any case, and I am afraid that some of the laws and regulations in the Constitutional Court will fall because consultation with the interested public has not been carried out, so the second objective of the law is to enable citizens to consult on all decisions taken in the form of laws and certain other regulations, general acts or strategic documents, and therefore the law prescribes the obligation to consult the public. The third obligation of a public authority which is not known enough because it has been implemented since 2013 and it is also very important and very important that all citizens, in particular entrepreneurs and bodies and civil society, be able to use information owned by public administrations in the form of computer-readable information in order to create new products and thus improve economic and social development. So that's all this law allows. If we compare 2014 and 2015, so let's see if there have been any shifts to better or worse, what's important to say is that in 2014 not every 3 bodies of public authorities have submitted a report, so almost 40% of them, while in 2015 the number is smaller, and significantly. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 23.59% of the public authorities failed to fulfil this obligation, about 1300 bodies did not appoint information officers which is 20% again an improvement compared to 2014 when that percentage was 40%. We saw that in 2014 there were 22 thousand requests, 2015. 19 thousand demands. And it would be good if, if that's true, we don't know if that's true, but let's hope so, that's because it's available by the way, for example. The web portal was large enough so it was not necessary to submit requests in this way. We saw that Commissioner 2014 had 807 complaints, 2015. 906 and that the rate of resolution for the current year was higher than it was in 2014. It is interesting, of course, that complaints are mostly filed by citizens, 67%, journalists 4%, legal persons 19%. My colleague Beus mentioned one interesting thing, he called it no longer known what it was like, resilient complainants or complainants. Unfortunately, there are also such people who simply have no basis for their persistent demands, since this information has been made public by public authorities and create problems in meeting the obligations of citizens who really need this information. It should be possible to find a way to free those persistent applicants of information publicly available to them in some way. As regards the complaints themselves as in 2014 and 2015, two-thirds of the complaints concerned the silence of the administration and that is, of course, one of the priorities that should be taken into account in ensuring the right to access information to all citizens. Interestingly, I must quote this, therefore, from the resolved complaints from those situations which were resolved before the Commissioner or possibly still before the High Administrative Court, it is apparent that public authorities reject or reject requests for access to information most often under the law unfounded reasons or the ratio of legal and illegal decisions by public authorities was 10 to 17 which was a deterioration compared to 2014 when it was 10 to 12. Which means that simply exactly the job done by the Commissioner through educational activities is one of the key ways to increase availability through the implementation of the Law on the right to access information. In particular, what the Commissioner for 2015 pointed out in the 2014 Report is that one of the most common problems in the implementation of the Law on Access to Information Act was, therefore, one of the priorities of 2015, an insufficient level of proactive publication of information on the public authorities' websites of both the quantity of information published and the type of information, as well as in terms of formats and accessibility for citizens, because it thus deprives them of the fast and accessible way of public information and is forcing them to use legal means that can often be long-term. And this also burdens only the body of one authority because they have to carry out the procedure instead of having the information easily, quickly and easily available on the website. So once again I point out which is the key way to increase the accessibility of all the information that is needed. Last year, the Commissioner recommended and asked the public authorities to follow the law and publish all the information they are obliged to publish and inform the public about their sessions and those decisions taken at these sessions as well as better public consultation in the adoption of all laws and regulations. The next thing you know, as far as acting is concerned, so the silence of the administration is still the biggest problem. There is a problem with respect to legal deadlines, there is a problem of knowing the implementation of administrative procedures not only in companies that could be expected to do so but especially in local self-government, which is actually somewhat surprising and worrying. What is certainly important to emphasise, as I said in the single replica, the Commissioner stressed last year that there are insufficient capacities of the Office for the Implementation of All Jobs, which have thanks to the 2015 budget, which has been increased by 21% by 21%, and thus the Commissioner's remark is in some way removed, which does not mean that the budget of this office should be increased in the coming years. What we can conclude is what the report also says, which I will specifically quote for citizens who hope to see this because this is in some way education and for them how I can increase the availability and information they are interested in. Therefore, the overall assessment is that the state of transparency and openness of public authorities is gradually improving both in the direction of strengthening the publication of information on the Internet and in the quality of the user-requirement and as a result of the better competence of the public authorities for law enforcement and greater awareness of the importance of transparent and open work. Given the intensified monitoring and promotion activities in addition to regular protection proceedings under appeal, public authorities become more aware of their obligations and skills in law enforcement. What is worrying is the most significant deviations from a satisfactory level of transparency and openness have been observed in particular at the level of local and regional (regional) self-government. Finally, I can say that we as a club support this report and we want the Commissioners to ensure, especially through educational activities, that the right to access information to our citizens is actually another way that this government from the least municipality to the Parliament and the Croatian Government will be an open power because it will be a guarantee of increasing citizens' confidence in politics and politicians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8254	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Dario Hrebak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8255	Dear colleague Jovanovic, I have listened with caution to a large part of your presentation, and I must say that I agree in a large part. You also talked about the part about the law that the law of good things would make available to the Commissioner himself. But I have to point out one part that I personally disagree with and I personally feel that we could further improve the institution of the Commissioner for Information. Namely, you, as you can see in this report, have a lot of problems with disrespecting the very institution of the Commissioner for Information, especially by local self-government units. However, I also believe that, as I have mentioned, I support a large part of your presentation, but I also believe that all of us together except for the development of the system, except for the good things that we have put into law, we must also take care of raising the level of the institution, respecting the institution of the Commissioner for Information. Namely, let's just remember last year how much noise rose over the fact that HTV did not give publicly available information on the heights of the manager's salary on HTV. And if it hadn't been for HNS, if that debate hadn't been triggered here in the debate, if it hadn't been for a message or give the information or you'd be flying out, we wouldn't have had important pay information in such a big system as HTV by today. I therefore think that it is good for us to take into account, in future, the introduction of provisions concerning sanctions, as regards strengthening the institution of the Commissioner, so that we think about these provisions that would strengthen opportunities and strengthen the possibility that the Commissioner herself has stronger powers to sanction all those bodies and, in particular, at the local level than the least of the municipalities, to adhere to the fact that citizens have the right to know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8256	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Željko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8257	Well, I agree with you that we must always have carrots and beatings and that sometimes these repressive measures are the main incentive to carry out certain activities but I am always for preventive activities I hope that through the work of the Commissioner, through education, through everything she has done so far and for which perhaps more resources will be available in the coming period that this will be a key way to increase availability and the right to access all information that is important and interesting to citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8258	Thank you. The next debate is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj on behalf of the MOST representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8259	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear Mrs. Musa. This is what to say in 2016, and in 2015, 25% of those who were obliged to give a report on information that they did not give both from the level of local self-government and others. This is the key problem of Croatian society right to information. Unfortunately, in a democratic Republic that has standards of democracy and which has a constitution and which has legal regulations, not all citizens have the same right to information. This is why the economic situation is what it is, in public procurement matters, to be selectively supplied to the public, mainly at local level, regional and public-owned companies, and to share their information as through the legal framework. Like what? What is done in Dalmatia is published in Slavonia or vice versa, so that it does everything exactly right. It means legal frameworks, especially in employment. Both public companies and local self-government owned by all means from units of local self-government, regional to state, this could be written by novels. That's why young people run away today because they don't have the same information. It simply forces people, especially young people to be members of the political left, right, these, those, political options so that they may receive the mercy of someone and be hired. It's the worst message political elite have ever done, and it needs to be changed. If we don't change that, Croatian society will die out on the issue of young departures that we all mention about the economy. Personally, I have experience, which means I don't have or don't respond to information or the behavior of public state institutions as if it's their property in private, so for example, here's four times I've filed a criminal charges against the disappearance of a 91st-grade weapon in the Cetino area. The state's attorney's office has all the information, so far I haven't even got an answer, so money for weapons, defenses against large-serb aggression in the Cetina region. And today, these are the people who made them respectable gentlemen. Because otherwise it's respected that with such things, the respected rule becomes that whoever stole the big firm or illegally came is a gentleman, and these people of ours who are poor enough to take a pound of bread and don't pay, they'll be on the cover. This is unfortunately such a moral situation. Because of these things, like an institution, and they didn't have all the people's rights and that they don't have citizens' right to information. That is why the position of the Most is to support the Commissioner, her work and sustainability to ensure the quality and information of us and citizens and their empowerment as well as better quality work. Although it is necessary and sanctions should be imposed on those officials from local levels, regional ones and more to be sanctioned. Without sanctions, there'll be nothing. Because what happens at local levels is literally allowed to be local sheriffs, without any information, do whatever they want, information to citizens, hire, assign jobs without public procurement or illegal. And here it is visible and confirms the audit findings that were in the previous session of this call. It's billions of kunas that leak through our citizens' fingers, there's no control. From the information that... It is about the formations that public authorities are obliged to publish the most relevant information on the organisation of bodies, general acts and decisions, as well as strategic planning documents, while information on public consultation and public work insurance is published to the minimum. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The report finds that the searchability and machine readability of the information itself does not comply with the standards and that it is in vain to give up the legal obligation of timely delivery of information in the central catalogue of official documents. This report shows that 93.55% of the information requirements were resolved within the time limit with a slight increase in efficiency compared to 2014. So we've got a shift in this. It also reduces the number of outstanding requirements in absolute number 209 in 2015 compared to 221 in 2014. I see that during the reporting period there is an increase in organisation and participation in education so that we have 40 educations and 42 public events abroad, in all 1794 educated officials we have at this point in this reporting period. At the same time, 144 users were educated to access information, citizens, associations and journalists. We see that in 2015 on the user's large inquiry that he was responsible and the public authorities' bodies 417 were written queries, 13% more than in 2014. We see a total of 1670 items being handled and the construction of 3164 acts was received, 624 complaints were received and the solutions were 526. These numbers when I'm talking, you could talk further, but at least they're important numbers as to how much the question really is and factual state and outside of these numbers, people who just don't complain or are afraid to make some kind of complaint that they didn't have access to information. It means he's afraid of local sheriffs, regionals and beyond. Efforts must be directed and here the MOST-independent lists agree with the Commissioner that primarily to continue strengthening the capacity of the public authority with all levels of law enforcement including the adoption of values, transparency and openness in everyday work and action, and the development of knowledge, skills for effective application, and in particular the promotion of pro-active publication of information, public consultation and re-use of information. MOST proposes that the Commissioners make additional efforts to promote the work and role of offices in society in order to make it clearer and more accessible for citizens to access information because here is the problem of the number of employees, we only have 8, so it should increase, the MOST will advocate that this, that even more people are involved because people still do not know that they have the right to access to information, and simply by not being able to withdraw, do not react as they should. Although the steps in this matter are already being continued. It is necessary to continue to insist on the legal obligations of the public authority, above all in the field of public consultation. A key instrument prescribed by the law for the transparent and open functioning of the public authority and for successful dialogue with citizens. So the law itself is a key instrument, and these are obligations prescribed by law. The purpose is to fulfil those obligations, in particular with regard to the consultation and participation of citizens, obviously the possibility of citizens achieving their Constitution guaranteed access to information, but also in providing services to users takes place in a simpler and more efficient manner. The report shows that some authorities have not yet had information officers. So this way from this pay phone, we appeal to the bodies to do so, and we propose that if possible, the public authorities who have not appointed information officers should be made public. We can see from the report as I have said a large number of those who have failed to fulfil their obligations, legal obligations mean that they have ignored this part of the obligation to submit information reports. So 25% of the locals, 25% of the debtors didn't deliver the report. In spite of the large number of educations held, emphasising obligations, delivery of information through Commissioners' websites, delivery of user data and reminders for electronic delivery, providing assistance by the Commissioners for Information, and extension of delivery deadlines until 17 February 2016 almost a quarter of the public authorities ignored this obligation, regardless of the extended deadline a quarter ignored this obligation. Most independent lists particularly care about the strengthening of citizens' participation in the work of local self-government units so that citizens can monitor the work of public authorities more directly, and the necessary assumption is that the citizen is informed. I therefore also support the Commissioner's plan in the report to pay more attention to encouraging citizens at both local and higher levels. In 2015, a total of 7 indictments were filed against the University of Marko Marulić in Knin and responsible persons in that body, and four against local and regional (regional) self-government and responsible persons in those bodies against the town of Trilj and two against the municipality of Baska Voda. In those cases, there have been continuous fractures in law enforcement in those bodies which have been created as a result of repeated refusals by the body to act on the requests of the Commissioners for Information. Here I would end up if I didn't say the key to everything is the right to information. Information's expensive. Political elites have held them in their hands, and we must all fight together in this House against the key that they have only the right to access, on information they are only individuals and not all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. This is why the economic, economic, demographic situation in Croatian society is as it is. That is why I call on the other DORH institutions and others who are the MUP working on this to see, together with these with the right to information, and to take all the measures that the law prescribes, to stop this bad for Croatia, which is that only individuals of elites have the right to information, and ordinary citizens do not have it. And once again, I support you, Commissioner. In the bridge of independent lists, you have support and I expect that we will get your call on any issue, to coordinate and start working properly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8260	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Zarko Tušek.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8261	So I would just like to say a few words to this syntagma that is constantly passing through Croatian social and political life, which is being repeated today by fellow Bulj local sheriffs, etc. etc. I would like us to try to stay away from such labels and such difficult words in this House. The local administration is part of the Croatian state system and we here in this House should protect this system. He has had his ups, has his downs, has better quality and better people, individuals and better solutions like anywhere in the world but it is not nice to talk about one segment of the Croatian state administration, and this is local and regional self-government. In extreme terms, I come from local and regional self-government from a small town in Croatia, and most of the fellow mayors and mayors I know from my region regardless of which foreigners they belong, which political events are honorable and honest people and do their job well and quality. And in this very highly centralised state, which has reduced their local budgets to an inappropriately low level, which are technically trying to reach out to the maximum around a series of regulations that the state gives them and finds solutions in a number of problems and so on about this problem. So I believe today's report by the Commissioner on the implementation of this law is a real achievement that speaks of our joint successes and failures in the past 13 years regardless of which party it is concerned. And let it be one starting point how this system improves, create stronger and more stable in the future, but without the hard words and without discrediting the state that we are all part of. No high government, low government, high administration, low administration. The Croatian state is our only common and we are trying to respect the institutions that represent it were us here in the Croatian Parliament, and this Croatian Parliament did not begin with this assembly and with any options in the assembly. He's been around a lot longer for years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8262	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8263	Let's look our fellow man into the truth. A fact from local regional, state, public companies, so it's known it couldn't be hired. Unfortunately, young people have to listen to this, but that's a fact. If he's not attached to some political option, forced or forced to go to a third country, that's a well-known thing. He'll go... As well as local and regional self-government. [[You don't understand.]] And what kind of behavior is that? Sheriff's office. Here's a moment ago you said, this is me saying that what you're saying now is that populism is clean because you're not looking the truth in your eyes. Demagogy, paraphrases of some kind, some kind of word they don't have, a repeat from mandate to mandate. The truth in the eye is that everything is political and that this information is not all citizens, that information is not available to everyone in public procurement. So the economy was destroyed because of its incompetence because it is affected by local self-government and regional self-government. So we don't have competition. And we're not going to talk about black funds before the election, political campaigns all over the place. Well, society was brought to the bottom. And you just said pulsism. It's not populism. It's true. First, we here have to look into the truth and tell the truth that all citizens in this country are not the same. So this tells you, 25% did not give reports that were mandatory. It's absurd to say that this is populism, to repeat the same words that have been repeated here for 20 years, let's be calm. Okay, let's be cool, let's be relevant, but let's look the truth in the eye. Analyze the situation a little bit. I didn't say in all the local communities, self-government and regional. So 90% of young people don't know where that kind of policy is going to make them local in city companies, municipal, regional. 90% is set, no information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8264	Thank you. Next replica, the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8265	Thank you. Dear fellow Bully, I fully agree with you on the point that citizens have the right to information. I think it's the basic premise of this law and it's very important for us that citizens have timely true and complete information. Finally, in the 2014 Budget, we also proposed that, therefore, we put an amendment to the budget, to increase the funds to 4.5 million kuna for the work of the Commissioner for Information. Because we feel that this should also be given a certain material quality and a chance to do it in a quality way. If we were to deal with the truth then we wouldn't be talking like we heard here today the thesis that someone gave Milorad Pupovac the building in Preradovic's 21st and 22nd. Then they would tell the truth that citizens know that it is the property of a society called Education, nationalized in '58. And now the state has returned it. What's the problem? The problem is that it is Serbian property, and it is not a problem that some other assets are returning. So that's the information we need to know and deal with them in a quality way that doesn't confuse the citizens, that we don't question because the known theory is three times the repeated lie becomes true. That is why it is also necessary to support the work of the Commissioner for Information and to strengthen this mechanism and to raise it to a European level as it is in many European democracies.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8266	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8267	Well, here's what you mentioned and said some kind of business space or I don't know about the property, and it was supposed to be publicized primarily if it was the technical government. Because the technical government, I don't know exactly right now, can you assign? Because it can affect the political decision making of those who should make decisions on how they will bow down or who they will talk to. So that's what we need to talk about. And it's a good thing a fellow MP mentioned it, better to know because it's not a good thing that the technical government is giving a politician at the moment of the negotiations, not a politician, but that association, that it assigns space or returns space irrelevantly, it's not a good message. This may be considered a political pressure or a political agreement that is not good for the development of a democratic society because it may have affected your party's decision to support one option rather than another option. I'm not saying it's like that but I can say that in my opinion if it's technically the government that gave it an effect on you being placed on one side. It can work, and it doesn't have to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8268	Thank you. The next debate is on behalf of the HSLS-BUZ club's distinguished representative Dario Hrebak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8269	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Commissioner for Information, Honorable colleagues and colleagues. First, I would like to commend the report that we have all already been aware of that it is content-sighted with all the necessary information and statistical indicators that are essentially needed for us to be able to enter the very core of the report and to be able to monitor the work of the Commissioner for Information. However, I do not personally agree with those trends that are clearly shown in this report. We can't be satisfied with them at all. As the report itself states, one of the fundamental legal obligations of the public authority is to enable access to information to all potential users through their proactive publication. The published publication referred to in Article 10 of the Law constitutes the basis for transparency of the work of the public authority and plays a key role in the good governance mechanism. We all know what happens when the system fails and that basically, with system appointments, there is a fertile soil for corruption that many of my predecessors have talked about. The Commissioner for Information shall monitor and monitor the implementation of the Law on the right to access information by carrying out inspection surveillance, by acting by means of representation, by undertaking activities, by means of professional analytical procedures, and shall have the power to sanction infringements or infringements of the law. However, during today’s debate, we have seen how much it actually works and how much it applies in practice. What I am particularly concerned about in your report is the fact that in 2015, a total of 7 proposals were filed against the University of Marko Marulić in Knin and responsible persons in that body, four against the unit of local, regional (regional) self-government and responsible persons in those bodies. And these two indictments against the town of Trilja, two against the municipality of Baška Water. So it's the bodies of the unit of local self-government and you yourself have stated that this is exactly the biggest problem, you yourself have stated that problems in terms of breaking the law and silence of the administration are most present at the local level. Here's my colleague, Tušek, mentioned the local sheriffs. I wouldn't talk about local sheriffs, whether it's a decent term or not, I'd talk about that there are obviously people in this country who run local units, mayors or mayors of municipalities who obviously don't respect the law. And we have to admit to the truth in the eyes and say that such people exist, that the very institution of the Commissioner for Information is nothing to these people, that they are deafening their public calls, that they are deafening their perseverances, that citizens are entitled to know. It's not good, we can talk about these people in one way or another, but how else do we call people who don't respect the laws of this country and unfortunately, we're all guilty of not prescribing these laws clearly good enough sanctions, or not giving the Commissioner the opportunity to react and to prevent these kind of negative phenomena. An important segment of the action of the Information Commissioners is the active promotion of the right to access information and re-use of information, and this intensive implementation of educational activities aimed primarily at information officers in public authorities and other officials who, in part, face the application of the law on access to information but at the same time the user of access to information, citizens, associations, media, the private sector. What is commendable and particularly important is that the Commissioner for Information organized or participated in 40 educations and 42 public events in the country and abroad. Namely, I was just talking about this part of the sanctions and... The punishments of those who do not respect the law, but to agree with some of their speakers from before who have also mentioned the issue of prevention. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Your efforts are commendable, given that, by resembling the above data, the Commissioner for Information during 2015 has held almost more education than in 2014. And we think it's a good way, a way to go. The general assessment is that the state of transparency and openness of public authorities is gradually improving both in the direction of strengthening the publication of information on the Internet and in the quality of the user-requirement and, as a result of better training of the public authorities for law enforcement and greater awareness of the importance of transparent and open work with that part, which is listed in the report, we agree, we support. Significant deviations from the satisfactory level of transparency and openness have been observed in particular as I said in local and regional, regional self-government, part of legal persons with public authority, and companies in majority public ownership. At all levels, all groups of bodies have seen irregularities in dealing with the demands of citizens, in particular, now watch this, especially with respect to the respect of deadlines and the way to decide on the requirements to which they testify and the fact that every 10 legal solutions come 17.2 illegal solutions, which is a deterioration compared to last year when this relationship was 10:12. It says enough, and I think we can make one comparison with, for example, one investor who comes to invest in a small municipality, so when these are the bodies of local units and self-government, they treat their citizens as if they're just going to treat investors. It is particularly alarming to ignore citizens' requests for access to information since two-thirds of complaints are referred to the Commissioner for this very reason. However, the critical areas of law enforcement relate to the extremely weak implementation of public consultation, in particular at local level, and by institutions and other legal persons with public authority, as well as to the lack of knowledge of obligations relating to the provision of re-use of information, open data, as well as the implementation of the part of the law which has taken over the European acquis. Also, excluding the possibility of sanctioning the public authorities' bodies, which I have already talked about in several replicas, is also an important possibility to encourage the body to implement the law and, in fact, I would like to conclude that we will support this report. We have recognized the efforts that have been made over the past few years, although we are not satisfied with the current situation, especially in connection with the violation of the law or law at the level of the local self-government unit. Finally, I would just point out, but with and pointed out in one of the replicas, that it is important that all of us MPs also make additional efforts to think further about strengthening certain legal provisions and to further appeal to strengthen the very institution of the Commissioner to give her free hands to this one, to confront those problems that we discussed today during this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8270	Replica. Dear Representative Davor Penic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8271	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague, you have correctly concluded that the report shows that the biggest problems are local. I think it would be commendable to find that in 2015 twice as many educations were made than in 2014. And that, in this direction, prevention rather than punishing those 7 who have been punished for non-compliance with the right to access information would be much more effective over a further period of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8272	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Dario Hrebak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8273	Dear Representative Penic, the biggest problem, which I can understand is my colleague, Tušek, who has apostrophe that precisely because of these 7 is the perception of local sheriffs throughout the local level. That's not true. But precisely because of those seven, we are doing education and prevention because of all those 99% to advance them. But because of these seven, we need to impose sanctions in order to finally learn that these seven have to comply with the laws of this country. And that's why I was talking about sanctions. But, of course, prevention is generally better and we do prevention for everyone else and because of all of these 7 that create a bad perception of all the good people, the mayors and the mayors who keep working in their cities and municipalities, because of these 7 we have to react. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8274	Second replica. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8275	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Hrebak, I've been listening to debates here all morning from my colleagues, and I'd just like to ask you and all of us a question. We're here talking about access to information and whether we, as parliamentary agents, are getting the information we want. You know how many outstanding questions are left from the former government? Over 200. Here in this House is a two or three-time conclusion proposed on behalf of the Club to finally find out what is the debt of Croatian Health. To this day, practically the minister last time said he was that big. Now if we're not able to get information here, if we're not able to get answers to the questions that MPs are asking, then let's discuss it here first and then ask the office for the right to access information. You can think of what happens to an ordinary citizen if we can't get it here. So I think we skip some things, we like to politicize, we like to push towards others, these are bad, these are bad, they're like this, but look at the position we're in. Once the Ministry of Finance had daily information, a monthly report was submitted to the media, what are the revenues, what are the expenditures from the state budget, and in the last term, and you ask as a representative, you have no chance of getting the information. So let's go from ourselves, let's go from how much information we can get when we're looking for it and how much we wait for an answer, and then we'll go on solving things.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8276	Answer, distinguished representative Dario Hrebak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8277	Absolutely fellow Shuker, I support your initiative. I also spoke in my presentation about strengthening the institution of the Commissioner himself. But here's another example, let's just remember, as far as we as MPs were aware, we were practically not able to get as much information as a large institution like HTV as its employees have paid. So, you need to get out of your head, you need to start from the state level. I think there's a lot of space that the system is advanced and I absolutely support this thesis that maybe we shouldn't look at those microscopic glasses, just look at what the mayors and mayors are looking at. I think we also have a situation at a higher level where the law is not respected and where future reactions should be made that such situations do not appear in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8278	Thank you. For individual debate, the distinguished representative Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8279	Your Honor, Vice President. What is particularly important to me today is whether we will conclude through this debate that in Croatia, the same rules should apply to all or not will be the case. I believe deeply, unless the same rules apply to everyone in Croatia, Croatia has no chance of moving forward. And the same rules for everything mean equal reporting and equal access to information, equal information on the spending of every budget kuna because public money is a public matter. I want to know by clicking on the mouse how and in what way the money has been allocated to the last 50 kuna in Gospić and Metkovic and Zagreb, and that should be our goal, in the same way. Croatia is too small to be applied to subsidiarity with financial reporting. We are not a federal state, we are a country of 4 million inhabitants where all units of local self-government, all bodies of public authorities should and must have an obligation of identical reporting, which means where public money is spent, that is the money of all citizens of this country and the money must be equally worth both in Babina Greda and in Osijek and in Varazdin and in Petrinja and in Zagreb and in all parts of our beautiful. That's what I put an accent on. When we know that, then we will be able to act in a way that will be able to assess the effectiveness of these measures. That's what I'm going back to. What's crucial is that here today through the Commissioner for Information, it's a lady of course. We have a kind of democracy decoration, a decoration of democratic reporting but, and what we should have, we should through this debate and through that commissioner have a trigger in reporting, on spending public money and on informing the right to access the information of all citizens of this country. That's what needs to become a priority. And that can only mean clear laws, clear violation provisions and a clear obligation for all bodies of public authority to report by the same regulations, and that must not only be the conclusion of this assembly that I will initiate if not now. If it is not indicated through this debate and it is not indicated by the competent authority, I will personally initiate it because I think we must go towards knowing how each kuna must be spent, clicking on the mouse to the truth, and not in a way that is complicated and entangled when I seek certain reports and certain money spent in any unit of local self-government or in commercial societies and according to this state-owned company, 49% of them are not sufficiently harmonised when it comes to regulations. 81% have not been sufficiently consistent with reporting and financial transparency is as high as 37%. So wait a minute? So what is a state-owned company that is someone else's money or the money of the citizens of this country? What are we talking about? I therefore want every kuna to be treated equally in all public authorities over a year in adaptation. That must be our goal because only then will we be able to say that this measure produces a better effect or does not produce an effect at all. The body in the U.S., in the U.S. federal states, New Zealand, Australia, in the United Kingdom, is so-called Auditors implementing the measure, performance auditioning is called this. And that's something that's trying to answer the question if I put 10 kunas into a measure that I am, that's what citizens for those 10 kunas got from that measure. If they got nothing, our goal would be to keep that measure out of the question. But we are prone to money and money from the state budget, from the budget of the units of local self-government to spend on projects that we don't know what they're going to produce or what effect they're going to have. The concrete that nobody uses, the wires that don't lead to anyone and the entities that don't produce anything. Your example is only economic zones in Croatia. Over 350 economic zones, half of them are not operational, and that means they may have more than 5 or 10 employees in the economic zones themselves. My men, we've listed a billion and a half kuna there. We spent 2 billion kunas there for something that doesn't produce anything. It's free to say waste money. Well, the money won't be dropped if you know through simple and practical reporting how each budget kuna is spent. And simple reporting means not that citizens have to look for documents in the forest, which is important, but that what matters is really and accessible. So that's the next step in reporting. They do so today's most advanced in reporting, and they are always and constantly and standard countries with the lowest percentage of corruption. Therefore, if we want to curb corruption and intransparency, then we need to know how each budget kuna is spent. And for this reason, I urge it to be installed as a proposal in order for all public administration bodies to have the same form of financial reporting and not only financial reporting, but also to strengthen the role of citizens through greater resources provided by the public authorities themselves by the model that you propose, that is, what kind of Parliament votes in access to information. That's what needs to be a priority. As a citizen, MPs are the least of the problems. Parliamentarians do not get an answer to a particular question. Some questions, of course, are not answered, and I disagree. All questions should be answered. But MPs in local councils, and in particular citizens in certain smaller communities, often cannot get any answers, and there are no sanctions. So he ate the donkey wolf. Well, he can't eat a donkey wolf, as long as we manage our money. Therefore, I urge that these two things be incorporated into the proposals and thus increase awareness and other things increase transparency. Because increasing transparency means better money orientation, and that ultimately means I don't have to tell you. Digitalization, informing society is something that has raised modern economic giants. Your example is just South Korea. They, thanks to complete digitisation, recorded record growth rates and found a niche in which virtually no one can compete with them today. Seoul is the most digital city in the world with over 265 services on the line, the most digital and we want to be there, and we don't want to be where we have these 7 that spend so we shouldn't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8280	Thank you. We have three replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8281	My colleague Bernardic, I would agree with you in full. At the very beginning, you listed certain cities. Of course he shouldn't be selective here, either. If the Triba is to Metkovic and other cities, then it should be the same rules on access to information, so should be in Rijeka, Split, Dubrovnik. So, regardless of being in HDZ, SDP, the independent that we're in the MOST platform or anyone. Well, you've said very well that transparency is very important. As we are all in previous discussions, there is no development of society without transparency. So if information is hidden and information is selectively given someone's advantage, information is everything. And of course I agree with the need to inform the system. However, all of the previous governments, and we hope to remember it all together, no matter who's on the government, this information has been hidden like crab's children's feet. And the reason, of course, for guessing, for favoring certain groups was for individuals, for legal persons. And of course there should be sanctions that you mention more clearly, more pronounced. So, what if an act was done, and without sanctions, I don't believe there's going to be any results. When we look at fellow Shuker mentioned earlier in health the problem of debt, and when we look at the allocations of incentives, a subsidy who knows how huge money was allocated. Because if it weren't for today, say, five billion kuna in the last term, there's been a distribution of funds to encourage dairy production, and we have 60,000 dairy producers. So it shows that there was some kind of selectivity or that it was not well managed by public money and that this information did not go to the right addresses. Because if they went to the right addresses, producers would develop security by means of their own economy. So that's a direct impact on both the economy and individuals. It's a fundamental right, and I agree with that, and hopefully, we don't, but we have to change things for the better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8282	Replica reply, distinguished representative Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8283	Well, the subsidies could probably be spent a few days here arguing if you want from agriculture. There's no one to say that agriculture is in great shape and that it's reformed. Well, we spent billions of money there. There is no one to say that the shipbuilding has been resolved and that it is a strategic branch now carrying the development of the Republic of Croatia, and we have spent a sea of money. There's no one who'll say rail infrastructure is something that's to our glory and pride, and we threw literally a sea of money there. Therefore, subsidies are a special story. But what they are twice is twice in total intransparency. The first is if you don't publish anything and the second is if you announce the forest so that no one can manage in that forest. I also mentioned these cities for a very simple reason because the fact is where larger cities are simply there are more employees. Perhaps this amount of people who, the number of people who work on these items, are stronger are more fiscally equipped, more challenging to meet these challenges, but it doesn't justify and absorb anyone. So in my opinion, in a country of 4 million inhabitants in Croatia, we're twice as small as the suburbs of Paris, we have to have equal rules for everything, equal rules, because we're not a federal state, we're not a country of 80 million inhabitants, the same rules mean equal rules on financial reporting. All online, all online, all digital and all the same. It's the only way we can go forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8284	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8285	Thank you very much. You said that any kuna of budget and public money should be made publicly available. I absolutely agree with that, but how it will be available when there are laws and internal acts that make it impossible. So, we need to get those barriers out of the way right now. You say you'd like to know how 50 kn is spent somewhere in some place. I would like not to know, but I think all of Croatia should know about any kuna of public money or any other information. Who's hiding behind custody accounts? Isn't that socially necessary information? And he's banned. Under what conditions is the concession for the Zagreb-Macelj highway concluded? Why isn't there a contract in completeness without any information that's been secretly published? And why does the state have to pay the difference because the concessionary has not made the estimated revenues? Under what conditions is the concession for Zagreb Airport concluded? The veil of secrets again. Under what BINA ISTRA? The veil of secrets again. Under what conditions were the drones of the Department of Defense? What happened there? No one knows. What are the salaries in companies? What is the salary paid to HBOR members, members of the Croatian Bank Management Board, members of the HPB Board? Business secret! Can you imagine, a business secret? What are the governor's and vice governor's salaries? Who gave them the pay? We don't know anything. And we deliberately hide and hide what is most important for Croatian society. Under what conditions is the state in charge? What are the conditions and what are the interest rates when they're raised at banks' loans? We don't know anything. And other conditions, not just interest. What's the public debt? We don't know. How much tax is charged by which type of tax and how much per period per year? We don't know that either. We don't know what's important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8286	Answer, Honorable Representative Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8287	Well, what I'm about to say is only two things that I don't care about as a representative, and I'm supposed to care, it's your private life, your personal data, and the other is national security because it's something above all of us. Therefore, only those two categories are of something that we should not have public insight. For all these other things, I think that public insight not only must become a practice it must simply become a commitment and a way of acting in the Republic of Croatia. Without it, we just can't keep my people moving forward. All contracts must be made publicly available. There's no way there's no need to hide anything in this country, to run away from anything, to hide in any way or in any way how public money is spent. When we establish it as a procedure, I think it'll be a lot easier for all of us. I'll just say, you know how big it is, for example. The US budget is around $11,000, it is thousands of billions of dollars, and the body that monitors the effectiveness of the implementation of measures from the federal budget itself, so these are not the budgets of the federal states or the budgets of cities, this body is estimated to protect around $500 billion annually because of its audit role in the justification of the measures. Imagine how much money that is. And imagine that we have this at our country level so I am sure that Croatia would save today, every year only for the efficiency of a billion kuna per year. So, through the state audit body, savings is one billion kuna a year. I guarantee you that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8288	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Davor Penic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8289	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In your discussion, you mentioned economic zones that did not live in the Republic of Croatia, how many of these economic zones were opened and did not get the result of which they were opened. I will remind you that, for example, in my Dubrovnik-Neretva County, 70 and some tourist zones of T1 and T2 have been opened, which have not been revived because they have favored various investors who have not had certain fiscal opportunities to launch them, but have tried to re-purpose the land from the forest to a touristic one. And the Commissioner for Information, that body, has prevented manipulations because it has supervised units of local and regional self-government and as a tool the public service of the Croatian Parliament has disabled these abuses. And that's why I support this body's activities and recommend that it act more proactively and preventively than repressively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8290	Answer, Honorable Representative Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8291	I agree with you colleagues, but eight employees are hardly able to act proactively and even less repressively. And that's what the main problem is, that's what we're discussing today. So if we want the decoration we have it. But if we want real measures, then this is the trigger to just implement the real measures. Speculation, worst thing possible. The dead capital immobilized as capital, so it froze someone else's ability to fertilize money. When you freeze someone else's possibility in the end, they all move weaker, that's just the way it is. So what you have stated, the example you cited from Dubrovnik-Neretva County, is an example that you absolutely should not live through legal regulations somewhere in Croatia but unfortunately resides. And now it's up to us whether we're going to recognize it, say, look at speculation, inaction, and what's said about not investing money where it's supposed to be invested in accordance with certain spatial plans, meaning a certain sanction, it should be in some way both the roles of both the government and parliament. Because without it, we're a small country, look at us is... Very limited. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With us, the possibilities of development are limited, with us the possibility of investment is limited. Therefore, we need to agree whether we will let everyone do what they want or draw the same rules for everyone and then give these better and faster ones to work and hire people because this is ultimately the goal of our efforts for our country, that people work, that they live honestly and quality of their work, that they have higher wages, that they have a better standard of life and that Croatia develops.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8292	The next debate is the distinguished representative Andrija Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8293	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'd like to remind you of the debate I had on January 28th on this subject. I was saying some things back then, we talked about the Commissioner that he also stressed the necessity of transparency, so objectivity and flow of information. If we don't have it then it's not just good. If we don't have timely reports of those, no matter what someone said earlier, who's paying us. They have the right to know the information they need. And finally, they have the right to seek and to know what it is. So here's from this report on page 4, what I mean is what, I would still say defeating the data that is the report on the implementation of the Law for 2015, 76% or 4539 of the 5940 registered bodies of public authority are let's say in that positive thing that they were responding, that they followed the letters of the law. I'm worried about these 24 or 25%. That's not good. So that's not good. And what my colleague Maric was saying earlier about a series of information that wasn't available not to talk about the MiG remonting, not to mention various concessions. Well, we had in the past government meeting of the travel ministers, so when they were wondering where they stayed, how much was the cost of these trips they didn't simply give information until the media forced that part. And here I am using a public opportunity and thanking the media. So a positive example of how work should be done and functioning in order to obtain information. Thanks to the media. But it's not and it's not good and it's not necessarily over the media that way it had to go. But in a certain way, they began to take care of some of the others they had, from where they had, to get into some of their private matters. But here are the people who recognized it, so now they will train as the opposition for four years, so they will see some of these new legal proposals in the way and how they should do it in the future. I'm not particularly going to point out to most of the supervised bodies that the problems you've seen and what measures you've given, I'm worried about that control mechanism, that's the key. So we have to have it. In that sense, I've spoken for the last time, so I'll repeat, I absolutely believe that you should have even greater powers in certain segments. However, you have certain rights, but you have obligations. It's not easy to betray a measure when you don't have a mechanism to control that measure. You know, it's like a kid in kindergarten. Don't get dirty in the sand anymore. Now if you're so influential that the child listened to you, it's okay, but what if it's not? You have no measures to control, therefore, the execution of that solution or that measure. However, regardless of what type of information is concerned by all those bodies that withdraw money, or are financed from the budget of either State or local level, are obliged to provide timely information. These bodies are not only obliged, before a particular information is requested but must be provided on their pages and published. Well, that's normal. Where are we gonna go if we don't have the information we need? So you can't act in any direction. I don't know from the most basic elemental things you need if there's no website or where it should be published where you're going, where you're going to get basic information for something that you need. Accurate communication is a necessary prerequisite for quality mutual communication between state authorities and all others with the community. And that's the most basic thing to be. The law must not be a purpose to itself. It must not be every time just to look at how far this side is, technically well processed, these or those percentages for individual and individual segments have been raised, but just to have one operational dimension in terms of a certain step. One step at a time, one step at a time, just one step at a time. So let's see if there's something going on in some direction that it should be. Everyone calls for transparency, openness, information. Let's remember in the last few years, don't let God show up, those various blockades, the blockages of citizens, someone blocked them for something and they didn't have an explanation why. Imagine when someone's blocking you with something and you don't know why. And you're looking for your rights simply, but unfortunately you can't get them to the extent that you really need them. So, fundamentally, we have no avoidance of information flow, to stick to the principles of transparency of information and ultimately to just give talk in terms of the bodies that need to give information, to just give that information to those who have the right to it. Why? In this way, one trust develops simply. So you today when you ask three basic questions in this House, about politics and I don't know what they're going to get and a very simple conclusion that people don't trust these institutions. Now imagine how it is at lower levels where something is sought and you can't get information. I saw here when you wrote in the report that a certain percentage of those who do not respond within the legal time limit are then not understanding the difference between requirements etc. So, obviously, there's work to be done on that part, from educating those people who do it in order not to be brought into that trap that's common, you'd say in the system of state administration, which is, here's someone who's passed some regulation, there's some article, we need to meet the standard, so come on, and you can do this job in the ministry, and you can do this, you have the conditions. So it's not a good way to work and work. And in the end, these days we also had a chance in the city of Zagreb, we asked for some information, you all know about the problem of reduced amount of nutrition in the kindergartens of the city of Zagreb, and when you ask certain offices for that information, you can't get it. So if we can't get that information and it's about meals for children and on the other hand we're talking about investing infrastructure in kindergartens, schools, etc. And here we are saving on meals, so I ask you why those who make those decisions if those decisions really are. Why don't they give us information when we ask them? Well, I guess someone's bound to tell you in some legal time why. And in the end, you know for yourself when we give money for something, then as users, we want to have and consume certain rights of what we have paid for or for which we have given certain funds. So we have a situation that the most common example in hospitality. We all ask for a more or less account, an account print, and then in another situation you have the closure of some catering facilities because of these or those measures. I'm not going in if it was really justified or not. But it's not good that when we finally ask something that we don't have information and that the system and the law that we have, it's not really transparent. And I'm going to conclude, if 76% of the body just works in that sense, then what's on serious issues?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8294	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Davor Penic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8295	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Mikulić, you stated that we in the SDP on this right-hand side of the pay phone will be practicing in opposition for 4 years. I envy you for such psychicity. That's fantastic. Although the subject is the Commissioner's report, the right to access information is always used to score a little bit. The information, it is true, you have concluded that the right to access information should be enabled for everyone to be able to control, in particular, this High House various processes or to spend public money. However, in order to be effective, control of the rule of law and fight corruption so that your remark has nothing to do with the subject at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8296	Replica reply, distinguished representative Andrija Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8297	Well, I'm glad you recognized our visibility, but it doesn't need to be particularly psychic when you're counting numbers, I'm a technical profession, you're losers, and that's why you're sitting in opposition. And that needs a clear, unequivocal word and I don't know why it bothers you. I'd tell you that, it's facts, it's the facts of a colleague, Your Honor. You must accept it because I know it is difficult for you, I know that after 4 years of being a position it is difficult for you but you have to accept, the Croatian people have decided so and I don't see any problem and I don't point that way at all but when you ask me. Then today you have a respected representative who was your Minister of entrepreneurship and crafts, who refused to give you information or his person who needed to present information when he was in America. So let the Croatian public know that today he is in the Croatian Parliament and did not want to give data, until the media made pressure and then we can talk at the level of information afterwards.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8298	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8299	I didn't mean to answer, but then I heard something that actually shocked me a little bit. You said you didn't get access to things that were embedded in the City of Zagreb budget, and now my question is, how is that possible? So you supported, you are the head of the Zagreb HDZ, you supported the City of Zagreb budget, the budget proposed by the mayor. You're here with the mayor of Zagreb and in the state-level coalition, and now you're saying you can't get the data, so you know what you've even supported? That's what actually amazes me. How could you support something that you couldn't get to, the data? I didn't mean to call, but I have to tell you that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8300	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Andrija Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8301	Dear Representative Bernardic. So it is true that I am the president of the strongest HDZ organisation in the Republic of Croatia and in Zagreb. So it is true that I am the president of the strongest organisation of the Croatian Democratic Community in the Republic of Croatia that is Zagreb. So that's the first thing and it's facts and facts. The second round of the budget of the Croatian Democratic Community in the Assembly of the City of Zagreb with its coalition partners The Croatian Party of Law Ante Starcevic and the "Retired People Together" block supported the city's budget of Zagreb for four amendments to the order of the size of 200 million kuna. Due to the palitative, economic development and 104 million kuna for city councils, for small municipal actions, as well as 30 million kunas for sports in Zagreb. While you were president of the Zagreb Assembly, you had no such ideas and did not have such a draft budget or amendment. So, just to remind you of what was before. And I didn't say that personally I or one of us asked for the right to access information in this sense. So, the Croatian public through the media asked for it, and we realized it. We continue to argue if the city administration's competent office does not provide information that it does not work within those legal frameworks in which it should work, given that this information is requested.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8302	Thank you. The next is the debate of the distinguished representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8303	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I see that Mr Mikulić continued in a visible tone, because you declared your organization the strongest HDZ organization in the country. I'm sure you'll have the biggest shift in the next election. In the last election, the mayoral candidate had 5%. That's what I had to say, so proportionally, it's really going to be the biggest shift. But, Vice President, you could have just as little of your HDZ organization, I think they are stronger than Zagreb. Well, good. As regards the report on the Law on the right to access information, I would like to recall that in the accession negotiations for the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union in those last 10 points remaining in 2013 one of those 10 points was the adoption of the Law on the right to access information. And we were doing a lot of hard work at the time to get that law passed. It's usually a working group that's been a lot of charreds. Among other things, it was interesting at the same table to discuss with representatives of NGOs and representatives of the Office of the National Security Council. These were really quite interesting discussions, and sometimes we from the Ministry of Administration felt like mediators between those two extremes, so I believe that the result that was in the law was something between. No one was overly satisfied, but no one was overly unsatisfactory. What we had as one of the last dilemmas in lawmaking is what will be the institutional form of implementation, i.e. to monitor the implementation of the Law on the right to access information and we decided to establish another body. Therefore, the Commissioner for Information and the right to access information is then removed from the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, thereby wanting to give it in importance but indeed to form a special body to which it would be the first and only task. And of course, after two years of the three years since the law was passed and the decision to make that solution, I think it was clear that it was a good solution even though there was a certain skepticism in the opposition at the time, so in the debate on the law, some of the MPs called it the Kukuriku Commissioner. I believe that Mrs Musa, acting as Commissioner, has indeed disproved all those who had any doubt that she will perform her duty as an independent body appointed by the Croatian Parliament without any discount on any part of the political spectrum. And that's why I'm particularly glad to see by now that the boards are also clubs, that this report will be supported almost unanimously. What the representatives of the state authorities who wanted to implement the law without any obstruction faced is something called abuse of law, or situations where some citizens do not naturally dispute their right to try to use the institutions of the Law on Access to Information by burying public authorities bodies and simply disabling them from normal everyday functioning. At times, these bodies may have earned it not in the extent that they were exposed to, but we have often found ourselves in a situation where we truly see that we are powerless to defend against individuals who have used such things and such legal solutions. And that is why this possibility was introduced in 2015, so that the body, of course, has the ability to control it, that the body decides that a request will be treated as a logical search for information or something. As far as the sanctions themselves are concerned, the first law has been laid quite wide and de facto could really be punished for, among other things, the unnamed information officers. So, if we have 2000 and some bodies of public authorities that have not appointed an information officer, then without legal changes against all 2,000 body and body leaders, a misdemeanor procedure should be initiated because they did not comply with the law. That still didn't happen. Therefore, in order to spare the Commissioner as an independent body of discretionary decision against whom he will initiate a misdemeanour, and against whom he will not and this provision is to move towards 2,000 bodies, it would then be fairer in law, so put to do so after the first notice. So, the yellow card, then the sanctioning. And also what we discussed in the opening part was whether institutions or individuals should be punished. I am at least when it comes to public institutions being punished by individuals and those who have really made a failure and have denied someone the right to access information. During the implementation of the law, there is a latent and good constructive conflict between the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data and the Commissioner for Information, and that is the way it should be. Therefore, the Agency is there to worry that this transparency does not reveal too much personal data that should not be disclosed, so whose disclosure would not have the very purpose of exercising the right to access information, but on the other hand very often also protection of personal data or secrecy, business secret, etc. It benefits some institutions not to give what they should. And I'm glad that the High Administrative Court is in this sense so far that the Commissioner in front of the High Court stands much better than the bodies of the public authority. I think you've got some more disputes. Finally, it is the High Administrative Court that makes the final decision on this matter in any case, and until then, it is the right of the body not to publish the information until it is given a final court ruling. What should be done these years next is that we are becoming more aware of citizens' awareness that the right to access information is their constitutional right and not to give up their demand for all that they are interested in and as far as the work of the public authority is concerned, that they do not withdraw from the leaders who sort of bypass the law. But it is also, since it is the leaders of a public authority body appointed by someone, in general either by the government or by local self-government or by Parliament, that both poor work or consciously avoiding the obligation of the Law to access information when it becomes more common by some body leader that his boss then a little more presses to do so or indeed to be removed because he often refuses to act under the Law on the right to access to information by extracting some of the formal things that we mentioned today. It would be a good practice of political parties and I believe that should be done in this direction. Once, on behalf of the government, I had to look for formulas to reject the amendment of the MPs in the past calling for an increase in funds in the Office of the Commissioner for Information. I've done it. I've done it. I've done it. However, I believe that this year and last year, respectively, there is a slightly increased budget and I believe that there will be opportunities for when this colossal progress is made with this government that there will be opportunities to increase the budget further and allow for the smooth work of the Commissioner for Information and in the next term. So here's what I'm saying is that I think the report was quality, that the Commissioner's work last year was good. I also thank her for her cooperation in 2015 and I support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8304	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Davor Penic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8305	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You said in the introduction that it was going to be an institutional form of supervision, so you decided on the Commissioner for the right to access information. After this debate in this House, it is evident that in 2015 this body justified expectations because it punished only 7 entities and only locally. And it's been twice as many educations as it was in the previous year. Strengthening the right to access information has become a goal, not a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8306	Second replica, the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8307	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bauk you inspired me for this replica of this historic review of the events concerning the adoption of the Commissioner's Law and the right to access information although your display is not if not fully accurate some important details you failed to emphasize. I fall among those who have claimed that and when this law was passed then in the opposition, although I do not know what kind of connection it has to the accession of the EU in 2013, we have done all the accession criteria and achieved far before. There was a dispute whether this job should be done in a special institution like we have today or within the framework of existing institutions? And then we said the most important thing is that it's better to do some work for that qualified institution than to create new ones that we won't be able to financially help do our job properly. You were now talking about what you refused as amendments, and this year we had a discussion on the board again, that neither for the purposes of the professional service for which additional funds were requested was hearing any financial help from the office so that it works the way we all expect it to. And only one note for the future, except for the flood of the request for access to information to this law is missing and one fence that must in some way establish or prove the public interest of those who seek access to information so that the bodies that provide information have an adequate basis for providing information. Time doesn't allow me to explain more in detail what that means.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8308	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of the Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8309	Thank you. As far as this first part is concerned, I was reminded there were 10 points in October 2012 that we still had to meet to join the EU. I'll read it. So, resolving border police issues, transposing documents from legal gain, adopting a new legislative framework that will enable the implementation of judicial decisions, reducing the backlog in executive cases, then sublegal acts of the Police Act, selecting the Committee for Conflict of Interest and adopting the Law on the right to access information. So in October 2012 and the law was passed in February and we had some more, it was a regular job that the Government started by 2011 and we ended up, all right. As far as the law itself was concerned, there was indeed a dilemma, we then proposed the appointment of a special institution, I think that this is a better solution than being within the AZOP, and with AZOP we had another problem last year. And as for the improvement of the law, I really agree with you in one part, and in the other part, we can discuss how to improve this law. This is not a question of ideology that we need to discuss it too much right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8310	Thank you. And last debate, distinguished representative Marijan Kustic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8311	Dear Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. We see from this report from the Commissioner that 23.59% of the public authorities did not submit a report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information, making it clear that public authorities are breaking the law. Although the trend is visible compared to 2014 when the number was 40%. Also, a fifth or 1300 bodies have not yet been appointed information officers. When it comes to the appointment of information officers there is a problem of education mainly with their primary job doing this job... Of the number of complaints received 624, 526 cases were resolved, which is 84.29%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this connection, it is apparent that the Commissioner's Office has maintained efficiency in resolving the case. However, it is noted that due to lack of administrative capacity, lack of staff inspectors and employees for monitoring and promotion activities, as well as the conduct of public authorities or delay in handling, it was not possible to resolve all cases. In this connection, there is room for strengthening administrative capacity to work in appeal procedures, although during 2015, the capacity of the office has been significantly strengthened. The number of employees has been increased from 4 to 8 with two persons from professional training and one from the contract of action. Two-thirds of complaints referred to cases of silence of the administration, i.e. ignoring and requiring citizens to access information, which is particularly worrying. So this ratio is equal to all years, approximately the same case that the public authorities within 15 days or possibly an extended period of 30 days when they can do so do not solve that requirement in fact fully deafens what citizens are asking them to do. So this is a problem not only of this law but also of a broader problem to be adequately respected. In this way, public authorities are jeopardising the exercise of the fundamental right of citizens and also do not allow citizens to exercise their other rights, i.e. exercise their control, a role in relation to public authorities. As for the type of body of 580 complaints... In 2015, for the purpose of the request for access to information, the largest number concerned requests addressed to local self-government units, the regional (regional) self-government, a total of 160. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also clear from the resolved complaints, therefore, from those situations which have been resolved before the Commissioner or possibly still before the High Court of Justice that public authorities reject or reject requests for access to information most often on the law of unfounded reasons, i.e. the ratio of legal and illegal decisions of the public authorities in 2015 is 1:1,72 which is a deterioration compared to 2014 when that ratio was 10:12. As is the most critical element of law enforcement, there is a markedly weak implementation of consultation with the interested public, particularly in local and regional (regional) self-government units. The report states that although the most cumulative consultation was carried out by local and regional self-government units 604 in the light of their numbers, it turns out that they carried out one consultation a year indicating adequate implementation of this legal obligation. The Commissioner also points out that the situation regarding the transparency and openness of the public authority is gradually improving and that the bodies have become aware of their obligations and skills in law enforcement. However, more significant deviations from a satisfactory level of transparency and openness have been seen mostly in the local and regional self-government units again. Finally, it is necessary to put in full office function even though improvements are visible and to demonstrate the full transparency that is still insufficient under this report in order for the Information Access Law to be fully implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8312	Thank you very much. And here is the final honorary Mrs Anamarie Musa, the Commissioner for Information.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8313	I thank the honourable MPs and MPs for the debate that was long and interesting this time, and I have taken into account all your remarks regarding the report itself, which is extensive but simply too much area and there is too much information that we have that we want to share with the public and above all the Parliament. Since there are a lot of remarks, I'm just going to briefly mention a few things that I think are crucial. First, as regards the finance of the Commissioner for Information mentioned several times, it was said, so the 2015 budget increased 20%, and now the 2016 budget is also increased, as well as 20%. So I hope, perhaps not quite to the insurmountable trend that will follow but in due course that the capacity will then be fully secured. As far as the law that has been mentioned repeatedly is concerned, the Croatian law on the right to access information is one of the best laws in the world in its quality, scope and instruments it has to achieve access to information and transparency by the authorities. It's not just my grade. It is also an assessment of international institutions, fellow commissioners and other countries in which we are already providing support. These are countries in the neighbourhood of the region whatever you want us to call them in which we actively through projects help them build their institutions. So the law itself is quality, fully in line with the standards and the reason is that it was created during all these 13 years from 1.2003 until the changes in 2011 so the new law from 2013, 2015, so it did not fall from the sky in 2013 but was actually the result of the development and the result of the cooperation of civil society, the academic community, the user of the right to access to information and public authorities. So on the other hand, I think it's important to point out that the law, along with some minimum corrections, doesn't really need to be touched. In particular, I must comment on the observation of the honourable representative of the Mlakar, so the right to access is in itself a public interest incorporated into the Constitution so that on that side the determination of public interest is excluded in each case. It is believed that everyone as a citizen has the right to know and get information and therefore the situation is simply excluded. The main problem is actually in implementation, so the framework and institutional one is set but in the implementation of the stunt, however, simply to implement the law it is necessary that we all participate in it. Here's what I'm going to say about the example that's been paid on HRT. In this distinguished House, there was a discussion on Croatia's salaries for three weeks without anyone remembering inviting the commissioner to come forward. We answered for ourselves, sent a memo to the Assembly and our position on Croatia's salaries after which this problem was solved and the Assembly called on HRT and we came to HRT and told us what to publish, so basically without someone encouraging and looking for information or an example that respected MP Mikulić presented with the travel of the minister last year, there was also a case in which the media sought and the commissioner ordered that information be given. So, no matter how much we want to, we can't react on our own, because we have enough action on the citizens' demands and without engagements and institutions and the media and the citizens themselves, we simply can't make more moves in this work. There have also been several questions raised about parliamentary issues, I agree, and that is the problem, and we have recommended that the government develop a model of constitutional provisions because the situation in relation to obtaining information on local units is even worse for the council members and citizens themselves. And at the end of the third, I'd be in a hurry to point out, it's a matter of prevention and sanctions that kept coming up there. So our basic instrument was prevention, education, public awareness development, etc. The biggest problem and these 76% of reports delivered shows that the biggest problem in those who do not work under the law is that they do not know at all that the law exists because it is one of 300 other laws that they must implement in a local unit where there are two employees or in a fire department where there are none of the employees or in a small tourist community that only has a president of the tourist community who has to implement 300 other regulations. So the key problem is to actually reach out to us all and expose to everyone how, which are their obligations, what they need to do but what our experience is, in general, that we are ordering the best results. That's why we used the sanctions minimally because it wasn't our basic weapon if we're going in those terms and when we used it I say the procedure is more than difficult and demanding and in terms of the people, so you have to go to the Dubrovnik Criminal Court, spend time and money and someone tells you we'll reject it because you don't have the signature of the person you're up against. So, it's not only the problem of this law now, it's also the problem of the Criminal Law, and we've already been manifested in the relevant institutions. As far as sanctions are concerned, I'm just going to say actually what we thought was crucial and so it was according to the past law that only the public authority's body is being punished because it's not the point in the total mass of funds and where they're being allocated, but the point is that every leader is aware that he's going to be left without money for something else if he's going to have to pay them as a penalty for disobeying the law. That's why, in line with our role in public information, we have now launched more, more on line education, and this will be our biggest procedure in the next period, to educate all over the territory, you here in the reports have a map, we have tried to cover all units but go to Dubrovnik for two employees, do education, possibly carry out inspection supervision costs about 5, 6 thousand kuna. We simply don't have that kind of money to cover everything physically, so not only will we work through that line of platforms to reach all officials and then citizens, we need help and other institutions both in situations like I mentioned in HRT, so for us it is crucial to the roles of civil society, not just associations, but the association of local units. So, we are working intensively with the Croatian community of counties and with the Association of Cities and with the Association of Municipalities exactly on the implementation of certain activities so that they work equally actively towards their members and encourage them to comply with the law and as far as awareness of the citizens themselves is concerned, we also need local associations that in their communities can alarm their citizens to use this law, to ask, to ask, to engage in decision-making processes. So we can't do it alone, and for that, it's very necessary that everyone participates in it. That is why in the next period we intend to place even more emphasis on encouraging and association to work on awareness, on our education and on a whole series of other instruments that would bring this law and opportunities closer to all of it. We are just making a reviewer of all decisions, we are also making a whole series of instructions, some of them are finished, one of them is just public procurements that have been mentioned here several times because in the proceedings before the Commissioner there are very often complaints about the denial of information about who is employed in the public institution, what is his salary and such things. So, we're going to go through one direction and try to solve it, and then we're going to check the situation on the ground. Here's so much from me. I appreciate it. I can see there's a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8314	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Davorin's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8315	I'm sorry, it may not be polite at the end, but for clarification, since you looked back on what I was saying. It is unequivocally the right of the public to have access to information on a whole series of entities or holders or persons acting in public responsibilities. And I think it's normal in every civilized country. At the same time, it is also the obligation of these bodies to provide information, to instruct the public in what is of interest to the public. I don't have a problem with that either. All those involved in public duties likely knew or considered it when they competed in those duties. However, what I am against, and clearly not popular, cannot be an unlimited right. In a particular case, I may be writing humoress in some week or month, addressing the body of the state government, not telling you that there are such examples and that I am looking for insight into the property cards of 150 people by the authority of the listed or not listed. A specific case exists and not once. As one who requires insight, I would at least have to prove in some way that there really is a public interest in publishing such data, not that it is my own extraordinary idea to satisfy some of my business, political or any of the third reasons. That's why I intervened. You must in some way protect the bodies that they do not always and in any case supply to anyone information that would not be required to deliver.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8316	Here's the answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8317	Thank you. Yeah, obviously we didn't get along well. This is a case where there is a public interest to be assessed. I thought you were speaking in general, so I had to react. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8318	Thank you very much. I'm closing this debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Here we go at 15.00 hours, the vote and the addition of the agenda. Thank you. It's a 13,35 o'clock meeting.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8319	Next Report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2015. Report submitted by the Commissioner for Information. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2015. Please vote. Who's in? The vote is over. 101 votes for, none against, 1 abstention. ... I'm sorry, it's been squeezed wrong. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay. So 101 votes for, 1 abstention and none against. ... I made it very clear. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The vote is over and I find that most votes have reached a conclusion. Here you go, dear representative Beus Richembergh. We now turn the honourable MPs and MPs to the vote. First report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, Ms Margaret Mađeric, to submit a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8321	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable MPs and MPs. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament at the 9th session held on 15 April 2016 discussed the request of the attorney, private prosecutor Rajko Ostojić of Zagreb for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Darko Milinović for the offence of the libel provided for in Article 149.st.2 of the Penal Code. The Commission shall be responsible for the implementation of this Regulation and shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament to make the next decision. During the term of the term of office, authorisation for the initiation and conduct of criminal proceedings against Darko Milinović under the private suit of Prosecutor Rajko Ostojic of Zagreb for the criminal offence of the libel referred to in Article 149.st.2 of the Penal Code in the case before the Municipal Court of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8322	I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm opening a debate on the report. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Who's in favour of that decision, please? Please score. 97 for, 2 abstentions and 2 against. I therefore find that most votes have been decided by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Now would be the turn of the Mandate-Immunity Commission report. I ask the President of the Committee of Mrs Margaret Mađeric to submit the report. We will vote on every decision separately, individually.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8324	Thank you, Mr. President, distinguished MPs and MPs. The mandate-immunity commission at the 10th session held on 3 June 2016 unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the next Decision on the standstill of Representative Josip Lek. Drazen Pross, deputy deputy representative's representative's office, is beginning to act in accordance with Article 9(2). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament on 3 June 2016.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8325	Please, we should vote on this in person. Please, who's in favour of this proposal. Before that, I'm opening a debate of course. Is anyone there? There's no one here. I'm closing the debate. Can we please vote on who's in favour of this proposal? Please result. 133 for, not one against, not one abstention. I find that we unanimously accepted the Commission's proposal. Please next.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8326	Council Decision (CFSP) 2015/35 is hereby amended as follows: Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament and Article 9(2) and 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament the next decision to hold MP Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic's term of office. In accordance with Article 9(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Member States and the Member States of the European Parliament and of the Council shall ensure that the second subparagraph of Article 9(2) of this Regulation is complied with. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament begin to act on 3 June 2016.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8327	Please, let's vote on this proposal. Who's in? 125 for, 1 abstention and 1 against. I find that the conclusion has been accepted. Third please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8328	Council Decision (CFSP) 2015/35 is hereby amended as follows: Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament and Article 9(2) and 116. [[Please, a little quieter, a little quieter. It's Friday afternoon, but we're done in no time.]] The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall, by a unanimous decision, propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the next Decision on the rest of MP Davorin Mlakar's term of office and the start of the parliamentary duties of Deputy Representative Tomislav Ćorić in accordance with Article 9(2). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament who starts acting on 3 June 2016.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8329	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Please join the vote. Who is in favour of the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm asking for a result. 130 for, not one against, not one abstention. I find that the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission has been unanimously accepted. That's what we're gonna do with today's work. The session continues on Wednesday at 9.30 p.m. with the report on the work of the AZ Mandatory Pension Funds for 2015. Have a nice weekend! The session was interrupted in 15.20 hours. I would now like to request a report from the mandated immunity commission. I ask the President of the Executive Immunity Commission to submit a report to Mrs Margaret Mađeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8331	Honorable MPs and MPs. The mandated immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament held at the 11th session on 17 June 2016 discussed the written request of MP Tomislav Karamark on the re-behaving of the parliamentary post. The Commission found unanimously that the suspension of the parliamentary term of office began on 22 January 2016 because of the incompatibility of the duties set out in Article 9 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament and that on the same day his deputy started acting as a representative in the Croatian Parliament. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament and Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament proposes the adoption of the following decision to the Croatian Parliament: "On 25 June 2016, the term of office of MP Tomislav Karamark ceases. The deputy representative, Ante Zupan, ceased to act as deputy deputy representative on 25 June 2016.’.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-21-0.u8332	Thank you very much. I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm opening a debate on this. No one's answering. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a Decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission as spoken. Please, who's up for it? I'm asking for a result. 114 for, 1 abstention and 9 against. I find that most votes have been decided as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I suggest we get started. Here comes my esteemed colleague Veljko Kajtazi. Here you go.
