ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u6928	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, I would like to ask for a five-minute break, if possible 10 for the unkind events that took place these seven days back in the Kozari roads, Kozari Boka.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u6929	Okay. Business at least I can give you 10 minutes. So we'll meet at 9.45, then we'll meet again. Thank you. It's 9:35 p.m. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] We've got a little bit of technical problems, so the traffic lights won't show us anything, but here's what's going to be monitored and timed, etc. Well, here, I'd like to ask then the honourable representative of Veljko Kajtazi to take his word for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u6931	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Given the current situation and concerns of the Roma community and the events that occurred in Zagreb's Kozari roads, I felt the need to address all of you and the public, especially the Roma community that I represent. The Roma community felt threatened after these events, especially Roma in the Kozari roads, which only originally organised to protect their homes from possible re-attacks. Considering that this is clearly about the ultimate mistrust that institutions can do their job and ultimately manifest a sense of danger and uncertainty. As a representative of the Roma community in the Croatian Parliament, I decided to take this opportunity to send several messages, especially one that comes down to condemning any kind of violence against and within the Roma community. I would like to point out that these two cases are still unclear and we cannot say with certainty that they were racially motivated or targeted towards the Roma community. We also cannot say that this was not the case because on the other hand it is certain that it is an incident in which the two Roma families lost a lot and could have been more than that, including their lives and the lives of their children. Namely, in the first incident that took place on April 18th, an explosive device was thrown into the courtyard of a house containing the Roma Association and kindergarten. Shortly after that, 21 April near this location burned down the house of a many member Roma family in a likely arson. These two events echoed in the Roma community just like a bomb dropped on April 18th. We must remember that these are not the first such events and that the Roma are collectively traumatized, that these measures, that their only organization has taken place to protect their homes. As soon as I heard about the events, I visited the village and talked to locals and affected families. I contacted the Ministry of the Interior in parallel and spoke to Minister Orepic personally. I asked him for permanent supervision of this village and enhanced supervision of other Roma settlements and asked him to do everything to make the perpetrators found and punished. I suggest a greater presence of police in Roma settlements and when these events pass. To date, the MUP has unfortunately not been answered and I fear that the perpetrators will go unpunished once more, as is often with cases where the Roma community is damaged. In yesterday's conversation with Deputy Minister Davor Blazevic, I am convinced that the ministry is doing everything in their power to find the perpetrators. I'm taking this opportunity to the ministry but I'm also calling on all other institutions to do what they really do, do everything possible to solve this incident. The Roma national minority is particularly sensitive to such incidents and those within the community experience much more discomfort and fear than when someone who is a member of the majority people is damaged. When one Roma suffers, all Roma feel compassion and on the other hand do not feel solidarity by other citizens. And this isn't the first case. Take, for example, the opposition to the Roma family last month in the French Republic Square in Zagreb, an incident such as these is not good for the international reputation of the Republic of Croatia because many ambassadors and foreign journalists have asked me about these events. What worries me is that the Republic of Croatia does not become part of a group of Eastern European states where attacks on Roma have been frequented. It's unacceptable for anyone to endanger someone else's life or to throw hand grenades at kindergartens like it's a state of war. Roma have been in these areas for nearly 700 years and are not allowed to feel threatened in 2016 in the EU and organise themselves on their own initiative to defend their homes. Unlike other national minorities, Roma do not have a home state and unless they have confidence in the institutions of the countries in which they live, we can hardly talk about the progress and solution of their problems. On that trail, I hope that we will soon see more detailed government plans to take care of minority communities because, as I have pointed out more than once in the state budget, it is not enough to put a minority item in place and thus assume that we have set out to solve the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u6932	Thank you very much. Now we're going to move on to the first point. It is - Report on the business of free zones in the Republic of Croatia in 2014. The report shall be submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 25. The Free Zone Act. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Economy whose report you received at the session. Does the applicant's representative want to further explain the report? Yeah. Dear Deputy Minister of Entrepreneurship and craft Mario Turalija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8334	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. During this presentation of the 2014 Free Zones Report, I would just like to remind you that this is the third-largest report on the business of free zones in the Republic of Croatia presented in this House. After the 2011 report, 2012 and 2013 you have a report for 2014. By acting in accordance with the applicable regulations and supporting transparency in the business of free zones, we are now presenting a report on the business of free zones in the Republic of Croatia in 2014. After two key events that were significant for the free zones in 2013, which was the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the EU since 1 July 2013, and amending the legislative framework through amendments and additions to the Free Zones Act in December 2013. In 2014, the legislative framework for the business of free zones was further improved through the adoption of a concession fee Regulation for free zones entered into force in February 2014. Before we say more about this Regulation, let us only briefly remind ourselves of amendments to the legislative framework through amendments and additions to the Free Zones Act that entered into force on 19 December 2013. These amendments and additions align the free zones system in the Republic of Croatia with the conditions of operation on the EU common market, which applies to customs and tax treatments, and allow for the extension of existing concessions for free zones in the Republic of Croatia, but also for the waiver of those same concessions where this economic interest requires that the applicable law was not possible until then, and the improvement of the relationship between the provider and the beneficiary of the free zone concession with regard to the regulation of mutual obligations. In particular, we stress that the right to use previously obtained tax reliefs which remain in force until use, i.e. by the end of 2016. The amendments and amendments to the laws are also in line with the competences and names of the authorities of the state administration in accordance with the applicable rules in order to eliminate the administrative difficulties arising from the non-compliance of the terms of the work in the existing legislative framework. The coordination facilitates the business of beneficiaries of concessions or concessionaires and users of free zones, but is in the interest of potential investors in particular from third countries interested in business in free zones. The amendments and amendments to the laws are detailed deadlines for the delivery of documents, and the way and time limits for payment of concessions for free zones, and precisely for the purpose of drawing up these and similar reports, and other bases relevant for the business of free zones users of free zones, have become mandatory to supply data to concession users. In this regard, we note that all collected data on the business of users of free zones are considered to be a business secret. Further amendments and addition of the law provide for a regulation instrument in the form of a new Regulation on how to pay a concession fee for free zones entered into force in February 2014. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. In addition to the regulation on how to pay concession fees, the Regulation also implemented the obligation imposed by the concession law, i.e. to provide a basis for the procurement of insurance instruments for the regular payment of fees for that same concession. The impact of Croatia's EU membership on free zones continued in 2014 primarily through the impact on those users of free zones operating on the EU's internal market, or other Member States. Namely, the beneficiaries of concessions, free zone concessionaries and in 2014 point out the changed operating conditions of users of free zones due to EU membership and, primarily, to the treatment of goods whose destination is the EU internal market, whose goods have a final EU destination and which are subject to value added tax and which are treated as goods intended for the domestic market. As of 1 July 2013, the conditions of business in part of customs procedures that consumers are obliged to implement in areas under concessions for free zones have changed as part of the undertaking makes it difficult and even collects business. An additional burdensome circumstance is the payment of value added tax for all goods leaving the zone, whose destination is not third countries, or ultimately the weaker business results, has been affected by the economic crisis itself through which the users of the zone themselves, but also by their business partners. Structured as previous Free Zone Reports in 2011, 12 and 13 years this report contains a presentation of the legislative framework for the establishment and operation of free zones in the Republic of Croatia, and their state of free zones, i.e. common and aggregated data at the level of all free zones in the Republic of Croatia, as well as for each zone separately. Your data are comparable compared to 2013 i.e. the current situation in 2014 at the time. The ministry of entrepreneurship and crafts as the competent ministry of free zones has collected data on the business of free zones with the following dynamics. Data on business in 2014 provided by users of concessions for free zones were received by June 2015 and verified data from the Ministry of Finance, Tax administrations on tax relief used in 2014 were received at the end of October 2015. After processing the data itself at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts, the report was submitted to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia now submits a report on the business of free zones in the Republic of Croatia in 2014. In the number of free zones and their area in 2014 there were minor changes compared to the previous year 2013. By acting in the economic interest of the users of the free zone, Bjelovar, the beneficiary of the free zone concession at the end of 2013 submitted a request for the abolition of the free zone status and the only way to act on request was to end in March 2014 when, after obtaining a positive opinion from the government of the Republic of Croatia on the termination of the concession for the establishment of the free zone of Bjelovar and this free zone ended on 31 March 2014. The second change that took place regarding the area of free zones and it refers to the reduction of the area under the concession for the free zone in the free zone "Đuro Đaković" Slavonski Brod d.o.o. a the beneficiary of the concession is either a concessionary for the free zone "Djuro Đaković" also applied in 2013 for the termination of part of the concession and the exit of part of the users from the free zone, or for the removal of the concession in part and the free zone in which these users operated. The submission of applications and in this case is conditional on the economic interest of users of the free zone. After a positive opinion was collected, the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided in March 2014 to amend the Decision on the granting of a concession for the establishment of the free zone "Djuro Đaković" Slavonski Brod d.o.o. After the entry into force of this decision, one user continued to operate in the free zone. Therefore, the beginning of this reporting period in the Republic of Croatia had a total of 14 free zones, of which 10 land-free zones and 4 port-free zones are situated on the maritime good. At the end of 2014, 13 free zones, i.e. Nine land and four harbors. So that bellover closed down, and from that 14, it reduced to 13 free zones. When we sum up the very results of the business in the free zones mentioned in the report, we see that the same users of the free zones were mostly small and medium-sized entrepreneurs with some arithmetical environment i.e. an average of 56 employees. The share of exports in the total income of free zone users was 77% high, with an increase of 5.5% compared to 2013. The number of users of free zones was reduced by 35% or 143 users in 2014 compared to 2013 and in 2013 the number was 221. There's been a reduction for two reasons. One reason is the administrative treatment of the concessionaries themselves, or the arrangement of the contract with the users of the free zones, and another reason is the reduction of the area of the free zone in the free zone "Đuro Đaković" Slavonski Brod. This reduction in the area of the free zone and the number of users in Slavonski Brod resulted in a slight reduction in the number of persons employed in free zones, which is 3% lower than in 2013. When we compare that statistics, we see that these concessionaries who came out of these free zones are left at the same level as the previous year in 2013. In 2014, 7827 workers were employed in free zones, and in 2013 about 8,000 workers. The main financial indicators of users of free zones in 2014 are total income. some consolidated revenue that amounted to more than 5 billion kuna, which is 8.5% more than in 2013 when it amounted to 4.8 billion kuna or somewhere around 410 million kuna. The profits amounted to 380% more than in 2013 and are moving at 150 million kuna levels, i.e. 148.24 million kuna, respectively. In 2013, the amount was 31 million, namely 30.9 million kuna. A significant growth in profits is largely due to the overall positive business of certain zones whose users achieved positive performance in 2014 compared to 2013. And the reason for growth is the release of users of free zones who had negative business results from free zone regimes, and hence from data in the business of all these free zones. With this positive data in the business of free zones, we would like to point out that free zones are an instrument of the economic policy of the Republic of Croatia, which has so far played a significant role for the economy with a special impact on equal regional development, an increase in investment employment exports and as such is recognised in other EU Member States. The Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Parliamentary MPs and parliamentary representatives, I hereby conclude my presentation and the 2014 Report on Free Zones Management in the Republic of Croatia. You have received much more extensive materials through the Croatian Assembly structures and I am at your disposal if you have any questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8335	Thank you. The first club is registered by HDZ, the esteemed representative Leon Žulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8336	Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Parliamentary MPs and MPs. We have a report on the business of free zones in 2014. As the Deputy Minister of Trade and Entrepreneurship pointed out, this is a report to be followed in 2011, 2012 and 2014 as compared to 2013. The business of our entrepreneurs located in our free zones is detailed. Their financial indicators are also present in the report. And what we can certainly praise is that despite the changed circumstances in business when we talk about customs or tax benefits for users of our free zones that we have growth and development when we talk about the business of our entrepreneurs, the shown business result, the gain of our entrepreneurs, when we look at the sum. Also, investments amounting to more than 300 million kuna in the development of their business processes for both port and land zones. A detailed picture of 13, i.e. at one point 14 free zones, shows one significant economic entity located in the Varazdin free zone where its business is very much bounced, which has extended its business to Slavonski Brod as well. And when we talk about our free zones, there must be a challenge ahead of us how we will create in a period that follows the overall conditions for the development of our business entities not only in the free zones but also in all existing business areas and in the overall area of the Republic of Croatia. We, when we compare ourselves to free zones in our environment, see that these are countries that have not yet joined the EU, which certainly have their own positive sides and when they compete in the market for those foreign investors who choose where they will be doing business tomorrow, we see that they are different and labour costs, and the country's approach is different when we talk about how they subsidise, attract, traditions. When we talk about Serbia or Macedonia, we also see marketing activities and today we are talking about free zones in the Republic of Croatia where we still have the same privileges for free areas of port and for land we have lost these possible benefits when we talk about performing towards EU countries. When we talk about port free zones, they also do not have the same tax advantages and customs privileges as we have entered the EU, but their business is more targeted by indicators towards countries outside the EU. My thinking is also on behalf of the club that we need to see what these opportunities are to highlight the position of our free zones, the question of our educational infrastructure, the question of our traffic position. Because we see investors coming from different countries, to listen to what opportunities they are, can we position ourselves on international corridors when we talk about corridor 5B, 5C, corridor 10, when we talk about our capacity to build ports in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and from the port of Rijeka, Zadar, Ploče, where we see and now significant investments when we talk about the position of the port of Ploče. We will also have to make one coherent overall policy when we talk about education infrastructure, one working contingent, analyze why some entrepreneurs are located in a particular space with more significant investments, it is certain that there is a qualified labour force for each dam in the first place, and there are indicators as such good and other countries' results show the same that these are experiences that can be integrated in our case. We expect a working meeting between interested stakeholders that regulate the legal framework, means the resolution ministries, representatives of all our free zones to create tomorrow one package of measures when we are talking about the development of our free zones and what we can do in the next period. We see that certain free zones are highly potential in what is available with the total building land, under the Investment Encouragement Act, regulatory measures when we talk about the EU and our entrepreneurs at our disposal. The fund industry is also just for small and medium-sized enterprises because we see from the very results of the business so far that this is an average of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs operating in the area of our free zones. Looking at the world in the area of all business zones, i.e. free zones, 42 million employees, of which 30 million in China, 2 million in Mexico, 700 thousand in the Middle East, Macedonia is going hard forward, the free zone of Piroth is the most prospective free zone in the Republic of Serbia in Southeast Europe. My thinking is that we need to see where we are in that field, which we can still do to point out our strengths in a qualified workforce, in products with higher added value because we need to give an answer to the very markets where the lower labour price is just when we talk about the Republic of Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina or the Republic of Macedonia. The HDZ will support this report for 2014 and will expect the results of a working meeting between stakeholders who are very interested in us and the public when we talk about the development of a business environment for both free zones and other parts of the area where business processes will develop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8337	Thank you. The next debate is the distinguished representative Miroslav Simic of the Most Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8338	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, deputy deputy deputy minister. Here's what we can say is that we're familiar with a report that I think we can be satisfied with which Most Independent Lists will support our club. Indeed, free zones after Croatia's entry into the EU are in one specific position, something more difficult and complicated than they have ever been before, and I think these results that we could hear have been the result of the really hard work of all those who are on the one hand concessionaries and those who themselves are users of free zones services. As we could hear in 2014 of the 16 concessions awarded 14 were active until the end of March when the free zone of Bjelovar was shut down and one of the free zones continued to work on a slightly smaller scale. However, we can still say that there are 143 legal entities in the free zones that employ more than 7,800 workers and of course that these data must be important to the executive authority and to us as legislators. According to income data and profits that we could see in the report itself, we can also say that we should be satisfied. Revenues also increased land zones and free zones in the Port area. It is also evident that the revenues in 2014 also increased those units which charge concession fees. I observe at the level of the average in the free zones, they mainly did as the deputy minister told us small to medium-sized entrepreneurs with an average of 56 employees, which is on average as many as 20 employees compared to last year in 2013. In MOST, we believe that in the light of the crisis and the present moment in which the Republic of Croatia is located and the physical position of the Republic of Croatia's Free Zones Institute has a special importance. Free zone managers have continued operational practice in working with users operating within the area. Free zones are also internationally recognised brand and standard that is recognized as a model with a clearly different management, use, security, resolved property legal relations and conduct, as a rule. I would point out Croatian free zones, as well as as as an example of quality business and an active contribution to promoting Croatia's investment economic policy. In the world of the current economic situation, I believe that we can highlight the free zones as areas of good business practice that have largely maintained the level of business compared to the pre-resession period and the areas in which business takes place with at least bureaucratic and other administrative barriers. It is these reasons that I think we are obliged to do everything possible to facilitate the work and development of free zones in the Republic of Croatia. I am using the opportunity to discuss this report to encourage and debate what we can specifically do for free zones to continue regardless of all these new difficult circumstances continue to work successfully. The Law on Free Zones, which has been lex specialis since 90 years over the years, is literally broken down into customs, tax legislation and anything else that regulates the business of entrepreneurs regardless of where the entrepreneur is located, in or outside the zone. There is also the problem of different ministries that are in charge except, therefore, the Ministry of Entrepreneurship is there, given these regulations that I just cited earlier, the Ministry of Finance, while, unlike Croatia, for example. in the Czech Republic, the entire business zone is under the Ministry of Finance. I think it's necessary to link the free zone infrastructure to the corporate infrastructure law. It is necessary to review the possibility of introducing and the following measures, abolishing the obligation to conduct separate accounts for business transactions with Member States, maximum harmonisation of storage operations and to define the minimum scope of the mandatory accounting records for the operation of the zone. Treat the building zone in a special way and please her. To enable non-residents to operate in a free zone based on a concessionary contract, to provide incentive measures to invest concessionaires in infrastructure, and to build, edit and equip business spaces. Simplify the procedure of reducing or increasing the concentrated area, regulate and ensure the continued business of the users of the zone in case of disturbances in the work of concessionaries, we mean bankruptcy and the like. Switch from paper exchange to electronic data exchange and establish and improve communication of the IT system of customs and users. As far as port free zones are concerned, I believe that the specificities which are characteristic of the activities of the maritime port of storage of containers should be taken into account, thus enabling faster flow of goods and greater competitiveness of the traffic route, rather than applying the same guidance to any form of activity of users in the free zones. Extending the seabed along the operational coast is one of the challenges that is safe for us. But in conclusion, as I said at the outset, I think that we can be with the effort both users and concessionaries are making with the result they gave us here for 2014 and I congratulate them on this and here on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists I can say that we will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8339	Thank you. The next debate is a respected representative of Anka Mrak-Taritas, on behalf of the HNS Club, a liberal Democrats.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8340	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. In front of us, the 2014 Free Zones Report is about a very correct document, a document that is very professional and well-designed and the Club of HNS Representatives Liberal Democrats will support this report. However, when we have a report like this in front of us and we all agree that users, or concessionaries, are in free zones doing a good job. I would like to read them some other things and other topics. It is pointed out that the free zones which are formed must be and are on land which is infrastructureally or communally equipped land, which is fenced by land, which is 24 hours under a specific system of use or monitoring. Free zones are said to be formed or formed in the mainland part of Croatia, at the port and especially in Vukovar. However, we can really read a number of other things from this account. When it comes to regional development, the uniform regional development of Croatia I love graphics and graphics often tells you more than 1000 words. And in this report there is one graphic let me show it this way is Croatia. From this graphic you can see something you can also see in daily newspapers which are the potentials of Croatia and where Croatia is developing. To develop in the northwest, to develop in the east, and to develop along the coast. And this entire central part of Croatia, whether it's Slavonia in this part or it's a frozen sea, or Lika is developing less. It's something you can see every day and in the papers. When you look at a little bit when one of the trade chains is advertised and then they have a circle and shows you where the trade chains are developed and you will always see Zagreb northwest, the eastern part of Croatia and by the sea. And this really speaks about Croatia's development and speaks about where to invest in Croatia in the future and where to really invest in Croatia in the future and take care of it in the future. Likewise, when it comes to these 13 free zones, we will not refer to Bjelovar because he has already stopped being a free zone, then of course there are differences there as well. The ministry has reached one conclusion, but that conclusion is always your statistic. But let's see the conclusion that the ministry made and let's see this summary table. So, only in three free zones in 2014, there was an increase in the workforce, with it being drastically with 3 and a half thousand in Varazdin, and 3565 exactly the employee was increasing to 4524. There is a slight increase in Osijek and Danube, and in all others there is a significant reduction in labour force by being on Slavonski Brod, i.e. Đuro Đaković from 973 employees to 242 and in Zagreb from 492 to 241. So the same number of users is in the Slavonski Brod area, which is the ministry, i.e. a respected deputy minister and said, from 42 users to 1 and in the area, therefore the free zone Zagreb is from 67 to 32. These are the processes that took place between 2013 and 2014 However, it was also seen that the process was also vice versa in Varazdin, where it was an increase of approximately 1,000 employees. The same way when you look at the number of employees it varies from one in Krapina-Zagorje County and it is clear why it is one. This one is because this free zone is exclusively used for storage up to 4524 in the area of the Varazdin free zone. So all of these indicators show what happens to free zones. You can see what processes they are. These processes can also be seen in relation to exports, therefore also compared to production, compared to exports, compared to all other indicators that are very significant in this report. However, there is one more thing that needs to be taken into account. Take care of free zones that are not used today. It's about two free zones that are infra-infrastructured, which are not used. It's a free zone of Kukuljanovo that hasn't been used, so it hasn't been used since 2010. It is fully infrastructured and it is about a 100 ha area and it is about the free zones of Split-Dalmatia County which took advantage of the possibility that free zones could use that they are not in one place but that they are in several places. So when it comes to Split-Dalmatia County, they are free zones in Split, Sinj, Brač in Postiram, Brač in Nerežić and Klis i.e. Sinj. And it's about an area of 2 million 133 940 m2 or 213 ha. So what we need to take care of in the future is that we have two free zones that have no users. One since 2010, therefore 6 years, the second since 2011, that one area is 100 ha and the other is a total area of 213 ha, that these free zones are fully communal and infrastructureised. Therefore, I think that in the next period it would be worth it with users, or concessionaire, the user does not, with the concessionary of these two free zones. I note once again that this Split-Dalmatia is not in one place to sit down, talk because we hear and hear and read in the media that there are investors, that there are investors who would like to invest, that there are investors. Of course, this investment is always on construction, municipally equipped land. Maybe it's potential, maybe it's land we can use for another purpose in the future. It's final. We will support this report. The report is very correct, but the report, as well as all other reports, should not only read dry figures, but read what is the basis of these reports. This report shows exactly what Croatia's development is and what areas Croatia is developing in. You can see this disproportionate from the northwest that continues to develop in free zones unlike some other parts and see potentials that are in free zones, and perhaps these potentials need to be converted into another value in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8341	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear Representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8342	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear colleagues, I'm glad you discussed it like this. I have one remark on your exposure especially because you're a minister and you've been in the past government. You see, you were talking about free zones, you were talking about statistical regions, or I'm talking about statistical regions, why are we lagging behind in that continental region? I come from Slavonia and Baranja, I come from Požega-Slavon County, so we've just warned you in the past government people don't do this, we have two statistical regions. We at the Pleternica in my Požega-Slavon County have been evaluated in the same economic sense as those in Opatija. Imagine now what is the income of a city in Opatija, the city of Zagreb or, say, the city of Požega. Well, it's a disaster, so it's going to destroy us right now and we're going to be in a position to have certain parts of the cities in Croatia, the municipalities that have everything and who already have it, and we're simply not going to be able to achieve those goals because we're divided into 2 statistical regions. Well, that was our goal, and you see, you're talking about it today. That's what free zones are all about. Look at the free zones down in Zadar at sea or anywhere else. So how am I gonna get someone into my zone when I don't have such conditions as other environments? And it was you in the past government and these past four years that you haven't heard anything about it. And it's nice to meet you, my colleague, and I appreciate that you're discussing it like this, but you can see how we're getting a little bit of truth and we're getting to what we're saying is not good, and here every day it's going to show more and more. And we in Slavonia will feel it best and we've already felt it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8343	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8344	Thank you very much. So the graphics I've shown are certainly not the result of the past four years but is the result of a long series of years. I accidentally mentioned it, and maybe not by accident, but on purpose. So we have to bring some strategic documents. There is a simple document that was delivered to this Assembly somewhere in the middle or end of last year that speaks and is called the Strategy of Spatial Development of the Republic of Croatia which is precisely talking about what we need to do in Croatia by 2030 to make this empty space, I see it spatially-planish, so you absolutely, all cards show it. Usually, what I said is most common when you see a commercial commercial for shops you will see so the east country of Osijek itself towards the east you will see this northwestern part of Zagreb towards the north and along the sea that it is lined with dots and that this part is empty. And that's something we should do in the future. We need to work systematically, we need to work meaningfully, we need to work through a series of strategies that will be defined and that will tell us what the future should be. I hope that this strategy that I have mentioned, which is somehow the basis for all other strategies will be in this House perhaps slightly modified or completed soon and that we will have the opportunity to discuss because it will be the basis for all of this you are saying. And not to be denied for the fact that there is no free zone in Zadar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8345	Thank you. The next debate is on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Damir Mateljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8346	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. Report on Free Zones in the Republic of Croatia for 2014 on the basis of Article 25 The Law on Free Zones is adopted or submitted by the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Trade, and this is the 3rd report so far, as already stated in the debate. There is much to be said in the debate, so unfortunately we will have to repeat ourselves. The Ministry is also responsible for carrying out administrative and other tasks relating to the establishment and operation of free zones. This is a report, and it is said, therefore professionally, transparently and it is a very transparent article from which it is visible how to establish free zones, their basic features. The legal framework for the establishment and operation of free zones and the number and schedule of free zones in the Republic of Croatia and both on the mainland and on the coast are visible. And finally, a performance of the business of all business zones together and each zone individually or individually. And this display shows us other than the physical data to concessionaries and concession conditions tells us about the size of the zone, the revenues, the share of exports in these revenues, the number of employees, the fees that these zones share to the local community and the state and, therefore, this good report shows what we are most interested in doing business in these zones, that these zones operated more or less successfully. But there, too, should be emphasized by what counterpart Mrak-Taritash emphasized, which is therefore that this performance schedule in those zones is not the same. Users of all free zones in the Republic of Croatia, 143 in 2014, employed a total of nearly 8,000 workers. Although both the number of workers and the number of users of the zone is reduced by almost 35%, their total income is higher by 8.5% compared to 2013 and for 2014 amounts to over 5 billion kuna. There is an even bigger growth in profits, which compared to 2013 is higher by $117.34 million and amounts to almost 150 million in profits. The total amount of users of free zones was 4 billion kuna, which in total was almost over 77%, and the country's income, i.e. the income of local self-government on which free zones were located, increased by 230 thousand kuna and amounted to 760 thousand kuna in 2014. These data that I have just presented and standing in this Report for 2014 on free zones tell us, although someone wants to show this differently, that this year 2014 was a milestone for exiting the RS crisis and that the overall growth of industrial production and exports also reflected on users of free zones, or vice versa, that the growth of income and profits in free zones reflected on the overall growth of the economy in the Republic of Croatia. My colleagues and colleagues, for the rest of the time being, I could still read you a whole series of these data that are in this report. But I don't think that makes any sense because unlike the public, I think that we MPs are written enough to read it ourselves. And actually this demotivating agenda that brings us the 2013 reports, in 2014 we should actually skip and do 2016. So I am not wasting any more time on you and the rulings yet to conclude that the SDP club will accept this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8347	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS club, HDS's distinguished representative Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8348	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished rapporteurs, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party and the Croatian Democratic Party, I welcome you all together. And I want first of all to praise this report even though it applies to 2013 and 2014, I think it is useful for all of us to get it and to discuss it and to read from these indicators that those local and regional self-governments that have been trying to create a business climate and develop entrepreneurship infrastructure in their area have made good use of this Law establishing customs zones and thus allowed 143 entrepreneurs to achieve their business goals, to use their business through easier business as regards customs laws and privileges through customs operations and through VAT their capacities, to employ almost 8 thousand people and thus to have local and regional self-governments who, together with companies, established such zones as well as entrepreneurs, and also citizens of their entire area. So here is the area of Brod-Posavina County, the town of Slavonski Brod and Brod-Posavina County, along with the holding Đuro Đaković founded a... zone of free zone in which there were 40 entrepreneurs and who mainly employed workers who were excess in Đura Đaković mostly metrotrerading professions and other processing professions. And thus reduced the pressure on the Ministry of Employment in Slavonski Brod and contributed to the overall development of this region. What we are now interested in is whether it is just a change of law and a reduction of these privileges that 39 have filed a request to leave the zone, that only the company of Saint Jean Industries is the French owner, whom I also commend since it is in the meditrerading industry, in the auto industry found its interest to open its capacities in the town of Slavonski Brod. And it is commendable that they expand their business and that new employment of workers has been announced regardless of these amendments to the Free Zones Act. The real question is where are these 39 craftsmen, the entrepreneurs who did business in the area, in which we can help them in the future. So here I call on the Minister, the Deputy Minister to come on a working visit to invite these entrepreneurs who have been doing business in the free zones and now are no longer to see where they are on the market today in what way and what relief we can make it possible for them to continue their business and keep their jobs, or to develop their business further. I think there, so here it's said you need to have an educated, quality workforce. I think in Slavonski Brod there are labour forces of this kind, that we also have tradition through Đuro Đakovic, that we also have a engineering college, a university. I believe that you will also support us in a request for a university in the town of Slavonski Brod and thus strengthen our capacities and underdeveloped regions such as Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. So surely these capacities should also be used in the future and seen where these entrepreneurs are and what measures we can take further, in the future make business easier. And of course this is part of the free zones that are in ports to see how to raise the level of operations of ports and free zones in them. We are also interested in the port of Slavonski Brod to invest more as soon as possible and allow interested investors to realise their production capacities there. Here's hoping that the thermal power plant will finally start building in Slavonski Brod, too, to have those administrative barriers they had, and that it will be an opportunity for other investors to follow their lead. Here I am saying that on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party, we will accept this report but I ask that it sit down with these entrepreneurs as soon as possible and see how to help them further. I think they deserve help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8349	Thank you. The next is an individual debate by the distinguished representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8350	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. First, I should like to thank all the clubs in the Croatian Parliament for their support in this report prepared by the former ministry, i.e. the Ministry of 2015, since unfortunately it is still the only thing we are still discussing and these are the 2014 reports. Legal solutions have very few or none at all. And most of all, I'm saddened that there is no solution related to entrepreneurs and craftsmen. And when we talk about this report, we can't mention that there's very little, or at all no activity at this time in the resolution ministry to help entrepreneurs and craftsmen except, of course, the principle announcements at certain activities such as lunches in the HUP, etc. and constantly one of those same announcements. So 3% of the HBOR interest rate we already have, simplifying the procedures during the ongoing competitions, which are already in operation, but there are no further steps and what we need these three months ago and we would have seen that there was a certain continuity in the government that was before this. As far as the free zones are concerned, as is apparent here, a very efficient instrument for the export of RH especially according to third markets since 2013 when we are normally in the EU that a part of entrepreneurs and also in Slavonski Brod have no longer found their interest in working in free zones since they are only free zones and most of all I would say feel the benefits towards those entrepreneurs who exercise rights and exports. And since we are now on the EU common market, the effect is no longer normal and will, in part, be reduced and the volume of business and the number of employees and the number of companies that have an interest in working in free zones should we rely only on exports to the EU. What we should be doing in the future is promoting exports to other countries outside the EU, primarily I would say to major economies in South America and Asia, and these areas that are on our Adriatic side should be used. By reading today and looking at initiatives in newspapers where some countries offer cooperation in several areas, I would say that such cooperation should be accepted by both hands. So, if we can see the interest of some countries in the East importing their goods into the EU via our ports and that this co-operation is expanding, for example, to the defense, I don't see why we shouldn't be there for that, and if we determine ourselves, we won't be at a loss. What I want to say is, although it worked in the free zones last year and 2014 respectively, 7827 employees, and that number has fallen somewhat. I am concerned because I have a feeling that today, especially when we talk about activities that are in decline or craftsmanship, there will be fewer and fewer people working there because this government and the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts at this time do not support craftsmanship and here I will say today and I will mention every time in the next discussions that 1200 families in Croatia are waiting for scholarships to have the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts to suffer which was adopted in the Budget more than a month ago, meaning the most needed people in the Republic, children who are educated in occupations which are rarely who decide to enroll at all, vocational schools have a problem with enrolmenting in such occupations, the Ministry of Secured Money in Budgets does not pay our children. My question, then who will work in the free zones? In these companies? My question is why isn't that money paid? It is about 5250 kuna, which is 1200 and more Croatian families are waiting. It is my dear colleagues and colleagues and representatives of the Ministry of 5000 people in the Republic of Croatia, our fellow citizens who are waiting for that money, and I say it is the rarest socially endangered population. Which is why it is not paid and why someone who may have decided to enter such an occupation next year would now enter such an occupation on the basis of the scholarships that we introduced last year, £7502 a month. It is a matter of responsibility and responsibility and of the ministry and of the minister, which is why it is not done. It is a very big problem and I am sure that each of you as people send emails to me and ask why it is not paid, you probably have contacts because in every Croatian town there are children who create this scholarship. I call you to pay off that money, don't wait and don't keep around speeches, speeches, announcements, take concrete jobs, pay off incentives or pay off their scholarships to children. It's a call from this place so that tomorrow these kids can make it and again I'd say some new kids want to write such a profession because that help isn't small. On the other hand, we have none for the first time, nor for those who operate in free areas of incentives, so there is no concrete incentive programme for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, and we have seen that in the free zones the most small and medium-sized entrepreneurs operate. For the first time since 7, 8 years, there is no programme by the government of the Republic of Croatia to encourage small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Why? I don't know. Perhaps because there are no concrete ideas again, so it shouldn't have been too innovative, it should have taken over what was in recent years, provided the money in the budget and started with incentives. So I'm worried that this growth we've had in recent years between small and medium-sized entrepreneurs won't continue because we don't have a program. For the first three months, we don't have a single concrete measure of the Ministry of Enterprise and Trade except for the SID of Finance and PRISIF financing that we agreed with the World Bank last year and it's a single programme, again I say the programme of the past government. Please gentlemen, get to work, do something and suggest. In the first three months of last government, we had a program of entrepreneurial impulses, an increase to enter the VAT system from 150 to 230 thousand kuna, an increase of payments for the pausal to VAT to 150 thousand kuna, so there were concrete activities and measures. There's nothing here except I've said announcements here and there, of course, and there's interviews about INE, so we're more concerned with the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts INO and energy than we are with small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. We already have three percent interest already in HABOR, we have access to funding, we have EU funds, a tender for entrepreneurs and craftsmen from the EU has been stopped because of these announcements for the last three months, and we are now waiting for changes to the rules. For what? Because 15 million kunas weren't enough support for an individual entrepreneur? Does anyone need more? Is that why the contest stopped, whether it will cause us to lose a few months and I am waiting because the minister said it would be over in ten days, by the end of the fourth month at the beginning of the fifth. Unless a tender for small and medium-sized enterprises for investment in equipment and facilities is restarted next week. I question the responsibility of those who stopped it. What made you stop, why didn't the things that worked go further? Because they're supposed to facilitate procedures, so now they won't need a bank guarantee in advance. So what it means is that we're going to appreciate the projects all and then after that, after our employees evaluate the projects, if someone doesn't get a bank guarantee, that job will be in vain. So, some of the things we've done, which have been good, have been stopped because of what interests? Because some 15 million kunas may not be enough and may want to receive 25 or 30 million kunas. That's why competitions don't stop and certain things don't change. What I would like to say in the end is not satisfied with the situation in the City of Zagreb. For what? Because of what we see in the City of Zagreb, a total of 7827 employees only work 241, because exports have fallen, because income is approximately 397 million kuna, which is again less than or somewhere around 10%. I'm sorry, 671 million kuna, which means 13%, which means Zagreb is not using its capacity. If we have a quarter of the economy in Zagreb then this share of income in the Republic of Croatia must not be 13% but at least 25 percent and more since we have the best developed infrastructure. The mayor of Zagreb obviously has no interest in such projects and does not give them support, but ask God what he does. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8351	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Miroslav Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8352	Dear colleague Maras, at the very beginning you thanked the Ministry for the support of the clubs that expressed their support for the report. Of course, the ministry has certain merits in these reports, however, through the Croatian Free Zone Association, I am well aware of the relations of the ministry itself, according to the free zones, towards the people who work there, towards the concessionaries, towards those who carry out activities in the free zones. And I can say that they weren't happy with the relationship they had at the ministry while you were head of the ministry. I also have some notes from the meetings that show that you have been familiar with many of the problems that are still present today in the free zones themselves. What we expect from the new Head of the Ministry to approach much different, much more responsibly, is that we do not get this information anymore than really all the information you get from the field about the possibility that the Republic of Croatia may not have used all of the EU tax options available to us, that often we do not have a uniform practice in the areas, that you are taking all this information into account, that you are treating these people correctly and that on the basis of this information you are making rules, you are proposing laws, to help them, because what the former government did and the former ministry, unfortunately, here from the first hand of these people, they can say that they are not satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8353	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8354	Well, look, Mr. Simic, I think the numbers speak for themselves. Well, I don't have to have someone in some gang to praise me like yesterday the Association of Small and Medium Entrepreneurs at HUP praised me. He says we've met five times in the past two months. So what does that mean? I mean, do we do business or do we meet at work lunches, lamentate, discuss, brand doing, etc. So I'm here and there are concrete numbers presented. I don't need a note from the meeting if it says that the increase in income was 8 and a half percent. I don't need notes for meetings if he says exports grew 34%. This means that certain effects have been achieved. Well, if that's not good, then I don't know what's good. So, I thanked you for the report because you and you were all the first to praise this report written by the former ministry and responsible for the results that took place in 2014. Now someone's happy with someone. Well, maybe I'm not happy with everything, but the important thing is what's left behind is the results that stay, not if you've met with someone five times in two months. I honestly didn't like it, and very rarely after any openings and evenata I stayed at work lunches and talked with lamb and good wine. I prefer to do the concrete things we've done I think they stay behind us. So I understand these commendations in principle. The results will show. What concerns me is that there is not one specific activity, and you should be worried about it. Why don't you ask yourself, in the MOST negotiations with HDZ and the SDP, there's been a lot of discussion on the incentives of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs? Why don't you talk about it now? There's nothing. That's what you should be worried about, not whether someone told you if he was in a meeting or not. It's totally irrelevant. Oh, no?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8355	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8356	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Maras, your mouth is full of praise. However, statistics speak very differently from what you have said. So, simple stock companies that made employment possible also caused slightly higher profits and exports. But the thing was for your time like this. They say half a term without results. Maras is leading us to certain ruin. These are articles from newspapers that said that in 2014 5,000 trades were less, but 7,000 simple stock companies were open with 10 kuna or I don't know how many stakes had gone into business. Most of them blacked things out, did the job, failed, no responsibility, nothing. There's a rabbit in that bush, Mr. Maras, and in your responsibilities that you've left to the Ministry and should be paid in this year, so no one mentions it. But I think it would be good to explain where 40 million kunas were shot that weren't planned for this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8357	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8358	You say statistics are inexorable and then you quote articles from newspapers, no. Statistics say, "Statistics half a term without results". I mean, it's really interesting statistics, in one sentence, half a term without results. I don't know if you know what statistics are. And if you don't know these are newspaper articles, this isn't statistics. What I'm about to tell you now, as far as you're concerned, you're an agent, as far as any claims and debts are concerned, please refer to the agent's question and let the minister or his deputy answer you here. So the thing is, I can say it 100 times, I'll say it if it takes 100 times and in the future it's about financing interest. That's what some people who are here from local self-government know us about. So it's about the interest the state co-finances. And it has not been co-financed since 2015, 2014, 2013 but has also been co-financed since 2009, 2010, 2011. I didn't cry when I came to the minister that I had to pay those interest rates, but I accepted the government's decision, which was also the same in 2015. And we'll be paying those interest until 2022 or 2023. And the new minister who comes will have to pay the same interest. As for another part of that famous debt, it's about 6 or 7 million kuna that we have to pay the students a scholarship. The budget was adopted in the Croatian Parliament, where did they go? Well, they disappeared among the 1200 most needed families, Mr. Djakic. They got that money. I am proud of this project, of everything we have done in the past four years, because I have personally seen these children and those people who are educated in those professions that are needed by Croatia and have no financial resources. And instead of praying for those funds to be paid off, you're now surprised at something. So help these kids to continue their education and not wait for a month and a half of the money that's secured in the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8359	Thank you. And finally, Deputy Minister of Entrepreneurship and Trade Mr. Mario Turalija.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8360	Mr. Chairman, distinguished parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives thank you for accepting the 2014 Free Zone Report. This report was done by the department of entrepreneurship and crafts professional services. They weren't made by the government. These professional services work a long time and any government to make professional services would sublimate financial reports as they are. I'd like to start by asking Mr. Assembly Attorney Gordan Maras. As far as these five times mean a higher meeting of the current minister than yours is to detect problems that have been accumulated for four years. As for the story and component 2 of the 2.5m-euro SID Capital, it stands in the drawer for a year. There's absolutely nothing done by that. Component 2 goes quickly because it was a problem because you did not want to register in the Republic of Croatia this fund, and you know well that high-risk capital funds are subject to taxes and not acceptable to management. And finally, when the financial results sublime, it turns out that the funds we pay to the World Bank, which is 0.35% of the 20 million euros we have signed, are much, much more expensive. We've placed the SID Capital within a month since we took power in the ministry. Ever since we took the helm of the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts. As for these competitions that are not currently coming out, there were words in this House about the 2014 Report and you went a little bit and extension but we'll answer that question as well. Under the national rules under which you worked for these tenders that were for allocated funds, i.e. For the participation of projects and the writing of projects towards EU funds, they had 6 steps. It takes a certain period of time for this documentation to be minimalised and that instead of years and months that our entrepreneurs and the real sector are crying out for grants it is minimised and that the amount of funds withdrawn is not doubled, but that the ministry turns into a service to the real sector rather than metaphorically closed... As for the 3% interest rate, if you're going to mention statistics within 4 years, you have the real sector's credit rating potential at around 10%. [[You don't understand.]] Your banks are very large about liquidity. Some commercial banks have over 10 billion kunas but are not covered by risk. The point is that this ministry will work and work to cover that risk and easily available funding towards the same real sector. The 3% interest applies not only to HBOR but also to commercial banks that have businesses and a network of businesses spread across Croatia and those small micros that have incomes and up to a million kunas can receive permanent crafts and compete with larger companies with a larger revenue side. As for free zones and good business, we know that free zones have been operating since 1991. The crucial change that took place in the free zones in 2007 was to bring the rules of EU law into line. So by 2016 we will absolutely implement regulation and encourage small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in these free zones. It's simple incarceration, i.e. The openness of the market to the EU and to certain companies did not allow it. to pay was a difficult circumstance for them to pay for that parafiscal charge in the free zones. Only the increase in revenues that occurred generated 4 billion kuna exports and that profit that remained essentially these concessionaries who were in free zones had worse business results. The EU operates with a total of 23 countries with 71 free zones, Croatia itself currently has 13. Two of them don't work, but they'll be re-designed for sure. What Mr. Šimić proposed, of course, is that these proposals for the application of the legislation are in consideration and most of them will be accepted and presented in this Croatian Parliament. By teaching Mr Davor Vlaović and Mr Leon Žul, we absolutely have a diagram of the work and we are among the entrepreneurs. And time will show, as you yourself said, how we will generate our exits towards the real sector, i.e. targeted small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who also statistically generate 99% of Croatia's economy. So doclasifications up to 50m euros in annual income. Mr. Mathelan stated that the income is 4 billion, the export is 4 billion and the income is more than 5 billion kuna. I would like to thank you all once again for accepting this report and see you next year with the 2015 report that we will also present in this distinguished House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8361	Thank you. There's a replica, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8362	In your answer, you haven't mentioned when you're paying off your scholarships, so not a word about it. The scholarships are secured in the budget, the money is still missing. As far as PRISID is concerned, you need to get information and look at it. So we signed the contract with the World Bank in 8.7.2015, we signed the contract. After four months there were elections, and then it's impossible to say it's been sitting in a drawer for a year. So purely technically, the year is 12 months old, after 8.11. it wasn't possible to work until the government formed and now these three months have finally managed to launch the project. But that's what's important to say, it's a former government project and nothing was in the drawer. And thank God we have those resources waiting, and it was just my idea to be in Croatia. Look at the notes from the World Bank meetings. And one of the conditions we set is to be in Croatia. So I wasn't against it, but I initiated it to be a seat in the Republic of Croatia, and that's what your World Bank colleagues will tell you because they know it. Or have them make a briefing for you at HAMAG, and it will also be clear to you from certain data. So nothing was waiting in the drawer on the other side, as you'll achieve 3%, we don't hear anything about it. So HBOR has 3%, you're now saying you want 3% in commercial banks. How are you gonna do that? Well, that's, I want the interest 1% in Croatia. Maybe if they were 0.5% if I was talking about it right now, people would say look at him, I mean what he's saying, it's not possible. How are you going to get 3%? Let's say I had a concrete measure last year, we subsidized 5% interest on micro loans, precisely for those that are the smallest and 5% we agreed with banks and over 2,000 such loans were realised. So that's a concrete measure. Tell us how you'll achieve it. So what you're saying, unfortunately, is one generality as I call it and unfortunately doesn't bring any results. I wish you had concrete solutions and suggestions but unfortunately you don't have them.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8363	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8364	Thank you very much. So as far as the PRISID is concerned, the PRISID is worth 20 million euros and consists of three components. So component 1 which is set at 2.5m euros is currently placed and consists of another component of 2 which is 10.7m euros and of component 3 technical support of a million and a half euros. Component 2, you misunderstood me, I said you were a braker because of the law, i.e. You wanted to register a fund in Croatia. But then he wouldn't be acceptable to start ups and early phases of financing the real sector. Because... , wouldn't be Mr. Maras because if he registered in the Republic of Croatia such a fund he was subject to the pay of the profit tax and then it would happen to us to pay the loan that we took from the World Bank on unused funds and then generate even greater losses. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in the European Union, I apologize, in the EU, if this fund is registered and the funds from that fund are not subject to tax, that means tax to the free and then only those companies that carry out their activities in Croatia are financed. And then there's progressive and rapid realization of these... funds in the Croatian economy i.e. in greenfield and brown field investments that we need very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, as regards interest, interest rates, you essentially with your subsidies that you've been doing, basically, you've been filling bank pockets because banks have been raising their emergent weighted, weighted interest rate and earning extra profits. And I hope you've heard about the portfolio guarantees and guarantees of capital that will have an effect on covering the risks of banking and the very source of funding. Here, so we have absolutely a lot better solutions than they've been in the last four years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8365	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8366	Now we're going to vote. First we will vote on the report on the business of free zones in the Republic of Croatia in 2014. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Economic Committee, I am voting on the following conclusion: Report on the business of free zones in the Republic of Croatia in 2014 is hereby adopted. Please vote, who's to conclude? The vote is over, 152 votes for, 2 abstentions. I find that most of the votes have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the home working body.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8367	The next item is - Final proposal of the Law on the implementation of EU customs legislation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 25 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204 and 206 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You've received the materials. When setting the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the applicant to put this legislative proposal in an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 206. Rules of Procedure, in accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to the Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Whether a proposaling representative, distinguished Minister Zdravko Maric wants it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8368	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the vice presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Therefore, this law regulates the implementation of EU-level customs legislation authorising Member States to regulate certain issues in the field of customs legislation which are not subject to Union jurisdiction by national legislation. The Regulation on the Union Customs Code as a whole of its binding direct application in all Member States introduces a series of innovations which result in the need for the adoption of a new law implementing EU customs legislation in order to regulate certain issues for which the Union Customs Code Regulation empowers Member States to regulate certain issues in the field of customs legislation by national legislation, I repeat, whose regulation is not within the competence of the EU. These issues are governed by this law with a view to ensuring the application of binding EU customs rules and ensuring the legal certainty of participants in the customs procedure carried out on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Since the customs code of the Union has been in full application since 1 May 2016, it is necessary to carry out the adoption procedure by the Republic of Croatia by the full day of its application, and therefore we have proposed an emergency and this law, as proposed, would therefore come forward with 1 May 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8369	Thank you. Does the Committee’s rapporteur perhaps want to take the floor? There isn't. I'm opening a debate. The first reported is the HDZ Club, the esteemed representative Leon Žulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8370	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives, MPs and respected ministers. We have before us a law governing customs frameworks, meaning customs legislation within the EU, and by entering the EU, we are obliged to bring the legislative framework in line with the way for businesses to operate, for export, related to... we will, in the following legislative proposals, also even though securities. At the previous point, we had the same debate over free zones where it was also recorded, which now means when we talk about business on free zones, when we talk about customs within the EU. We are part of the Union system, 16% of the world import of goods is taking place in the EU area where the Republic of Croatia is a member, that means 270 million tonnes of goods, and this law is harmonised when we talk about a legislative framework in total with the EU, so that one part that was previously defined by our national legislation is now defined in general and the Law on the implementation of EU customs rules. As it is written on the assessment of the sources of the necessary means of law enforcement, there is no need to provide additional resources in the state budget or increase the expenditure of the customs service. This law, if adopted as such, shall apply in all Member States from 1 May 2016. The HDZ Club supports that legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8371	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed representative of the Goddess Makar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8372	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here we have this law that we normally need to comply with, adhere to the EU Directive, and so today we will have this Law on the implementation of EU customs legislation, it is not at all controversial. However, there are a lot of issues left to regulate the EU members themselves, and these members can influence certain laws and, therefore, it would be really good not to bring all such changes and harmonisations, especially where there are a lot of things that regulate the EU members themselves in an urgent process rather than to discuss them and to stay more time to consider and determine observations. In this proposal, the Law covers many additions, amendments, certain issues decided by the Republic of Croatia, which are here in the Assembly. So we have a law governing the issue of customs enforcement of intellectual property rights, the issue of currency conversion, the setting of time limits for payment of customs debt, the introduction of goods into the customs territory, the place and time of inspection of goods, supervision, violations and penalties as well as many other issues. This proposal of the Law on the implementation of EU customs legislation also carried out consultations with the public concerned. It lasted 14 days and during this period I can say that there have been a lot of objections and suggestions and all in order to improve this law. Some of them were also accepted by the promoter until a large number of them were accepted. However, if we really want to help our economies, and we keep saying that and I'm sure that's what we want, then we still need to respect their remarks, their suggestions. Because it's precisely those who do business under these laws who know best how to improve them and how they can all obey those laws, but still not be a limiting factor. They thus asked to be equal with the laws, i.e. that our Customs Law be the same as it is in neighbouring countries which are also EU members, and that these declarations should not be brought into a more unfavourable position at the same time. I believe that these remarks and certain specific situations were to be observed by the Association of International Consignors, and it is to be regulated by an infringement provision where there is no sanctioning of a declarant who has seen a mistake and then corrects it on his own. Once again, it is important that such laws go into a regular procedure so that we have time to consider them and make the most favourable decisions and solutions. The HNS Club will support this bill no matter what it takes to proceed with an emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8373	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8374	The next is the final draft law implementing EU customs legislation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 25. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law implementing EU customs legislation, please vote on who's in favour? The vote is over. 106 votes in, 1 abstention. I find that most votes have been passed by the Law on the implementation of EU customs legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8375	The next item is - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on profit tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. Ten. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 85 of the basic Regulation, The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. We've received the materials in the boxes. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 206. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. The Government has submitted an amendment that has become an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 202. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Does the Proposer want a representative? Dear Minister Zdravko Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8376	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Therefore, the Council Directive of 27 January 2015 amended the Council Directive of 2011 on the common taxation system applicable to parent companies and subsidiaries of daughters from different Member States. Therefore, the Law supplementing the Law on Profit Tax is bound to comply. The 2011 Council Directive provides for a non-taxation of dividend income and a share in profits, and for the non-taxation of dividends and share in profit by deduction for related companies within the EU. It has been observed that these provisions are being misused particularly in the case of large multinational companies such as in two cases. As receiving dividends, there is something that is not a dividend to avoid tax obligations, which is actually about receiving interest or other tax revenue. This harmonisation has already been made in 2014. On the other hand, various artificial arrangements, transactions are created or obtained in a company in a country with a lower tax rate. Then the annual earnings ended with the queen as a dividend, and in fact it was supposed to be the queen's income in the business. Or arrangements, artificial structures that have the effect of mutual beatings or cancellations, circular transactions are negotiated, and the profit is transferred to a company that has a tax loss or benefits tax relief, and subsequently the winnings are paid to the queen and that is incomprehensible, untaxable pardon. And similar examples. This law therefore regulates, or corrects, these injustices, or abuses, as well as introduces so-called. A minimum rule against abuse. According to the Law on a minimum anti-abuse rule, all taxpayers will be subject to corporate tax when determining the right to reduce the tax base, tax obligations and exemptions from taxation. So we expanded the scope of the directive's provisions, given that it deals with residents and non-residents only within the EU, means all taxpayers. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, just a little bit further to say that, with the draft law from the Government, the amendment to the Law amending and supplementing the Tax on Profits is also in place to remove possible ambiguities in application. This amendment defines what the arrangement is, and states that the arrangement represents any business transaction, activity, scheme, agreement, obligation or event, and may consist of several measures or parts. The last sentence, therefore, on the draft law supplementing the Law on Profit Taxation, was also published in public in order to consult the interested public at the end, or in the middle, by the end of 11 months 2015 and during that period no comments were received by the interested public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8377	Thank you. The board? Nothing. I'm opening a debate. The first to hold the debate came from a respected representative, Mario Kristic, on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8378	I would like to thank the esteemed president, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here's to letting me, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, say a few sentences in connection with these amendments and the addition of the Tax on Profits Act. Therefore, the new proposed Article 5a. The profit tax law provides for the possibility for the IRS to deny the right to apply reliefs and benefits to taxpayers if it is found to be so-called. non-authentic arrangements established by the taxpayer only for the purpose of using those benefits. The problem with this provision is a rather general approach to defining these non-authentic arrangements. Now, the minister has also said that an amendment has come from the government that explains the very arrangements that result in broad areas of tax oversight in interpreting whether something is authentic or not. In any event, this provision must not restrict the right of the so-called honest so-called "priority". taxpayers to use the law of the prescribed possibility of reducing the tax base. So here we are talking about the conduct of the tax administration in practice, which is unfortunately often unequal from one area office to another and where they are known to occur extremes from the overly mild approach of individual inspectors to the overly strict approach which can ultimately result in the shutting down of a business subject. Therefore, there is one particular danger of applying this provision in practice. When we talk in general about the tax system, it should be simplified as much as possible and to the minimum awareness of the implementation of complex procedures, it should only encourage tax returns by taxpayers, as this will also speed up and make the effective collection of these taxes. In my view, and according to us from the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, it would be important that the corresponding amendments to the Code on Profit Tax be made more detailed as to what are the indications that these are indeed non-authentic arrangements and what should ultimately be the basis for the initiation of tax supervision and for whom the burden of evidence falls in the procedure itself. Here's how much, we, as the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, will support these amendments and additions to the Tax on Profits Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8379	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed representative of Christmas Macar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8380	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here is the Law on profit tax, that is, the bill. It is a very important law, a law that regulates many questions and affects the lives of many businessmen, their business but also beyond. I agree with those who claim that frequent amendments to the law are not good, especially it is not good to change the Tax on Profit or the Tax on Income because this raises the question of investors who opt to invest in a particular country. In the last 10 years, we've had a lot of changes to the law. One of the major changes was in 2013 that the Tax on Profit was amended. Because of the suspension of the special legislation of the prescribed reliefs for the areas of special state care and the city of Vukovar, new reliefs have been introduced for the first group and the city of Vukovar, i.e. for the second group of cities and municipalities where the first group includes cities and municipalities, i.e. units of local self-government whose index of development is up to 50% of the average of the Republic of Croatia, while the second group includes those where the average of development is between 50% and 75%. Otherwise, they are the first to be released from paying taxes while others pay 50% or not 20 percent but 10%. I know this is not being solved by this law, but it would be very important to establish new criteria for the classification of local self-government units according to the level of development. There really needs to be an urgent view of what can be done because the criteria are very not going to say strange but let's be impossible to determine the actual degree of development based on these criteria. This has also changed the way in which credit institution expenditure is recognised in the event of a write-off of claims on the basis of credits given. In 2014, the conditions for the use of reliefs for reinvested profits were amended. There has also been coordination with the EU Council Directive 2011/96. on a common taxation system applicable to parent companies and subsidiaries of daughters from different Member States. In this proposal of the Law on Tax on Profits, there are no substantial changes, but it is a matter of harmonising this law with the EU Council Directive 2015/12. of January 27, which was also discussed by the minister where better control is sought, that there is no abuse of situations that were actually meant to go hand in hand to those who wanted to do business properly and to allow them to do better business. We have brought ourselves into a situation that we now need to control the council or introduce some new rules to make it impossible for those who wanted to abuse it. In fact, there have often been cases where companies were established in other Member States, daughters, and there has been documentation where tax relief and other benefits could really be used, but the actual event in practice did not occur. So there was no authenticity of events, and that's why it's just going on. We think it's good and it needs control but what my colleague said before me normally appreciates those and respects and allows them to use them correctly and who want to pay that tax. The HNS representative club will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8381	Thank you. The next debate is distinguished representative Ivan Shuker on behalf of the HDZ club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8382	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. Probably an eternal issue when it comes to taxes, always the legislator makes the law and those who need to pay taxes seek to take advantage of the current situation and pay as little tax as possible. And the logical thing is that at the time in Croatia the profit tax was increased with various other supplements, dividend tax, tax per deduction, etc. that there are interests of taxpayers that, regardless of international accounting standards, domestic accounting law, EU directives want to be placed in a position to reach as low and lower levels of profit tax as possible. However, colleagues and colleagues are not only interested and the goal of entrepreneurs in Croatia. Unfortunately, many multinational companies who often taught us the lesson took advantage of the opportunity to perform some services in their businesses in Croatia and in some other countries and treat it as if they provided and thus avoid tax pay, pay profit taxes. We also had the situation of the Republic of Croatia which clearly tells us that sometimes tax exemptions can cause far greater damage to the state than they are. So we've had certain years to say tax havens in the Republic of Croatia based on this or that law. However, this unfortunately did not lead to a real economic recovery in these areas, I am primarily thinking about areas of special state concern but many unfortunately registered companies there, practically fictitiously and the company has really worked somewhere else, but they have also shown profit tax and this is the arrangement discussed by the minister who the government further explained by its amendment. So somewhere else they worked and in the area of special state care or especially the city of Vukovar Act they used the opportunity to show that the headquarters of the company was there and that in such a way they avoid paying taxes. It's on the home section. And countries sign mutual agreements to avoid double taxation just so these things don't happen. We are also witnessing media signs now that some Croatian companies and some people are involved in areas where tax havens are. So it's always happened. However, national legislation simply needs to be that way if you want to attract an investor, then you must be acceptable to it. You have to draw him in and see if ultimately what he pays in the state and units of local self-government is more than some rate that's obviously high and you'll think you'll finally pick something up but eventually you get less. Because when you look at all the giving, let's just start by saying a lot about the pension system these days. Each newly employed salary contributes to pension and thus increases the revenue side of the state budget and reduces the need for borrowing to pay off pensions. However, when it comes to taxing profits, it does not look at how much new investment brings new jobs. How much other revenue is in the budget that may be far more important and far more important than the profit tax itself. But if the same amount of profit tax becomes uncompetitive, if you practically get your taxpayers to go to some other tax oasis in the neighborhood, they basically open up the company there and do everything together, and then eventually they transfer some of the work there and the profit is shown, so a lower profit tax is paid and dividends are entered into Croatia, it is not paid profit tax and is a clear goal. So, the aim of the law is to create a wider base for taxation, just by being in a position to make the income tax in the Republic of Croatia competitive for all investors. After all, our ultimate goal is to attract investors, create new jobs, and this law should only be looked at regardless of what it is to comply with the EU directive, it should be seen to go in this direction. Therefore, the HDZ Club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8383	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first replica is the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8384	I'm glad you mentioned the subject in this context too, and I've seen very critical tax credits. But you say it's also necessary to be attractive, but I don't believe you said it in that context. I am taking this opportunity to talk seriously about this problem together, not just abuses in the existing tax havens, but especially that as an EU country, we are trying to make these tax prefers eradicated because wherever there are tax prefers, there is a hell for ordinary taxpayers. While EU countries and we experience this, governments are forcing each other to set up different strictness measures and train austerity measures until one EU budget is lost and collapsed in tax havens.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8385	Responsible replicated representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8386	My colleague Anticevic, I'm actually glad we're getting along. And this law goes towards eliminating these tax havens. To eliminate also companies in Croatia that fictitiously open to these tax havens, the company is fictitiously showing some jobs there so that they do not pay taxes and then income from that company enters in Croatia they are untaxable based on positive legal rules because they pay a lower tax rate and generally legalise money. That's why I said that even some tax havens that were in Croatia, we can call them that because the legislation's intention at the time when the Law on areas of special state care was passed, and that specifically regulated the Tax on Income and Tax on Profit. Also, the University of Vukovar Act was an intensities for investors and for those who wanted to take action to areas of special state care, to open up facilities and employ locals. Unfortunately, however, it turned into something else. I report the company there, I work somewhere else, and then I don't end up paying a profit tax. And when I talked about wanting to become tax-interesting, we always have to look at our environment. It's your best example of cigarette excise duty. As long as our countries in the neighborhood have a much lower excise duty than Croatia on cigarettes until there will be a great interest in smuggling. Because you're so-called. High tariff goods are very interesting to those who want to make a quick profit. However, when you have approximately equal excise duties, there is no interest in it, and it decreases. And we've had experience in the past 20 years, no matter what political nomenclature the same story is with the profit tax. However, only one elemental question arises whether we, with the profit tax extension of a tax base, can pick what we want but be interesting to investors. Because if these investors go to Croatia, we will have neither jobs nor health contributions nor income taxes, nor pensions. So in that context, I was talking.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8387	Thank you. The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8388	Thank you very much. Comrade Shuker, you've noticed very well. It means in undeveloped areas such as Vukovar, that tax on profits to certain economies means either being reduced or being a free area, not being those taxes, so it should be in the whole area of undeveloped areas with the obligations of those entrepreneurs who come to be jobs, in undeveloped areas, not to open those places, their companies fictitically in Vukovar or elsewhere. It is very important here to note that we have a profit tax in Croatia and this has been spoken and mentioned frequently in public, it has been forgiven for the political similarities of various entrepreneurs and for the millions of people, the obligation to profit on taxes. However, this means that inequality and injustice against all citizens who pay an orderly tax. So do you have information and you know... how many people are there, i.e. Business or legal or natural persons are exempt from those taxes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is there any information? As far as I know, you're turning your head that it's been mentioned that some have not paid their taxes. For what? It's a question and then we're going to democratic procedure, in America if you don't pay the tax you end up in prison, it's hostile to the state, is there any such thing in Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8389	Replication response, esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8390	My colleague Bulj, I think the people in the IRS are doing their job with honor and integrity. The tax administration's information system is such that you can't cross someone's taxes, there's got to be some kind of solution to do that, and someone has to sign that. If someone signed it, then they signed it and basically they signed it against themselves. However, you have some other laws that have been passed to settle tax debts but I don't think it's a good idea for us here in the Parliament to talk like this, someone can't forgive a tax if they didn't sign it. So at the end of the year, you're either a craftsman or someone else is filing a tax return. Based on that, you either get a solution or an annual assignment. The company also submits its financial report showing what is the basis of the profit tax and what profit it must pay, it is all registered in the system and you cannot register it from the system unless someone issues an act to change it. So this is the way you discuss it, you go against this law itself because the institutions that are supposed to implement this, you're disabling them, and that's what's not good. Therefore, all obligations exist whether someone has paid them or cannot be determined why but orderly with the accounting taxes exist. In order to avoid fictitious business through several companies laws have been passed before and the law is now passed in accordance with these new EU directives and these are facts. No one in the IRS can come and tell Jank or Mark, you won't pay the tax. So he has to sign a solution. If he's signed a solution, then he's responsible, and that's the facts. If that were the case, be sure that many tax administration people would end up where they belong, but I tell you people do their job honestly and honestly.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8391	Thank you. The next debate is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras on behalf of the SDP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8392	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, colleagues Ingrid, thank you for your help. When we talk about this law and what is harmonising Croatian legislation with the EU, the Club of Representatives of the SDP will, of course, support this law and all that is related to the possibility of fraud, the establishment of related companies, the payment of various profits without paying taxes in Croatia that are paid here and at the age they have earned here. And on this side I support this law, Croatia must not become a country recognised in the world as a country tax haven, an oasis for money laundering, profit extraction and similar things, and on this side we support this law. What concerns us from the other side, as we are concerned and related to other law proposals, is that it is purely technical harmonisation, what the EU dictates and Croatia accepts in its legislation and that there is no newspaper, that there is no initiative and that on the other hand our entrepreneurs do not have a discharge and in this part of the profit tax. When preparing to take responsibility for the management of the state, you are using these 3.6 months for certain moves that will mark your mandate and that will trigger the Croatian economy or stop it when you do nothing then stop, and when you propose new things then you give an additional impulse and new opportunities. I will remind you of some of the things you would expect at the Club of Representatives of the SDP to move on, or to give as a Government, as a state of certain activities that would help entrepreneurs. In pre-election time post election time, there have been a lot of announcements about tax discharge for companies and entrepreneurs, the abolition of parafiscal duties, the simplification of tax I would say tax collection, the tax should be a friend but nothing happens. We do not have a single proposal, such as the proposal to increase the amount to enter the VAT system to 230 thousand kuna, exempt VAT taxes for companies and trades up to 3 million kuna. We do not have an extension of the differentiated VAT rate when the previous government came into place in 2012 we immediately introduced a 10% rate for tourism that has just enabled significant investment potential in tourism and the start-up of the economy in the sector. Now we've got nothing. Surfing on that wave continues, and new initiatives and activities are not available on the other hand. We also increased the citizens' tax base as soon as we got to the position of 2200 kuna, and two years later, to 2600 kuna and taxed the citizens, which also led to increased consumption and economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia. We've also increased classes. So, more Croatian employees with those middle salaries aren't as burdened as they used to be. And the announcement and the wish was to continue to increase the tax base for the poorest and further disbursement of those who have medium wages in order to make Croatia more attractive in this regard and for those industries that we want here, which are innovative industries, these are industries that create high added value but we are still uncompetitive by tax burden, and there should be some disbursement. So what we're trying to say when we adopt the terms of this tax law, that there are no initiatives and that we don't see in what direction tax reform and tax laws are going in at all. So we have nothing to give new impulses and personal consumption and investments, and ultimately what is most important to the Croatian economy. On the other hand, we have found no tax innovations and I would say impulse to the economy and to the citizens. But on the other hand, there's a tax return, I'd say a tax hike. So we said we didn't want Croatia to become an oasis for money laundering, but we're abolishing the sector that it's done in the last year and a half I'd say big things in the discovery of tax fraud. Although, as Mr. Shuker likes to say, I also appreciate honest tax collectors, but apparently, besides the healthy eyes of certain tax workers, there have been billions and billions of kunas of money washed away, which are not, to which no tax has been paid for years. We see that now there are also charges against certain sports workers that I would say are, of course, until it's determined in court we can't say 100 percent. But there are serious indications that they have avoided paying taxes, and that is exactly what the tax Colloquium called the tax system, that is, the independent sector for detecting tax fraud radio. And what does the new government do? Right away, I'd say in raising tax dirt and masking I'd say those things and what the taxpayer discovered. So, the removal of that department, the lady who led that department very well, is leaving that place. And the question arises is whether in the future it is a message to those who want to deal with tax fraud in the same way, that the presses, or that control will be less than it has ever been. For me, I'm very likely to. So 54 cases per year and a half discovered. Over a billion kunas of tax fraud recorded and against which certain proceedings are conducted. We are now abolishing the sector because obviously both the former government and the employees of the sector and headed by former Minister Lalovec himself have resented many powerful people who do not want such a body to control these major tax frauds. And so instead of having a situation where it's being relieved, where it's being helped by what's most, I'd tell the smallest on the market that they're more simple to fill out tax returns, to allow companies to grow simpler and faster. We have a situation where we de facto propose nothing but that certain large interest lobbys can be easily combined and that some way avoid paying taxes in Croatia. When you prepare for position, when you pay for IFO institutes, then a man would expect more. There is no human proposal, just statistics, or what the EU sends, and I say it in very limited quantities of just a few laws. Well, I guess three months is enough to get some legal solution that will allow our companies to do simpler business to make certain things better, to let themselves go if that German institute has already been engaged, which here has done some things, but these solutions have nothing to do with it. What I also want to say is that when there is nothing already by the position very active is the opposition, i.e. the SDP that directs its legal solutions and this week there will be another 7 laws in the procedure. And I hope, as for example, that here we will be calling from the Most that we will expect support from certain legal solutions that the DDP has adopted in negotiations in the opposite direction. Here we have proposed a new Law on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, which also requested MOST in negotiations to be a voluntary membership, so I hope that this call will be accepted on the other hand and supported primarily in the accelerated procedure, means that two readings are united, that as soon as possible we adopt and allow our entrepreneurs and craftsmen, i.e. in this case the discharge they have been waiting for for many years. On the other hand, we also prepare a certain set of tax laws that will allow for simpler business, which will also allow for raising tax classes what we announced in the campaign and we hoped it would also be accepted, because it does not mean automatic tax discharge and less tax revenues. Well, we saw that in the VAT system. So we've relieved the entrepreneurs that they don't have to pay up to 3 million kuna in advance, and next year there's more income than VAT. For what? Because people are instead of keeping accounts in drawers and when someone tells them I will pay you then they begin to report those accounts at the time of the event and make those who are obliged to pay them as soon as possible. In this case, without fear of having to pay the VAT to the state before they charge their money. So, certain solutions can stimulate better budgeting, so we think here in this case, as I said with companies, but also with citizens who certainly won't if they have 1,000 kunas left more than pay, they'll put that money in their stockings and spend it in 15 years because unfortunately people live hard, they don't have money, and every kuna is good for them, but they'll spend that money and they'll increase personal spending. In the end, the budget will be filled up for the better. So we use this exposure for another call to the rulings to finally activate, agree, to start working because there are no proposals and people are already at the border of patience. So it's not the government's purpose in itself and that people are called ministers or MPs in this way, etc. but it is the authority to propose solutions that citizens will tomorrow feel on their skin and economy to feel on their skin. And they felt, yes, they felt GDP growth in 2015 of 2%, they felt growth in industrial production, growth in net wages, they also felt the tax order, for example, of companies that did not pay their suppliers messyly, and sometimes it was also about state-owned companies that supplied raw materials. They also felt the introduction of order in Croatia that exists. All that expensive people feel in their own skin but they can't feel anything unless there's a suggestion. And given this here I say once again that the proposal by the position no SDP will again propose some laws this week, but has already proposed some, and that is another curiosity. So in the first two months or three months after the new government began to work, the opposition club proposed more laws than the Government of the Republic of Croatia suggested less than 40 MPs. So it turns out that maybe we should valorize not only the representatives by the amount of work but also the ministers. So this was the idea that we've heard here that MPs are being valorized that way, but how are we going to do it with ministers who don't have a single proposal for three months? Do they deserve pay? Does someone who only reads the 2014 report and does not present a single proposal at the government's session in the parliamentary procedure deserve to be paid? That should also be taken into account. And I hope those who bear responsibility as part of the ruling coalition take care of that too. Because only three months ago, people remember what they asked the big parties for, and today we didn't get anything and we don't have anything. Except for a better situation for those who want to mess up and mess up. And that's what I said that reads from. I hope that with this practice in the future and this ruling coalition will stop. Once again, we will support this law, and since unfortunately we do not receive any proposals from the Government, we will propose them to us parliamentary representatives, which is ultimately our duty and moral obligation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8393	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8394	My colleague Maras looks like you're from Mars, not a former minister. If it's worth how many ministers work, I agree with you, the legal proposals, and I don't know how many of you as a minister have made a proposal here in four years? Well, here's what you mentioned about the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, yes, that should be changed. Why did you pull that off when you were a minister? Someone stepped on your foot on the way or did coalition partners not let you do it or something like that? So tell the public and openly that this government didn't work, but... You were afraid to propose laws, you had to withdraw them as ministers. [[You don't understand.]] It's a fact and it's true. So the most important thing is the truth. The other thing you're saying is that you made your own Plan 21 or whatever it was called. Well, at least one... billions of kunas in the debt of the Republic of Croatia, so one third of the total debt in 4 years is in charge. [[You don't understand.]] Well, if we were to talk about agriculture and a number of these things, we'd have a devastating result. Of course the Most will support everything that is good and that you have signed it. in the negotiations. However, there are some changes. Let's say now our citizens will pay less gas, not what you've introduced about the environment that every company has to have a waste of environmental protection burden on the professional person of the company who had to pay those people without any need. There's some news, but this is only three months of this government. And I'm really amazed at you and admire how after three months you can attack the government this way, and you've been a minister for four years, and I don't know your results that are so successful, astounding or maybe the citizens don't feel that they live much better in the four years that you've been in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8395	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8396	Mr. Bull, you obviously didn't follow things, and then you wouldn't be surprised at us like this. 120 thousand Croatian entrepreneurs and craftsmen have a smaller tax record or do not have to pay VAT per invoice. The competitions are five times bigger, we've done a lot and people feel it. After all, you do not have to believe but look at the official data of EUROSTAT. GDP growth of 2% is something that is a fact, if it hadn't been done, and there wouldn't have been any results, either. So 2% of GDP growth, 10%, over 10% export growth, industrial production. So the deficit, Mr. Bull, is smaller than ever. We found 25 billion kuna and with 10 billion kuna a year we left. So 15 billion plus with everything we've done. Well, don't be surprised I didn't fall off Mars, but we've been doing all this for four years. And now you've listed two things that fall within the technical domain of two ministries that work if you have a good will in one day as some result that happened. So that's basically what you don't understand obviously. The government must have an initiative and propose laws. And it doesn't even matter what I think after 90 days, see what the citizens think, do you trust them, too? Do you think the citizens are saying that this government is good, that you've done a lot? Let the opposition MPs go, they'll criticise but look at the government ratings among the citizens, so that's what you need to worry about. That's what he says about me being right and not being you. And that's the only measure to see the government's results. More than 60% of the citizens think that this is all wrong and going the wrong way. I don't have to add anything to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8397	The next replica, distinguished representative Zeljko Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8398	Dear President of the Parliament, there is one saying that says this, says in the animal kingdom the parrot speaks the most and the worst flies. From how far the SDP has flown over the past four years, I've been amazed by some excuses here, apologies. What did we do? True structural reforms, the judiciary of 800,000 unsolved cases, you had... A thousand and a few judges, 2,000 judges, the entire brigade, you had six hundred more expert advisors, what they were doing, you have so many unsolved cases. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Tax administration, in your time there has been the biggest circular fraud in Croatia's history, in the tax administration. That's what's coming at me right now. Let's not talk about DUDI. What about denationalization? Who's going to invest in you when you haven't solved the land books of Austro-Hungarian. What you're saying is peripheral stuff. Structural reforms don't have any. Furthermore, less corruption affairs as post-mortem aid, smaller ones, where the 103 million kuna was taken, what about it? What was the state's attorney's office doing? What about anti-corruption laws, etc.? What about the origin of the property? Who wrote the law in 2011? You wrote the Tax Act, where selective heads were released and companies, hundreds of millions of taxes and you stamp people's cafes for 2 kunas, that's Podekin's village for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8399	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8400	So in 2011, the laws were written in HDZ, I don't know if you remember that in 2011, but it wasn't that long ago. ... Well, yes, but in 2011, he wrote HDZ Law, so on the other hand, the number of pending cases is in four years in half as much as he was. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Unfortunately, it's impossible for Mr. Glasnovic, I don't know if you followed the situation in the last one I'd say 7.8 the government in the Republic of Croatia of 25, 26 years HDZ has been in power for 17 years, I don't know if you're aware of it. So all these problems you're talking about, so you're complaining to yourself, don't even mention it because 17 years out of this 25 is HDZ in position. It means only if you give up HDZ. If that is the case in this section regarding this non-resolvement of the riots in Croatia, then you are right, but I don't think you're aware of that, perhaps in your discussions. And Austro-Hungarian, I don't know if Austria has any other ownership in the Republic of Croatia and whether it's been solved but a lot has been done in the last four years to activate state property. If you go from Dubrovnik to Istria you will see hotels that are built...... Yeah, honestly, for your question I don't have an answer for, it's probably UDBA's fault. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Intruder: Please no trespasses.]] So I'm surprised you didn't have anything to do with it. So the hotels were built, the potentials were activated. And here's Cooperi's final example, it took two, three years to figure it out. But it is an investment that will bring hundreds of new jobs and 4 hundred million euros in investment. So it's done, it's not if it wasn't done and it'd be great if it was done before us. And I hope you will continue that pace that we have set.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8401	Here's what we're going to conclude with this debate on this point. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8402	Now we'd move on to a vote on the laws we've been working on. First of all, the Final Proposal for the Law amending and supplementing the Law on profit tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. Ten. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. During the debate, the Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted an amendment that became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 202. Rules of Procedure. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be made aware of the amendments made by the Committee. Dear Minister of Finance Zdravko Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8403	Thank you very much, Mr. President, gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the vice presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Therefore, the government accepts both amendments proposed by the Committee on Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8404	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. Thus, they become an integral part of the law. Article 2 of the final proposal of the law has a return effect. It was therefore obvious to the Committee on Legislatives. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure will determine whether there are particularly legitimate reasons for the return to action of certain provisions. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I shall give the following conclusion: There shall be assessed as having been particularly justified reasons for the feedback of Article 2. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Tax on Profit Act. Please engage. Let's vote. Who's in favour of that conclusion? What's the score? 102 for, 2 abstentions, none against. I find that most of the votes we have reached the proposed conclusion. I am now voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Tax on Profits Act. Please vote. Who's in? The vote is over. 103 votes in favour, 2 abstentions. I find that most votes have been passed by the Law amending and supplementing the Tax on Profits Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8405	The following point is: - Final proposal for a Law implementing Regulation (EU) No 515/2013. This appropriation is intended to cover: 236.2012, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 13. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. The Constitution and Articles 172 and 204, 206. The Rules of Procedure of the Parliament. You've received the materials. When setting the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the applicant to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 206. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Does the Proposer want a representative? Dear Minister Zdravko Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8406	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So this point, or bill of law, is closely related to the next one and the next one that we are going to do. So I'll just say it here for a second. So the law regulates the following three areas. Therefore, the authorities responsible for the exercise of supervision shall be designated in accordance with the provisions of the EU Regulation of 2014 their division of competence, part-time work and powers. Mechanisms shall also be designed to encourage the reporting of possible or actual infringements of the Regulation to competent authorities and to determine infringements for the conduct of the anti-registration and the amount of fines for infringements to which this Regulation applies, of course. This law also provides for cooperation between the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency and the Croatian National Bank in implementing a regulation within the arrangements governing cooperation between those competent authorities. In the event of the appointment of several competent authorities in charge of implementing the Regulation, one of the designated competent authorities shall be responsible for the coordination, cooperation and exchange of information with the European System of Control and Control of ESMA and other bodies referred to in the Regulation. This law on co-ordination and exchange of information with ESMA and other bodies is responsible for the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. Finally, only the preliminary amendment proposed by the Committee on Legislatives is accepted by the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8407	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The first to hold a debate came the Honorable Representative Leon Žulj on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8408	The Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Parliamentary MPs, MPs. We have before us a legislative proposal that should bring our legislation into line with the EU when we talk about capital markets so far, the Capital Market Act which will still apply one period until all the conditions for the technical proposal to be adopted by July of this year are met. The securities market is extremely important to us at national level as well as at European level because of all of our securities that have been sent not only to our stock markets but also recorded in central securities depositaries and how they are trading in the EU as a whole and harmonising our legal frameworks with European ones in order to enable us to act in harmony with other EU members as well as with us when we talk about capital markets. This also applies to the definition of supervisory bodies, all procedures, mechanisms of regulation and the intentions of the same investigations, when we talk about securities and also the risks that are present, which should be recorded to be transparent business and when we talk about our public debt, our bonds, all securities, shares, cash registers and the like. HDZ, the HDZ Club will support that legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8409	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when we get the conditions on this wheel.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8410	The following is the Final Proposal for a Law implementing the EU Regulation No. 909/2014. The European Parliament and the Council of 23 July 2014 on the improvement of the peace of securities in the EU and on central securities depositories and amending Directive 98/26/EC and 2014/65/EU and Regulation (EU) No BR 236.2012, emergency procedure first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 13 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be made aware of the amendments made by the Committee. Minister Maric, please. Amendment 1 first
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8411	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8412	Thank you very much. Amendment 2?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8413	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8414	Therefore, amendments have been accepted and thus become an integral part. I am voting on the final draft law implementing EU Regulation No. 909/2014. The European Parliament and the Council of 23 July 2014 on the improvement of the peace of securities in the EU and on central securities depositories and amending Directive 98/26/EC and 2014/65/EU and Regulation (EU) No BR 236/2012? Please vote, who's in favour? The vote is over. 104 votes four, four abstentions. I find that most votes have been passed by the Law implementing the EU Regulation. 909/2014. The European Parliament and the Council of 23 July 2014 on the improvement of the peace of securities in the EU and on central securities depositories and amending Directive 98/26/EC and 2014/65/EU and Regulation (EU) No BR 236.2012, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8415	The next item is - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on finality of intent on payment systems and systems for the peace of financial instruments, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 14 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204 and 206 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You took the materials into the boxes. When setting the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the applicant to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 206. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You've received a report. Does he want a representative? Dear Minister Zdravko Maric, here's an additional explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8416	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Therefore, the reasons for amending and supplementing the applicable law on finality of the settlement in payment systems and systems for the peace of financial instruments are amendments and additions to the Directive on the finality of peace. The Finality of Peace Directives are amended and complemented by the 2010 Directive and by the two Regulations of 2012, so these amendments and additions will bring Croatia into line with the EU acquis. In order to ensure safer rules and effective settlements in payment systems and systems for the peace of financial instruments in the EU, these amendments and amendments to the laws will extend the concept of a system in a way that adds certain new conditions to the existing. First of all, that the decision of the competent authority has been taken in the system, the competent authorities within the meaning of this law are HANFA and HNB, that the system has notified ESMA- so I repeat to the European Securities and Market of Capitals Supervisory Authority, the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency shall inform ESMA of the systems for the settlement of financial instruments and the managers of those systems to which the provisions of this law apply and the CNB in payment systems to which the provisions of this law apply. The definition of institutions shall also be extended to the purposes of the amendments and additions to this applicable law, the definition of an instrument of insurance is extended, ESMA and the ESRB should be classified in the definitions as being the European Systemic or Systemic Risks Committee and further regulate the impact of the opening of the insolvency procedure on the recipients of the interoperable system instrument. Finally, instead of the European Commission, the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia and the CNB will notify the European Securities Supervisory Authority by national monitoring and settlement systems of financial instruments. Of course, that provision must be implemented and, of course, the European Commission will be notified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8417	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Leon Žulj applied for the debate in the name of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8418	As we could see in the report that preceded this in the draft law, the derivative is that the Finality Act is also settled in payment systems, systems for the peace of financial instruments. And generally when we talk about risks both of peace and of the financial liquidity of our entire system to define what the rules of the game are when we're talking about trading securities right now. The Croatian Democratic Community Club supports that proposal to bring our legislative framework into line with the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8419	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8420	The final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Finality Act rests on payment systems and systems for the settlement of financial instruments, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 14. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the finality law of the settlement on payment systems and systems for the peace of financial instruments? Please vote, who's in favour? The vote is over. 101 votes for, 2 abstentions and 2 against. I find that most of the votes have been passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Finality Law at rest on payment systems and systems for the peace of financial instruments.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8421	The next item is - Final proposal of the Law on Open Investment Funds to public offering, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 15. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You've received the materials. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 206. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. The Government has submitted an amendment that becomes an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 202. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. We've received reports. Here's an additional explanation, dear Minister Zdravko Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8422	Thank you very much. Therefore, this law will implement the transposition of the 2014 Directive into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. The most important thing is what is governed by this law. Therefore, first and foremost the depositary's obligations in order to further regulate the rules on transactions and liabilities of depositaries involving the storage of funds, the monitoring of cash flows, and the supervision and control of the work of management companies, the requirements for the security of assets held in custody by depositaries or subdepositaries and which must be protected in the event of their insolvency. Liability of depositaries for the loss of financial instruments located in their custody and requirements relating to the protection of assets in the event of insolvency of the subdepositary to which the depositary has delegated custody and the requirements of the depositary's independence in relation to management companies. In addition to depositors' obligations, this law also defines requirements for remuneration policies implemented by Open Investment Fund management companies and balances administrative sanctions that must be made available to the supervisory authority in the event of breach of the provisions prescribed by all open investment funds, or directives which regulate them in order to impose serious violations of the level of fines on Croatian business practices and experience. In addition to this harmonisation with EU directives, the bill amended, i.e. other provisions for which previous practice and experience has shown that there is a need for their more successful and/or more detailed arrangements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8423	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. For the debate he applied for, an individual debate with the distinguished representative Gordan Maras. He's gone, he's lost his right. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8424	The following is the Final Proposal for a Law on Open Investment Funds to Public Offer, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 15. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. Prior to the start of the debate, the Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted an amendment that became an integral part of the final part of the draft law in accordance with Article 202. Rules of Procedure. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be made aware of the amendments made by the Committee. Amendment 1 first and then 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8425	The government accepts Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8426	Amendment 2?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8427	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8428	Thank you very much. So the government accepted both. And I'm sorry, there's a third. Amendment 3?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8429	The government also accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8430	So they become an integral part of the proposal. I vote Final draft law on open-end investment funds to the public? Please vote. Who's in? The vote is over? 103 votes for, 3 abstentions and 1 against. I find that most votes have been passed by the Open Investment Funds Act and by the public offering along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8431	The next item of the agenda is - Final draft law amending and supplementing the General Tax Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 17. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You've received the materials. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 206. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 177. Rules of Procedure. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. The Government has submitted an amendment that becomes an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 202. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Does the minister want it? Here's an additional explanation, dear Minister Zdravko Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8432	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Just three or four sentences. These amendments and additions to the General Tax Code are necessary in order to comply with the Council Directive 2014 amending the Administrative Cooperation Directive, and automatic exchange of financial account data is introduced, including two key elements. Therefore, the Saving Interests Directive is to be put out of force and the automatic exchange of information for financial accounts must be initiated for the tax period from 1.1.2016. The deadline for the delivery of information for 2016 will be 20.9.2017. Data will be exchanged between EU Member States on financial account owners, natural persons and entities, or persons who have control over those entities, their personal identification number, account number, account status or value at the end of each year. In the case of custodian accounts, data on the total gross amount of interest, the total gross amount of dividends and other income obtained from assets in the account will be provided. In the case of a deposit account, the total gross amount of interest paid or credited to the account will be delivered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8433	Thank you. We have a replica of your exposure. Dear Representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8434	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's what we've heard is the intensity of changing the law, the general tax code. I'd just like to add here, or suggest we think about it. I think that would also be important for harmonising with the EU, only one proposal on the issue of deadlines of relative and absolute limitation. For example, in EU countries, deadlines are relative, i.e. in particular, absolute statutes in terms of taxes are about 10 years. So I'm supposed to suggest that we extend the deadline for the relative tax age from 3 to 5 years for absolute from 6 to 10 years. What's the reason? In this way, it would practically prevent an increase in the loss of State budget revenue. So they would certainly increase to a certain extent the revenues of the state budget. And it is a particularly significant argument that the largest number of EU member states has longer deadlines, means relative and absolute. Well, here's what I think would be good if we were to approach and harmonize with these other segments to take that into account, and I think that's an important problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8435	Thank you. Let's move on to the debate. The debate was attended by a respected representative, Ivan Shuker, on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8436	Thank you very much. So apparently one technical amendment to the law, however, in real functioning in the financial world is very important. Because many of these provisions should apply to taxation in Croatia and that the OIB has revived in Croatia then probably some questions should not be asked. But also today, the tax BOOK has been mentioned here, and among other things, the ICCOK was created because of the application of certain provisions that are mentioned in this law. Likewise, when we talk about such topics, the law needs to be fully understood as to how something has arisen and whose powers and who can function. But that Croatia has a system from the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering to the Information System in the Tax Administration that has a lot of data. So, what is crucial in this law is that the taxpayer and other persons who have any information from which someone can or becomes a taxpayer are obliged to inform that information. Because of globalisation, because Croatia has entered one common financial market, this information is very important. Maybe when we talked about amending the Customs Act, we should have repeated the importance of sharing all that information. Because today simply starting with you being able to put your goods in a truck and take it out to any EU country that has not yet been and that is why exports have grown in the Republic of Croatia. This problem used to be different. So today you have an open opportunity and investment and profit gain in some other ways. And if you don't report it in the country of origin, and if the bodies that have knowledge of this automatically do not report to the country of origin, the state budget will be practically cut off. So, apparently one technical topic, the technical correction of the law, but maybe if we discussed this in a different way then maybe some institutions in the Republic of Croatia would talk about it in a different way. 'Cause when we talk about the IRSCO, it's for sure that there's an Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Tax Administration did the lion's part of the job because simply by the authority of the people in the IRS, there were a lot of things they couldn't do. But I'm saying obviously some topics that are primarily practical and professional in taking political notes and then going in the wrong direction. But I say in this whole story we need to read the article of Laws 2 and 4 so many things will be clearer. Therefore, the HDZ Club supports these amendments and additions to the General Tax Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8437	Thank you. We have an individual hearing. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. She's gone, she's losing her right. Second individual debate, distinguished representative Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his right. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8438	The following is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the General Tax Code, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 17. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. Before the start of the debate, the Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted an amendment that became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 202. Rules of Procedure. The amendments were also submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like to ask the Prime Minister's representative to show himself about the amendments to the Committee. Amendment one.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8439	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8440	Amendment two.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8441	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8442	Thank you very much. I therefore vote on the final draft law amending and supplementing the General Tax Law with the amendments that have been adopted. Please vote. Who's in? The vote is over, 103 votes for, 3 abstentions and 1 against. I find that most votes have been passed by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the General Tax Law, together with amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8443	The next item is - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Convention on Centralised Customs with regard to the allocation of national collection costs when traditional own resources are secured for the EU budget, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 20 The proposal is based on Article 85 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You've received the materials. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 206. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You've received reports. Does the Proposer want a representative? Yeah. Dear Zdravko Marić, additional explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8444	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Convention is therefore concluded in Brussels on 10 March 2009, then by 27 countries or EU Member States. Its aim is to ensure the allocation of the cost of payment between EU Member States involved in the implementation of the centralised customs duties remaining after traditional own resources are forwarded to the EU budget by laying down specific procedures in the form of a convention between the Contracting Parties. Let me just remind you, therefore, when customs duties and customs duties are duty-free, Member States shall forward 75% of the total amount of customs duty charged, of course not including VAT excise duties and special taxes, to the general EU budget and, as their revenue, retain 25% of the amounts charged in the name of the collection costs. As two Member States participate in the centralised customs procedure, which generates both countries' costs, this Convention introduces the rules on the allocation of funds of these remaining 25% after the 75% is forwarded to the EU budget. Those funds shall be charged by the Member States in which the customs declaration is submitted and shall pay a part of the costs in favour of the Member State in which the goods are lodged with customs duties. The Convention requires that the remaining part be divided between Member States by half. Therefore, by 50% of the remaining amount, Member States will apply the allocation procedures in accordance with their national rights and procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8445	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Ivan Radic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8446	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The legislative proposal that I will refer to today in short lines is harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation, while a statement of its compliance with the acquis of the EU and the legal acts of the Council of Europe is being submitted in addition to it. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is laid down for the Croatian Parliament to confirm international agreements requiring the adoption or amendment of existing laws. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of Laws on the conclusion and execution of international contracts. Further to learning about the nature of the process of confirming international contracts, which also formally expresses the willingness of the state to be bound by an already concluded international contract and the fact that such contracts cannot be amended by the existing law, the draft law has been sent to the debate and the urgent procedure where the first and second readings are united. The Centralised Customs Convention is just such an international contract based on which we are discussing the adoption of a law on its validation. The Republic of Croatia, as an EU member, should now also formally express its will and willingness to be tied to an earlier defined and concluded international contract. The Centralised Customs Convention concerning the allocation of national collection costs retained when traditionally own funds are provided for the budget was concluded in Brussels on 10 March 2009 by the 27 EU member states. New Member States, including the Republic of Croatia, may become Contracting Parties by laying down with the Secretary-General of the EU Council on ratification, acceptance, approval or accession after completion of the internal procedures necessary for the adoption of the Convention as it is today. The proposed law on the certification of the Convention will enable the Republic of Croatia to apply the redistribution procedure of the reserved costs of the collection of traditional own funds in cases of centralised customs duties equally with other Member States, thereby contributing to the financing of its national budget and also to the fulfilment of financial obligations towards other Member States participating in the centralised customs procedure. Centralised customs duties shall form a form of simplification of customs formalities and shall also allow the separation of the place of customs office where the customs declaration for goods to be placed in the customs procedure from the place of customs office where the goods are physically entered into the customs territory or located, allowing those two places to be located in different Member States and all for the purpose of favouring trade and economic development. It is important to point out that the Convention lays down procedures for redistribution of the costs of payment when traditional own resources are provided for the EU budget and they are mandatory by the Contracting Parties or the Contracting Parties shall be bound to comply with them in the case of centralised customs duties where the customs declaration is submitted in one EU Member State but the goods are physically submitted to customs authorities in another Member State. After joining the EU, the Republic of Croatia took over the obligation and direct application of customs regulations. The relevant rules are directly binding on all Member States which have to implement them in a consistent and uniform manner in their territory. What is important to highlight is the fact that the Customs Law is also... This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] From that date, Member States will be able to authorise the application of the customs institute of centralised customs duty on the basis of the request of economic operators. The law we are talking about today confirms the Convention to make its provisions part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. As a concrete objective, the redistribution of collection costs shall be ensured when traditional own resources are provided for the EU budget between Member States involved in the application and management of centralised customs duties, by establishing specific procedures in the form of conventions between Contracting Parties. Where the customs declaration is submitted for the benefit of the Contracting Party in which the goods are submitted to customs authorities, it shall correspond to the amount of 50% of the retained costs of the payment and the Contracting Parties shall apply the redistribution procedures in accordance with their national law. The implementation of the law does not create specific financial commitments for which additional resources should be provided in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament already discussed the draft law in the capacity of the home body at the 4th session held on 14 March 2016. The Committee noted that in a situation where traditional own resources are the income of the general product of the European Union, Member States are forwarding 75% of the funds charged to the EU budget and, on behalf of the costs of their payments, retain 25% of the amount of funds charged. In the case of customs duties and customs duties, Member States shall forward 75% of the total amount of customs duty charged to the general EU budget and shall retain 25% of the amounts charged in the name of the collection costs as their revenue. The remaining costs relate to the already mentioned redistribution, i.e. they are shared between countries by half. 50% of the retained amount so that both countries receive 12.5% of the amount charged and such a procedure is carried out in accordance with national law. Further to all the above, learn how the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided unanimously with 7 votes to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Convention on Centralised Customs in relation to the allocation of national collection costs when traditional own funds are provided for the EU budget, the HDZ Representatives Club supports the Final Proposal for the Law on centralised customs clearance in relation to the allocation of national charges for those who are detained when traditional own funds are provided for the EU budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8447	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Well, since we were quick, I now declare a break until 3:00 p.m. when we'll continue our work. I'm asking the committee presidents to take care of the dynamics committees. It's 12.27 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8448	The following is the Final Proposal for a Law confirming the Centralised Customs Convention concerning the allocation of national collection costs when traditional own resources are provided for the EU budget, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 20. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law confirming the Centralised Customs Convention on the allocation of national collection costs when traditional own resources are provided for the EU budget. Please vote. Who's in? The vote is over. 101 votes for, 2 abstentions. I note that most votes have been adopted by the Law confirming the Convention on Centralised Customs with regard to the allocation of national collection costs when traditional own resources are secured for the EU budget. Since many things seem to remain open, we will conclude today’s work. We will continue to work on Wednesday at 9.30 p.m. with a point, so we will continue to work on Wednesday 5 May with a final proposal to confirm the loan framework agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe Development Bank for a flood protection project, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 31. Thank you very much. Have a nice weekend, everybody. Session interrupted at 12.25 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8449	Here's a colleague. We're moving on with the session. The next item is point nine - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Special Rights of the President of the Republic of Croatia upon termination of office, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 29. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 85 of the basic Regulation, The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You've received the materials. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that this law, the legislative proposal, be discussed in an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You've received a report. Does the applicant's representative want an additional explanation? Dear Minister Dubravka Jurina Alibegovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8450	Good afternoon, everyone! Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. Allow us to provide an introductory explanation with a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Special Rights of the President of the Republic of Croatia upon termination of office. Therefore, this law, the special rights of the President of the Republic of Croatia, upon termination of his duties as well as one of the special rights allowing for the continuation of the public action of the former presidents on the burden of the state budget, is determined by the right to the office, and by two civil servants, a personal driver and an official personal vehicle for the performance of office tasks. The expenses of the office shall be settled from the resources of the state budget. The 2013 amendments introduced a time limit to the specific rights related to the continuation of public action on the burden of the state budget, and the right to office and related rights with previously recognised permanent law limited to five years after the termination of office. At the same time, the same amendment of the law is to the former president of the Republic of Croatia, who, under the provisions of the previous law, has exercised the right to use equipped office rooms, two state officials to carry out administrative and other tasks necessary for the work of offices, on a personal driver, on an official personal vehicle, and on physical protection in accordance with specific rules laid down to continue the exercise of rights within the same scope, with the possibility of permanent use. This legal provision lays down two different categories of former presidents whose right to office is limited to five years after the end of office and the former president who has determined that the right to use the right to use the office should be continued. The Government of the Republic of Croatia considers that there is no reasonable reason to believe that the right to continue the public action of the former presidents on the burden of the state budget is privileged to the individual former president in relation to the other former presidents, i.e. the future former presidents, and to be assessed as justified and legitimate that the rights of all the presidents, after the end of their duties relating to the continuation of their public action on the burden of the state budget, are ensured within the same reasonable period of time following the termination of their duties. Since the former president who, in accordance with the provisions of the law, has continued to exercise his right to exercise his right to an office for more than five years, the bill proposes to suspend the right to use office premises on the burden of the state budget, as well as to suspend the right to a personal driver and an official private vehicle which is also linked to the work of the office. In view of the rights of the former presidents, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, in its decision and decision of the Constitutional Court of 12 August 2014 on the initiation of the procedure for the assessment of compliance with the Constitution between the other provisions of the amendments and the addition of the Law on the Special Rights of the President of the Republic of Croatia, expressed its position under point 63 of the decision on whether the rights of the former presidents would be regulated by the legislator. He is also left with a decision on the way these rights will be regulated, if he recognizes them. Accordingly, the legislator is free to recognise special rights to the former presidents within a certain range, but is also authorised to restrict them, and to abolish them entirely. This legislative authority shall be based on Article 2(4) of the first indent. The Constitution that prescribes that the Croatian Parliament decides directly and independently in accordance with the Constitution and the law to regulate economic, legal and political relations in the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, under paragraph 64 of the same decision and solution, the Constitutional Court stressed that, in general, whenever restricting or abolishing previously recognised legislator rights, it must have a legitimate objective in the public interest which may justify such a measure, and must respect other requirements arising from the principle of rule of law, legal certainty and legal certainty which were not laid down when such rights were recognised. The government considers that equating the right of all former presidents of the state in relation to the continuation of their public action on the burden of the state budget is a legitimate objective in the public interest which justifies the abolition of the right to use office premises on the burden of the state budget to the former president of the Republic of Croatia, which has already used this right so far over a period of time to which the same right is limited to the former presidents. The proposal for this law also proposes to the former president of the Republic of Croatia, who, in accordance with the law, continued the application of the rights granted, to continue the application of parts of the rights achieved, and thus the right to physical protection in accordance with specific implementing rules on the burden of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia within the same scope, with the possibility of permanent use. The law is proposed to be adopted by emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8451	Thank you. Would the committee's reporters perhaps want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. The first to discuss was the SDSS club, Honorary Representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8452	Dear Mr. Vice President, Ms. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. We understand the proposal's intensity to cut costs in the public and state sphere. And that's certainly something that won't make a big difference between us. But as you can see from the explanation of the motion to amend this law savings in this matter are almost negligible. And, as pointed out in the debate on the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, if this were to be stated, it remains as an explanation of the reasons for the law being passed absolutely certainly on various court cases, this bill would not withstand a constitutionality check. And for that reason let me tell you why my club and I think in this case the thing should have gone differently. First, if parliamentary representatives and parliament will not guard institutions that are necessary in the state, then they certainly do not work in the interests of the state and do not work in harmony with their own interests. The President of the Republic and the institution of the President of the Republic, regardless of who acted and who performed it, no matter which political option it could have belonged to, was an institution that must be respected. And if we won't respect the institution of former presidents, former ministers, the other thing is whether they keep it and whether they're always able to keep it. But the institution of the National Representation must keep it safe. The state within itself must keep its institutional order. And with this bill of law, it doesn't seem. For an amount which is not such as to justify the fact that the former president, who has renewed his duties in two terms, is extremely important and important for the Republic of Croatia and its affirmation, its membership in the EU, its release of mortgages that she has acquired during the years of war and the years of war that were related to things that were not in accordance with both law and morality. One can say that it may not have been good from the perspective of one or another political option, but it was good for Croatia. Another thing I would like to say to the former President Mesic is that he has indeed done very important and useful things with his international activity and continues to do for the Republic of Croatia. And in that sense, it is not reasonable to narrow down or narrow down the space to continue the action, or at least to leave the impression that he is being put into mistrust by this Parliament or by the government. And to us, you'll agree, a lot of images in the world about how we don't trust each other. Today it is Mesic, or yesterday it was Vesna Pusic, the day before yesterday it will be someone third. I think it's just not good and it's bad for the state. And that we won't all be the same political views, that we won't all get along on some of the things that are important to us from our recent history. We don't all look alike at our common past, but we need to find a place in common, in which we will have the opportunity to discuss it and tolerate ourselves rather than shut ourselves down. And especially to do some kind of rematchism. And here in the case of former President Mesic, I don't think of the proposings who are here that they have any intention, the kind of rematchism, or the colleagues from HSLS, or the MOST, but it would be very bad if it were placed in a political context in which it is said that now our five minutes have come, and now we're going to set things right. And for that reason, it seems to me that with this bill of law, we're not going to have as much use as the promoters think we're going to have. We'll only have a whole series of questions and maybe we'll have damage. There are countries that have this kind of practice, there are countries that they don't have, there are solutions that are prescribed, which is that every next president, the former president after former President Mesic will have the right for 5 years and after that, they won't have any more rights but it didn't apply to him and no one has disputed that. And it would have been better if it had stayed that way. This way, at least for a while, it'll cause a debate. I hope the former president himself doesn't have any unnecessary bitterness. And if things get to the Constitutional Court or to the Human Rights Court in Strasbourg, I'm not sure this can survive. But, of course, I can talk about it to people who are much more directed in legal matter than I am. It's the right that's been given and we can't break it by some retroactive decision, especially with this kind of reasoning. And the attempt to do so has reasons and legal reasons, unfortunately, no. If we wanted to introduce all those arguments that could have been heard in public, we would have come a long way to the former president to perform his role as president during the 2nd term, political criticism and so forth. And I'm not going to do it again or I could remember it all, but it's ringing in the air, it's present. I know that the minister and your ministry, your ministry, Madam Minister, doesn't have that in mind. You're trying to interpret the matter as interpreted on one side but that interpretation won't be able to withstand a serious check. I'll be back to square one. Sometimes societies need to break their institutions. It's time they weren't worth it, that they needed to be changed. And 25 years ago, we changed one institution and created another, but over the past 25 years, we haven't institutionalized our country as much as black under our fingernails. Let's argue about authority, argue about valuable and sacred things, but the battle for institutions in the right sense did not take that word seriously. We expected former President Josipovic to lead the battle and lead the battle for the country's institutionalisation, unfortunately he did not. We representatives in the Croatian Parliament have a special responsibility to this, perhaps much greater than others. And don't mind me so much, especially some of my colleagues, whose activities here in the House I particularly appreciate and contribute to the debates both in the Parliament and in the public, but I don't think this proposal is good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8453	Thank you. We have five replicas for this debate. The first is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8454	Thank you very much. A fellow Pupovac, of course, is the minister's intensity and the government's to cut costs, many offices, many agencies, and there we need to give all support and that is basically a reform waiting for us as well as a number of other reforms, amassed public administrations. But you say there's no reason. How to justify, do you remember maybe when Stjepan Mesic told the Croatian citizens of Serbian nationality in the 1990s, he said so on the eve of the Homeland War and told me that they could leave Croatia freely, noting that they could only take the country if they could stand in danger, if I'm wrong, you can correct this quote for me. Do you remember the role of Stjepan Mesic in Australia in the 1990s when we were supposed to make peace in the community without seeing who was which nationality, who was which religion, who was the Ustasha, who was the partisan made him, the Pradid, irrelevant. When the state said increased to NDH, the Ustasha Movement in Australia as checks were given, our diaspora to arm the Croatian Army. So we can't forget things. Now I see you with him at the protest, which is a democratic right to invent some sort of... There is again Stipe Mesic in charge so at the official memorial in Jasenovac, the former president of the Republic of Croatia where our Croatian Government honored the victims he is in a completely different day in a completely different place. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, it's made up, the people are divided, there's some kind of adhesion of the past, they're getting up, I don't know who's making it up. So, if Stipe Mesic hadn't justified his role, I would have just said the same thing and commended this opportunity, given the same thing, and I could use former President Josipovic but he didn't. He could have been and he couldn't have been for five years, and that's why there's one time he needs to tell this man the truth that he hasn't done any harm to the state that Stjepan Mesic is doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8455	Thank you. Replica's response, the esteemed representative, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8456	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Bull, you're one of the ones I was thinking about when I said I appreciated the contributions you have in Parliament and in public. But I'm going to tell you something, if I were to remember everything, and I especially remembered what I've heard, seen or experienced, so I would be the greatest slave of that experience that walks the earth between us here, as there is probably, and among you here, people who, if they remembered it, wouldn't calmly be anything of my freedom and nothing of my ability to judge and we have to reason given what it is today and how it can be. And when I didn't cooperate with people with different experiences and people who said different things and did not just these things that you mention in the case of former HDZ official Stjepan Mesic and later the president of the Republic of Croatia, we would hardly be here where we are. Now let me tell you one thing I think I have to say. In the 25 years of our country's existence as an independent, there are not many people who have that kind of status that President Mesic has and it is our obligation to keep it even when we disagree with him even what he says today or what he said yesterday.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8457	The next replica, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8458	With the right of your colleagues, you ask a question, namely, that this bill, as you have said, you are afraid that there will be no use but that there will be damage. The government suggests that the abolition of this bill will save 600 thousand kuna, so the question is how much it costs to protect the newly protected persons who have become this when we are now protecting two vice presidents and their families. You are asking with the right and question of constitutionality because the Constitutional Court, in its decision of 19.12.2013, of the year which a respected minister speaks, quotes but does not speak of its content. What is the ratio between the changes that the objective is to achieve, where this is, what is the ratio of virtue and protected values. After all, you ask a key question that we are obliged to preserve the dignity of our institutions and people. But I'm afraid we have an old habit of acting like one and many who call themselves greater patriots than others, that other presidents of the state are present or past, acting as humble vassals and at home as superior viziers.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8459	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Dario Hrebak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8460	Dear colleague Pupovac, first I'd like to commend your performance. In fact, this is a topic that usually in the Croatian public always causes great controversy, raised tones and we are glad to discuss it this very sober way today. So I'm going to try not to get in the left, right-hand shooting, but I'm going to try as you defend your thesis as argued, try to defend yourself and some of your thoughts that may not agree with you. Savings, we can say that this is not a kind of savings, that this is not a way of saving. However, I would have to go back eight years to the past when just then President Mesic also announced the savings if you remember that we will save a thousand to two thousand kunas if the honor of the dead defenders is lifted. So, and then there was a demagogue move in my mind for the reason that then on the one hand when the answer was tried to save and explain it by saving, today is talked in another way. I'd like to ask you a question about what kind of state we're gonna be when theoretically we can have three offices of former presidents. Why, for example, is President Josipovic who refused to have such an office, why it is less important than President Mesic, these are some questions I have to ask myself. But most importantly, the most important issue is the question of the authority of former President Mesic. In fact, there's something called state policy, there's something called the current president, there's a fine line between a single government and there's a way President Mesic is leading our country's foreign policy because we still need to consider that he still has a certain impact on the foreign-political, international influence. On the other hand, what is the limit to which he has the authority not to conflict with the foreign policy of the current government. So these are some questions that we have to Consider, consider, and find an answer without getting involved in ideologically left or right discussions. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8461	Answer, distinguished representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8462	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A respected colleague, first of all, as far as the former president's activities and his powers are concerned, are strictly laid down by law and his powers are well known, and if you think of his views, that's something else. I said, with his attitudes, we don't all have to agree and always agree as we shouldn't expect, nor should everyone always agree with our views. But President Mesic, with his activity in the sphere of the economy, including in the sphere of some forms of politics in certain parts of the world and in certain countries, has made a significant benefit for the Republic of Croatia. Whether state policy has always used it in line with the state interests we can talk about. But when it comes to his views, I will return to the contents of the replica I had with my colleagues Bulju. Former President Mesic was a Yugoslav dissident who, due to expressed national ideas, came to the same end as others in prison. He was then a HDZ dissident because of disagreements with certain policies, as others have become after him. He showed independence in politics and political action. And in his term of office, and in his political action, he showed a kind of politics and political ethics that is not to be underestimated, for which he also paid a high price and that goes along with that ethos. And that was a significant factor in Croatian politics, no doubt, and that should be appreciated.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8463	Next replica, distinguished representative Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8464	Dear colleague Pupovac, you've done quite well to expose this to everything you've presented in your speech so far. But I'm interested in one other thing. This country of ours is in such a crisis, in such trouble that we practically live on a loan. We see from everyday life how many people suffer in this country so that only basic things can be afforded to their children and to buy some supplies, while on the other hand we're throwing ourselves away, and I see it here when I come to the Parliament, that hundreds of thousands are considered irrelevant here, that it is, not to say a million kunas and more that cost the state some kind of work that I never see any progress in all this work, in these 25 years. I would accept you, and I would also support perhaps the idea that GDP growth is about 7.8% and not 1%, where we barely live, and I find this inappropriate whether it's Mesic or any of the other presidents. They have their pensions, people are grateful for what they did well, and the people will say whether it is good or not, although I believe President Mesic's latest statements are not appropriate as he said in Jasenovac. I personally think this is an exaggeration and we have to go into rational spending of money in this country and not act like I'm not going to tell drunk billionaires, and in fact everything we live and how we do practically work on credit. And if you consider a million kunas to be nothing, and President Mesic can still work for the good of the state and in some kind of volunteer way, let him have his own protection, but I consider the offices, that kind of money to be thrown into something unnecessary, I personally don't think it's necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8465	Replica's response, the esteemed representative, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8466	Dear fellow Music, this law will save about half a million kunas. If it were a start, and if the end were for all those who had to pay the tax, that all who were to break this country wherever they arrived and wherever they could no longer do it, that all those who had to pay the wages, and not pay them, that all those who needed and that yell the state also, that all those who had to pay the people what they had earned, and not pay them, then I would say not from Mesic but from me. But I don't see it that way, unfortunately. But I don't see it going to be like that! And I don't see a coalition ready to get into that car and do it. But I see another one. I can see that this little state that we have created under the circumstances of weakness and stronger states by more powerful centres of power than most of the countries that exist in the world today. We can see that the state is coming apart. And we're witnesses to that. And we're stuck in that car, and when young people come along like our colleague Sincic and they tell us that's what's happening, we're deaf to it. One who is enough to see the state as just a patriotic story and not as a means for a better life for citizens and their rights might be enough, but it certainly won't be.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8467	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stevo Culej.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8468	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, this is one cut from the book of the late Minister Vekic, a contemporary of Mr. President Mesic, who said: "In the beginning there were three of them, they were in the dark ties of the Upper City and in the dark pubs of Tkalčić, where they were working against the interest of the Republic of Croatia in its most difficult times of the Homeland War and occupied half of Croatia." To speak of Mr. Mesic, a man who had the opportunity to learn from the most important Croatian president of the late Franjo Tudjman, who has succeeded among us Croats, what kind of reconciliation we have made with one common goal, and this is our Croatian homeland, and now 25 years later we are discussing again some new Mesic, a different man who himself said several times was a dissident, where we didn't know which side he was in the interest of who and why he was doing, the man who personally recruited me at Velesim when we came from Valbandon from Plitvice where he also honored us with famous coffees, where he told us about the Croatian state, about the need to fight for the same, so I also reached Australia where I met with the people who gave him those checks and who showed me the videos as he was speaking there, and I asked what representative of Mr. Pupović, did any of the national interest? I don't know. How to protect a man who's always been against someone with his whole life and never for anyone? What kind of man is that? Here, that's enough for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8469	The next debate is on behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8470	Thank you, Vice President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club will be against this legislative proposal because it is unpatriot and what harms the interests of the Republic of Croatia. It explains that it will save 600 thousand kuna. Maybe. We count that the benefits for the Republic of Croatia from former President Mesic's previous action have been far greater. And that saving 600 thousand kunas will do enormous damage to the Republic of Croatia. Could 600,000 kuna have been somehow saved differently? Well, it could have. You could have, for example. insisting that the current president, let the former, that the current president only keeps his promise politically important, the others no one remembers, which is that he will reduce the number of employees in his office and move to the High because it is cheaper. So when you care so much about this savings and the budget of the Republic of Croatia, and you need to care, then you should have insisted on the current president and publicly at least publicly asking public political pressure to do anything else just to keep what she promised. And that it still corrects each other's damage that we don't have a president who's lying. Two things would work. You could have insisted that President Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic pay a donation tax to HDZ because all citizens of the Republic of Croatia must do so, pay taxes, and we have a president who avoids paying taxes to the country to which he holds the presidency. So she paid the donation tax she gave her party there's money in the budget. Well, when you're so worried about the budget that you didn't worry about it that way. What is the task of former presidents of the Republic and this? There are some jobs that the state has to do that can't be done by official policy. For example, there is a UN mission in the Western Sahara, and we have seven of our soldiers there. Since Morocco with which we cultivate good and friendly relations does not recognise the term of the Western Sahara, no current politician in the history of the Republic of Croatia has visited the area and will not even visit it. Because that would damage the relationship with Morocco. It's the job of former presidents. They do it everywhere in the world where this institution exists. It's the kind of business. While we're discussing this, President Mesic is in Moscow, a safety conference. He didn't go to the expense of the Republic of Croatia, it cost us nothing, the organizers paid him that trip. President Mesic has visited so far as former presidents China, Azerbaijan, Turkey, Morocco, South Korea, Germany, Spain, Italy, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Macedonia, Kosovo, India, Turkmenistan and other countries. Each of his visits was informed by the Foreign Ministry and our diplomatic mission there, our embassy. I have not heard and none of you have heard that even one foreign minister has never expressed himself negatively on any of these Mesic missions. No one could object to him. Now I ask you, were his visits useful? If they were useful and you will now abolish them, you will do damage to the Republic of Croatia, you will do damage, unnecessary. Now what are your motives? And HSP Ante Starcevic went with this initiative then pulled it when the government came with its own. People who received preferential votes less than President Mesic shakes hands with people by noon. By noon he shakes hands with more people than those in HSP received preferential votes. But out of pure perversion, that's when something that's small and insignificant wants to make a mistake for someone who's bigger and more important than them and then they propose laws like this. And they, with their own existence, are offended by it, and it troubles them, and it stings them like a rock in a shoe. Why? Because by example, they show by their size how miserable and miserable they are. I can't forgive him for that. I can't forgive him for that. They are also disturbed by his antifascism, including his messages in Jasenovac and on all other occasions. They can't make peace, neither you nor this government, you can't make peace with that antifascism. You will try to disable anyone who propagates antifascism. The President of Parliament gave me a warning here, reproof when I asked questions about anti-fascism because he couldn't handle it, he just couldn't take it. You're such a government. And then when Mesic tells you there he who sings Ustasha songs, who raises Ustasha banners, who wears Ustasha signs, who denies Ustasha crimes is the Ustasha. How can you stand it? Because if you would accept that, then you wouldn't be able to have those ministers in the government that you have. So this is a law that's cruel, malicious, almost private, it goes ad-hominem, it goes to the former president's institution, it goes directly against Mesic because you can't stand it because it's bigger and more important than you'll ever be to live 500 years. He was the mayor of Orahovica in socialism but not on the Communist Party's list of Communists, but on his list, the civil list. The first dissident mayor of Orahovica, a political prisoner, Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, the last president of the Yugoslav Presidency, President of the Croatian Parliament, president of the Republic of Croatia in two terms, a difficult mandate. When will any of you achieve one tenth of that? When. ... When? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] When will you be such a person? When will you be such a person? When are you going to be these people to invite you from all these countries of the world that I've listed? When? Never. And just because it's never gonna be now you're trying to disable it. We changed this law in 2014 and limited it to 5 years but, of course, by respecting the principles of law, we left it to Mesic because the laws must not act retroactively but you are not interested in it. This will probably experience a constitutional suit when you vote, I don't know how the Constitutional Court will react, but logic, legal logic requires that laws are not passed retroactively. And you know it, so you're not so ignorant, you know it, but you're deliberately bringing it in because your wickedness is greater than your mind. Your desire to harm him is greater than logic, she's simply inconceivable. You'll do damage to the Republic of Croatia, it doesn't matter, you don't care if you can still harm Mesic on the way. And that's your only interest, your only reason. Let's get some more on the hypocrite. Let's imagine if President Tudjman were alive and was the former president, would HDZ dare think this would end the office of the former President of the Republic of Tudjman? And dare to think. I think that in the morning, if someone thought they'd go straight to check in, themselves and say, "Look at me, this morning, a sinful thought was born, a dangerous thought." You're hypocrites, you're just hypocritical, and you're incredibly big because not everyone to you, for you doesn't mean anything to the president's institution, you mean a person to you. Look at me, let's change the Constitution and elect a president in Parliament. It doesn't take them five years, then it's a completely protocol figure that has no other authority or authority or anything, it represents a protocol country. Then it doesn't take five years or an office or anything because the role of Prime Minister is much greater than the role of President of the Republic which is protocol. But as long as you do it, until you're ready to do it so don't be so mean, so mean and so hypocritical. I personally believe that every President of the Republic should go to the Constitutional Court when his duties are complete. He should be waiting for a seat in the Constitutional Court. So give two terms and there which are eight years or for life I don't know, a matter of agreement but it's a lofty place for someone who's been directly elected this once and for all. Now, until you do, as you arrive, we expect the reforms you promised, we wait for, such reform laws, and this is your reform seems to be the only one you can come up with, except that you will increase the working period or the retirement age to 67 years and increase the cost of additional health insurance and abolish the Mesica office. It's the only thing you know, it's your reforms, that's what you promised and that's what you execute. Poor, really pathetic. I don't think it's gonna go that bad in all of this. To him, the Alliance of anti-fascist fighters will certainly offer an office in their rooms and I think he should invite citizens to finance it, that office of his. So when the government of the Republic of Croatia will not be ashamed of its shame, there will certainly be enough citizens who appreciate President Mesic far more than these poor people who propose such a poor, tragic law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8471	There's a report of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Margareta Majeric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8472	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A fellow representative injured the Rules of Procedure, Article 238 of the century 6, with his conduct he deviated from the general rules of conduct in the Croatian Parliament, and with his exposure he hardly insulted the institution of the President of the Republic by saying that the president was lying. I think it is inadmissible that as the highest House, the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament should not be used in such a dictionary, as much as the president of the Republic of Croatia has saved millions from the budget, has reduced the number of advisors who are state officials and introduced consultants who are volunteering. What I can understand is the frustration of Stazic, who did not beat their candidate, who would not spend the money he received from the state budget on humanitarian purposes as the current president of the Republic did, but these frustrations a fellow representative must be treated elsewhere and not in this House of Commons.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8473	Replica, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8474	Comrade Stazic, in the first we were, we said, needs a president, a president in this case to keep his promise, I would agree that he should keep his promise, so whoever gives it to him, whether it's about moving or anything. However, when you honor the former president, we are not here to increase or reduce the former president, but to be equal with all future presidents of the Republic and so far, so here is Ivo Josipovic not using the right of those five years, why would Stjepan Mesic be for life? Of course, it is clear that it is a savings and when you defend Stjepan Mesic, you list everything, you forget the same thing in the 90th year when the reconciliation and the sons of Partizan and Ustasha were needed to create Croatia free together, when it was the NDH and the Ustasha movement, is that what it is? You give him a round of applause, and today it's a whole other day. Today on the same wings only shares the people as inventing Fascists, who is Fascist, you want the word that I am Fascist, or one of us here who went as children to the Homeland War, defend the Croatian state, and the same other people have defended their work in other places, inventing, dividing the people. Why? That's the only way to survive on this political market, so division. Now we're talking to ourselves, but later in a certain exhibition of everything that Stjepan Mesic as president of the Republic, as far as he brought in, contributed to the Republic, it takes good time, it takes time, because of that and of course you forgot to visit North Korea, with this leader of theirs, you forgot to say the same thing, that he was also visiting at the expense of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8475	Replication response, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8476	So, President Mesic, you say you're celebrating the NDH and the Ustasha movement. I don't think the entire Croatian public sees President Mesic as a prominent anti-fascist and opponent of the Ustasha Movement. If he once made a statement in Australia, he later gave up those statements and certainly changed his views. You say there's fascists everywhere. He doesn't see fascists everywhere, he sees fascists where they are. Look at their fascist and Ustasha activity and just call it that. Let the Ustashas stop acting, they certainly won't see them. You're saying I'm celebrating the president, no, I didn't glorify him, I just counted what he was doing. You're saying we should even the presidents, I agree. All presidents need to have the same relationship, so if the former president agrees, then I'd tell him, former president, you're a liar. And when the current president's lying, then I'll tell her, Madam Representative, every time you tell her, you lie, you lie. Because you said you were going to move to Viosk, and you didn't move, so you agreed. You said you'd reduce the number of employees in your office, and you're not, so you're lying and now you're looking again for a breach of the Rules of Procedure and I'm going to repeat this to you again, so no matter how many times you're looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I'm going to say that the President... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8477	You're giving the line to the Bull, not the Bull. ... Steve Culey, next replica. [[- Intruder Shuker, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8478	Dear Vice President, I can't believe I'm being told that I'm going to sit here and listen to this nebulose, so I would never come here, believe me. I'm gonna get nervous about some things here. I'm not in the war where I went from Vukovar to Dubrovnik, there's nothing I haven't seen, there's nothing I haven't done. But the things I listen to here, so I feel so miserable, pathetic, small, incompetent, uneducated, ignorant, and I don't know what to do with the size of a light, honor, beauty of Mesic. I could go to Miss's choice. I don't know if we're talking about the same person? Well, that's a mystery, yeah. This man, so he seemed to me like some heir to Tito, and after Tito Tito, she was the parole I remember when he, when his leg was cut off. That's how he goes along the same path as his Tito. It goes through the unclassified, it collects and where no one wanted it or has grown since when no one wanted it and guesses some jobs. So if he's so committed, he's for something or someone he works for, but he doesn't work for Croatian interests because he didn't work for them here either, at least not for one part of Croatia. One's watery, the other's diabolical. But let's have a nice man open up a company, a company, register, pay the VAT, so he can work for himself, so he'll be through the VAT. Thank you very much. Went a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8479	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8480	You say listening to what's being said here in the House makes you feel miserable, miserable and small. I think your feeling is completely justified. You say if you knew what you'd hear here so you'd never come to Parliament. Well, that would be best.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8481	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Blaženko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8482	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I have thought about it in this Rules of Procedure, perhaps sometime, or not sometimes, but when the representative Stazic is exhibiting the replicas of as much time as he is exhibiting, because I have recorded here, with the insult of the official institution of the Republic of Croatia, he directly told 21 lies in just 12 and a half minutes 21 lies. What his subjective mentality means can be classified with that Facebook message from yesterday about the distinguished guest we got, today we had here in Croatia, and sent by his party colleague we really didn't. But as for the President's Office, the former president, he can really, and I agree with you to finance from, say, a dozen of those money that went missing from Australia or got lost somewhere or fell in the ocean, one of three lives can be financed, and there won't be any problems. Furthermore, it's really hard to answer my fellow Trainer because 21 lies are really too much in two minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8483	Thank you. Replication response. Please be quiet, allow the MPs to deliver their opinions.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8484	Gone, forgot to turn off the microphone. And, uh, someone else turned it off. Okay. So he says he's having a hard time answering. He seems to be having a hard time listening to the answer, because he replicates and then runs away. There is not so much civil courage or representative responsibility that at least he hears the answer to his unfavorable replica. He says I told 21 lies in 11 minutes, that's two and a half minutes. And he didn't tell me one thing I lied about. What was I lying about? He didn't tell a single lie. And he says that Mesic in Australia took some money, stole some money. So why didn't he file criminal charges against Mesic if he was sure of it? And if he doesn't press charges and if he hasn't raised her, then he's just an ordinary slanderer. You MPs who left the assembly because you didn't have to have the ability or character to listen to the reply to the replica. You're a slanderer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8485	The next is the distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8486	Thank you. Well, fellow Stazic, I would say at first that, that is, enough of your moral interest here in the Croatian Parliament. Indeed, you are not the one who should teach us some moral lessons in view of everything done in the past, but also given the fact that you glorify and support the crimes committed on the naked island. Unfortunately, you did it as vice president of the Parliament and I was ashamed at that point. You've justified it, probably the SDP also supports it and it's your policy and you're still doing it. As for the former president's office, another former president said at one point that it would be necessary to expect something from him. So it would be necessary to expect something from that first former president. He didn't expect anything, probably all of us today and in the future we won't expect anything, so he said it all through that one sentence. As far as SDP's views are concerned, we also heard 2014. Ivo Jelusic, on behalf of the club, says: "We should in some way strive to do so, so we do that to make a bit of a rough caste of political, privileged people less and less caste." So, not for life, but for five years, and that's just fine. Here, that's 2013, so by 2018, that would somehow come out. However, the Constitutional Court has removed it, and now we're moving on. And now we come to this story of Ustashas. That's terrible! When Fred Matic and Ante Kotromanović sing Jura and Bobana it is for society, when Mr Mesic celebrates the uprising there in the '90s it was due to inexperience, so he immediately became anti-fascist, the great anti-fascist you say the largest in Croatia. When Peja Grbin sings Chavogs, it's because he was a little drunk. So it seems to me after this debate of yours that there are still people here who are under gas and then are having such a fine debate about really one law that needs to be abolished, it just needs to be abolished.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8487	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8488	You are now trying to convince the public that Kotromanovic, Fred Matic, Mesic, Pedja Grbin are the big Ustashas. That's what you're trying to convince the citizens... Don't throw it away, hold on a second. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You're trying to convince the citizens and you're hoping the citizens will believe in your intelligence. You're hoping. I don't know what you're building your hope on. I don't know how many times you'd have to repeat it, and how convincing and what intelligence would have to be given to that person who could trust you with one single word, one single letter from that statement of yours. You say there was Jelusic against the caste of privileged people when we changed this law. Well, I am, too, against the caste of privileged people, I am. And an example against the fact that by increasing the vice president of the government, everyone gets insurance and spends more on the budget. And it's a caste of privileged people. I don't see you rebelling against them. And we limited this in 2014 to 5 years, we limited, our parliamentary majority but as I said and we stick to the legal principles if something achieved is right then it cannot be abolished afterwards. All you can do is cut the pro futuro. Now, when you realize that, then you will realize that Mesic, Kotromanović, Matic and coat of arms are not Ustasha.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8489	The last replica, the esteemed representative Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8490	My colleague, I will fully understand when you say this that you need to protect the interests of the president and that these money is being allocated to the president so that he can travel the world. I understand you because I see that for 20 years about, I don't know, you've been sitting in this House, getting good pay, not working, and you don't actually have money. To the Croatian people, money is a problem. And as far as I know, for every parliamentary representative, the party gets 30 thousand kunas, so when you respect it so much and you love it so much from your party, take out so much money and fund the president. And what you said the president didn't fire people in Pantochaka, I don't know exactly, but here's thank God people are working, and I think they get that money and they have to live on something. The second thing, in order to end it is about 100 salaries in gross of 10 000 kuna, it is not small, and whoever loves it and who thinks he works for him at the end can enter your party and you very well finance it from your money. Unfortunately, I think it should be reduced. And to me and to all the parties that this people could live in a crisis like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8491	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8492	As a matter of fact, the money for President Mesic's travels is not set aside first. You have no idea how his office works. He doesn't finance his travels with one single budget lip. All his travels are funded by those who call him, so hosts. Therefore, when you talk about something in the congregation, you would need to be informed so as not to talk at least that people do not laugh at you. You're saying the president's office has to live on something so she hasn't cut the number. So what did she promise to cut the number? So did I tell her to promise? Did I ask her to do that? Well, I guess she knew those people were getting paid before she made that false promise. Or do you, Mr. Muscle, claim she didn't know? Did she know that people work there for wages? So if she knew they were working for pay and she promised to cut the number of employees, then I guess she also knew that those people would stop getting paid. That makes sense. And now the last thing you say is that I've been sitting here for 20 years doing nothing. I've been sitting here for 20 years doing nothing?- I'm sorry. That's what you said. Well, one of the most active representatives, not 20 but 16, will be 20, and I hope that your activity will be a hundredth of my activity not in the quality of exposure but at least in quantity.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8493	The next debate is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8494	... fellow MPs and colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] Indeed, there is a question in Croatia why this size is being arranged, why such agencies and why the office of former President Stjepan Mesic is outside the box for 5 years, which all presidents are entitled to so far and future. And we must point out that former President Ivo Josipovic did not use that privilege and saved it means 5 years of office before this. Here's Stjepan Mesic, here's the debate, and I'm going to say immediately on behalf of the MOST Club that we will accept this proposal from the Government and will continue to remove unnecessary things in the Republic of Croatia that are exclusively using themselves or visiting Kim Sun Jong in Korea. When we talk about former President Stjepan Mesic, Stjepan Mesic was also president three times. He also signed amendments to the Law on Conversion in '92, '93. And '94. A year. Also the Law on the Croatian Privatisation Fund '92. Amendments and additions to that law in '93. A year. We don't know why he didn't object in one word at the time, objected to conversion and privatisation. In fact, he himself tried to take part in the game through a strip of cement, but he gave up when she appeared in the media. The president's office, Stipe Mesic, provided 8 thousand intelligence documents and 4000 pages of various transcripts to the Hague prosecutor's office. And it was not state-owned but private co-operation with The Hague because the basis of the Constitutional Law on the co-operation of the Republic of Croatia and the International Criminal Court in The Hague was the state co-operation of documents and could similarly be achieved through the Government's Office on Co-operation with The Hague. This can be confirmed by Orsat Milenić, I'm sorry he wasn't who he was at the head of that office at the time. It is interesting that The Hague of these thousands of illegally obtained documents collected several hundred of those who were interesting and asked the government to declassify them. And instead of immediately investigating who the state documents were illegally delivering to The Hague the then government headed by Ivica Racan's documents has dequalified. Documents she knew The Hague had come to her illegally. Stipe Mesic was in '97, '98. was also a Hague witness. And that's not such a problem. Even what he said there remains on his soul. His apologists will look from their corners and say that his valuable courts of Stjepan Mesic in The Hague are true, his opponents that they are a lie. Some will call it treason. Although I personally believe that a series of lies have been given in this testimony, this can be debated in democracy. And that's why we shouldn't have the same attitude. But one thing is irrefutable, Stipe Mesic was years ago and after becoming president of the Croatian people he lied about testifying in The Hague against Slavko Dokmanovic, who was the mayor of occupied Vukovar, which is only partly true because Stipe Mesic was in The Hague as a witness to the indictment against Croatian General Tihomir Blaskovic for killing even though it was incontrovertible truth for years. What kind of countryman lies to his people? Today, when much is said and written about the threat of the truth and the freedom of the media, it would be immoral to say that because of the discovery of the truth about the testimony of Stjepan Mesic in The Hague, a number of Croatian journalists were persecuted and... like. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Josip Jovic was even imprisoned. Then why was that kept quiet? Why is he keeping quiet about this today? A criminal application has been filed for illegal dealing with state documents against Stjepan Mesic. As evidenced by this video, which has been played many times on television, the footage of foreign journalists entering the archives of the Presidential Courts, Pantovac, from it as a self-service, carrying envelopes with state codes of secrecy. Listen well, secrets from the Homeland War, documentation is made by foreign journalists, a few years after the war, and they come out of self-service. Of course, criminal charges were rejected with an explanation of how... The fact on the envelope is not found, it is not found in the archives of the President of the Court standing the mark of secrecy does not mean that there are secret documents in the envelope. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When comparing the president's lies, we should certainly remind ourselves of the Clinton-Lewinn affair. It wasn't the American Congress that discussed the recall of the American president for what Monica Bill did in the oval office, but because Bill lied to the nation that it never happened. But what is allowed to Stjepan Mesic in Croatia is not Bill Clinton in America. Do you remember Stjepan Mesic telling Croatian citizens of Serbian nationality on the eve of Homeland work? He told them that if they were dissatisfied, they could leave Croatia freely, noting that they could take the land with them as far as they could stand. And if someone can deny me, or maybe I'm wrong, do you remember when they were celebrating the Ustasha movement and the NDH in Australia when they bought checks or I was wrong, or can someone deny me? Do you remember Stjepan Mesic where totalitarian not anti-fascism celebrates, we must share it, so World War II and the anti-fascist movement, where it celebrates communism under totalitarian features such as the totalitarian feature of the letter "U" is also a five-point star. As President of the Republic, he starred at five-point speeches and invented various advices exclusively shared by the people and attempted to divide the people into divisions of World War II. It means words and two about construction. After he stopped being president, Stjepan Mesic bought two large apartments in the elite part of Zagreb, of course, what is possible. First he wouldn't tell him where the money came from and then he said he'd borrowed it from one of his friends when he got it back. This friend publicly confirmed that he really gave the money to Stipe Mesic. Now to the side of hundreds of other thousands of people who can't borrow a few million kunas when they return. But it's interesting that this very friend in which Stipe Mesic borrowed the money for the apartments had the same name and last name as a gentleman mentioned as a lobbyist in the "Patria" affair. I don't know, is this about the same person? So if anyone knows, especially if it's the same person, let them say that bad people wouldn't get the wrong conclusions out of everything. Stjepan Mesic, when he became president of the Republic of Croatia, immediately insulted the former president, the first Croatian president, founder of the Republic of Croatia, Dr Franjo Tudjman, with ugly statements, compared him with Slobodan Milosevic, that I do not even quote now, I cannot even bid. It's just that one can't get out of the country and the other can't get out of the country. He insulted the former president with whom he was an associate, from whom he was to learn when the Republic of Croatia headed by Dr Franjo Tudjman and Croatian defenders. Stjepan Mesic and now at the memorial ceremony in Jasenovac although the state pays him to go out in a special group and does not leave with the official work of the government, for what? Because he wants to divide the people ideologically, so he wants to continue to manipulate the Croatian people. Since MOST will support this proposal, I also have an amendment to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Special Rights of the President of the Republic of Croatia following the termination of its duties, the Final Proposal for a Law in an emergency procedure, that this amendment, the amendment, is subject to the entry into force of this law on the first day of its publication in the National Journal. Article 3 is also amended as follows: ‘I repeat this law to the effect of the first day of publication in the NN because of these time-consistency, but it will not until 1.6 if it does not happen, that there will be no first May due to a small amount of time. Once again, all future presidents, all state officials can help the Republic of Croatia. And the tribune to respect them. But someone has an office on the burden of citizens for life, so anyone's wrong. And again, I repeat a positive example, if Ivo Josipovic could tell me it doesn't take five years for the former president's office, why the life-long office of Stjepan Mesic, which the MOST has given the view that this proposal from the Ministry, we adopt and hope the ministers will remove countless offices, agencies that are unnecessary and only created for the entanglement of political elites. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8495	Thank you. This debate has caused a lot of replicas. The first one is a respected representative of Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8496	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Bulj, this particular debate has proved that the intensities of this law are not what it says in the light of the law, and that is one small reform that you are offering, which is to abolish the office of the former president, namely to specifically abolish President Mesic's office on the grounds that it will mean that through this abolition, 600 thousand kuna will be saved which we welcome in the HNS any savings that can be done and that all agencies in this country reduce their costs. However, it is clear from your presentation that the intensity of this law is not that but that the intensity of this law rematchism towards the person of Stjepan Mesic as former president of the Republic of Croatia. And it would be minimum minimum for you to be honest with the public and say that's the case. And along with Stipe Mesic, you could charge him with high treason, you could prosecute him, etc. That way, get him off the political scene. This way is on your side, on the side of the Most populist, and on the side of those who support you the HDZ is remandist. That's why it would be fair for you to tell us here that it is so, not in the first sentence that you tell us that you are going to reform your savings and then after you explain why you're actually cutting off Stjepan Mesic's office.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8497	Replica response, distinguished representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8498	You say you're sorry. In fact, I'm sorry that you haven't carried out the reforms in the companies, the agencies while you were in power, so, for example, In HEP, we don't have two directors now, one of your former president's best man, and now the second best man, and now we have to pay the former godfather a million kuna, HEP, so that's an example of the reforms that have done a lot more damage than the offices themselves. However, I don't know why you've just called that here because of some HDZ influence or someone has influence, why? Well, HDZ was very mimicking Stjepan Mesic, not exactly in bad relations was Stjepan Mesic and Ivo Sanader at the time. We can't confirm now that Sanader didn't exactly support Stjepan Mesic being prominent at the time, so we don't have to complain about that. Of course we can express our views, the democratic way and the domo... as he presented everything that Stjepan Mesic did not do in the interest of the Republic of Croatia in preserving the interests of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's my right and I have the right to state, no offense, allowing any of you to discuss it. It means, but the Most Independent Lists will be held, and I hope that the Minister will present it as soon as possible these days, that the reforms will be carried out on your not knowing grief or joy, and I certainly will not behave as your party has acted in recent years on commercial grounds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8499	Next replica, distinguished representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8500	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Bulj, this was in the best manner of North Korean television, and you could really perform on their main diary because this indictment in this House has not been heard for a long time. So this only confirms what is being done all the time and says that MOST has something personal, political against President Mesic and that this is just one mask with which you want to get I don't know where the political points are because making this law is a question of whether it will withstand the constitutionality test because and when the amendments to the law were passed then very clearly the constitutional experts said that the law can't be retroactive, that the law cannot apply to the rights that have been acquired. After all, the Constitutional Court has already ruled that when we talk about the pensions of parliamentary deputies where the Constitutional Court has made it very clear that the law cannot abolish previously acquired rights. But clearly, you can rape as well as here we have one law that stands on the agenda, which is counter-constitutional. An explanation of the law that says that 600 thousand kuna will be saved, that it remains a physical protection for the former president. And that physical protection costs money, too. Therefore, everything is transparent, and you have clearly discovered what it is and you know very clearly in that fable when that young boy says the emperor is naked. So you've made it very clear here, so why do you want to cancel the office, to prevent the former president from being a public figure, or to speak. But you won't stop him. He will continue to speak, and this will remain written that President Mesic first staged HDZ there in the mid-1990s, and is now being delegated by the Most. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8501	The answer to the line Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8502	Comrade Mrssic, you have not denied anything. I wish you'd brought out whether Stjepan Mesic denied me, sang Ustasha letters, celebrated the NDH 1990s, and you obviously supported it. Did he tell the Serbian people that he would take to Serbia only what was on top of them. I don't know where you get the right to say I'm just the facts. So, what Stjepan Mesic was saying. Stjepan Mesic and now continues to share the people. A few days ago in Jasenovac was an official government, meaning official in the government's organisation to honor victims in Jasenovac. Stjepan Mesic, if for three days, is once again shown some sort of adhesion of the past. Why? Because he wants to share the people. And on that platform he stays in politics. I am personally and MOST against it. We are today as the Homeland War at reconciliation has arisen regardless of the non-idological worlds, that we all try to create a better future together. It may not suit you, but admit that Stjepan Mesic has been sharing the people all along, making fun of the former president of the Republic. I can't even tell that joke about Milosevic comparing Tudjman or how ugly he told it. And you justify it, you're saying that this is a speech, not your speech I think this replica of yours is North Korean style. One mind is never good. Let's democratically discuss the facts I've said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8503	The next replica, the distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8504	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Comrade Bulj, you have saved us the time that we first agreed that in this law the opening word is not given by the minister but by you that we know immediately what we are on. So, I support my colleague and colleague who previously told me your statement on behalf of the club has revealed in fact the right side of the story and the populist and remandist towards the former president. And it's been tried through two, three sentences that you've said to wrap it up somehow that that's part of our reform package and some kind of savings that you're really up for. My colleague Bulj, when you and your colleagues and colleagues from MOST start saying the word reform, it sounds pretty messed up already. Because from the word reform that stands behind it, you haven't done anything in the last few months, you're already going with a bill like this. You swear on your savings. A colleague of Bulj, who did not raise his voice when Vice Presidents Petrov and Karamarko for the first time in such functions received protection from them and their families. Did you then wonder how much it cost taxpayers a year, citizens? You're saying there's some 600,000 kuna savings here. So you have calculated how much such insurance costs, nearly three and a half million kuna for two gentlemen of Vice President Petrov and Karamark so they can drive as a protected person, have a cop in protection and their families. Who's protecting them from? From who? The specific Regulation has been adopted. That's when the savings weren't on your mind. You think that's quite all right, and here you're selling the jokes to us here in the Parliament and the citizens about how you're pushing for reform and savings. Come on, buddy Bull, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8505	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8506	My fellow Members, again, have not denied me in any argument that meant being presented during the time the president was active, President Mesic with the former president, the office, any arguments other than political co-locations. Some sort of rematchism absolutely none... Most people in the Parliament decide. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I wish you'd made the reforms in Plan 21. Unfortunately, the only plan is that you owe 100 billion kuna to the Republic of Croatia. In these 100 billion kunas we have 300 thousand unemployed, we have 320 thousand completed and we have the meaning of 300 billion kuna debt, and you are only 1/3. I'm sorry you didn't make reforms, and I'm glad that you simply had your coalition partners in the form of HNS that you very easily negotiated, ripped up certain things. So, all the time you've been mentioning some sort of rematchism. Of course we need to talk here, if the office needs a former president of the Republic like I said, Ivo Josipovic did, and I note once again that he saved 5 years of the president's office which is huge money. For five years he was Stjepan Mesic and all future presidents will be five years old. Which is why we now raise Stjepan Mesic to the expense of, say, Ivo Josipovic or the future former president. You just focus, and you didn't deny me that he sang Ustasha letters, that he was excelling in NDH, that he was glorifying totalitarian regimes, the star. But not once, but in either of you, but at no time do you share the Croatian people, to celebrate totalitarian regimes than you do, it must not be said why. That's because Don't be nervous. [[Adversity Sanader: Please do not communicate with each other.]] This is one democratic debate and procedure and everything will be okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8507	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8508	Thank you very much, Mr. Bull. In your presentation you showed essentially that you should not behave in the Republic of Croatia and what it looks like when someone accidentally comes into that position because he thinks that he can do anything and give his personal sympathy or non-sympathies and arguments which are most often subjective to the way in which he naturally allows the senior partner no'. Because you wouldn't be able to do this if HDZ didn't like it. It means that HDZ wants to protect the former president then certainly wouldn't have given it to one MOST to perform in this way because then they would have had the opportunity to react five times to what you didn't react to with the legal proposals. Not to mention the mass of things you've announced that you're going to suggest and you didn't suggest. So he let you HDZ play with Mesic. This is the only reason why this law is passed, and this is something that the government in Croatia should not behave. You said in one sentence that you were passing the law to save the creation after that point. Afterwards, everything about former President Mesic is like the law being passed here for his sake and not for future situations and savings. You spent 14 minutes explaining Mr. Mesic's career and his shortcomings. Well, that's not what this law is about. I guess that's not why you're passing the law. Obviously, that's why you want to deal with man and demagogue to show people that you've saved something and made a reform. And if you have any plans, please tell me now in reply to the replica what other offices and unnecessary agencies you're going to lift. That would mean you have a plan and some solutions. Here's if you don't tell any agencies now that you're going to shut down, and no office means that you've performed exclusively demagoguely, populistly, and that's because HDZ has given you a little bit of play.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8509	Replica response, distinguished representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8510	I'm sure we won't be acting like you. And we certainly won't be investing in the funds of the ministries to say that it's going around the HTV as you did on a daily basis, and today you haven't answered how much of your ministry's funds were spent to advertise you all day long, you with those spinning points, how you push Croatia forward and 100 billion kuna you are and five years it's back. Therefore, you have not killed any arguments in this debate. I repeat again, is Stjepan Mesic... '90s. The year when reconciliation of the children of Partisans and Ustasha was needed, did he sing Ustasha songs, did he glorify the NDH when the checks were bought? [[You don't understand.]] That's what you didn't give me the denials, I wish you had, and things like that. Did Stjepan Mesic open an office in Pantovac to protect those documents from war in other countries for 70, 80 years. He's the one who let ordinary journalists record those documents. It's a threat to national interests. I obviously wanted to show this a little bit how no national interests are being protected. 5 years has been enough and too many, but such is the law, and so all future presidents, former and present, and that is it. Of course you didn't make any arguments. And the agency, as far as you've put your provisions, you and the HDZ will need good reforms to disband it. Half of them, out of 100, so 50% is without purpose and purpose. Well, you'll soon have a minister who's competent... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8511	Please don't throw from the bench to the MP, let's listen to each other. The next replica is the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8512	Dear fellow of all reforms we see only here in the work of transforming Mesic or his office because you do not like him. You don't like what he's saying. And this is not a story about Mesic or Ivo Josipovic or the late Franji Tudjman, this is a debate on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Special Rights of the President of the Republic of Croatia upon termination of office. But you've been talking about Mr. Mesic all along. And do you know, you did notice a colleague that we ended the debate today at 12.20 nothing caused this debate to happen because we had to move into the morning and to discuss this through the morning rather than at night, so that there was not much to be seen and heard. And you're so hearty, you're defending it because the HDZs don't even do it. You're obviously still unorthodox to this constituency agenda, manipulation of the agenda. After all, this and such Mesic, where you practically spent the whole debate in the debate to issue a warrant against the former President Mesic and the kind of people you chose in parallel twice. And you see what HDZ was saying when this proposal was formed in 2004, which they explain is exactly what they were supposed to talk about how they explain the law that you now want to abolish. It is precisely to ensure the performance of professional administrative tasks and to ensure that all personal contacts are ensured and that the responsibilities of the President of the Republic of Croatia are maintained. So we here have to talk about institutions, it's democracy. That institutions work in all personnel combinations whether you like them or not. So the original man in the original cave community was thinking about pictures when he saw something. We must rise up, think in general, so whether in a particular situation we like a political constitution or not. So let's get away from the imagery and what's in our heads and think in the interest of strengthening institutions. Because one hospital can experience something that we don't like, and then we won't destroy the hospital and take it down because you don't like President Mesic himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8513	Replica response, distinguished representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8514	It is not a question of liking or not liking, of course why I am talking here about the office of the former President of the Republic of Stjepan Mesic, because he is the only one who has the right to live for life outside of all means both present and future presidents. And of course we'll discuss it and of course this is one clear message. You mentioned in 2004 what HDZ, HDZ, Ivo Sanader and Stjepan Mesic said. They were very close to each other, and they really cooperated on all matters and therefore society was brought here where in the conduct of.../The speaker was understood./..., from arrest, location, transfer, etc., they were on the same meaning of the road. So I wouldn't even explain it much, but you didn't, again, I'm sorry to have denied anything I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8515	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8516	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. When a constitutional suit is filed for this law, the one writing a constitutional suit must not add anything but a transcript of Mr. Bulj's presentation. He made it very clear that what the government wrote in the explanation had nothing to do with the reasons for the abolition of the former President of the Republic's office and nothing else should be argued in the lawsuit. So the unconstitutional nature of this law is to this extent obvious because without any shame and shame as a jest to common sense, the abolition of the former president's office of justice with the cost of 600 thousand kuna and in fact you've honestly told us what it is. And this amendment of yours will save another $11506 and 84 June, because seven days before it will come into effect than on the 8th day of the People's Newspaper, so explain the same thing when it comes to savings. And now I have little time to answer your question about President Mesic and the glory of the NDH. A quote: "We won twice and everyone else only once. We won on April 10th when the axle forces recognized Croatia's state and we won because we met again after the war with the winners at the winning table. In my opinion, President Mesic then said that the axle forces have recognised Croatia's state and that someone interpreted it as a Croatian victory. If you feel that this is what the NDH has glorified, then you must call President Tudjman to the NDH because President Tudjman was to remind you, just to find a quote at the first General Assembly of the HDZ in Lisinski, forgetting that NDH was not only a Qvislin formation and fascist crime but an expression that the political aspirations of the Croatian people for their own independent state and the knowledge of international factors in this case of the Government of Hitler Germany, which was violated by religious peace, were tailored by a new constitutional order. The NDH therefore represented not only the mere whim of the axle forces but was the result of certain historical factors. Therefore, the next time you call, call together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8517	The reply to the replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8518	Comrade Bauk, I would, you would be correct if you were an example of insulting your colleague on behalf of the club of the current president and President Mesic with the same attitude to protect yourself then I would say that you are looking at it from one point of view which means neutrally, which is correct. But everything you've just said is basically just confirming what I've been saying all along. We're talking about whether it takes one of the presidents at the expense of the other presidents to have a life-long right to the office and the other presidents who will be in the future and so far only have the right to 5 years, it's a great injustice. And everything that's been said means on behalf of the former president, but that's what we're discussing, that's what we're talking about. and his office I stand absolutely behind it, not a single word I have hurt there but only the facts and it's very easy to verify about the entry of foreign media into the archive, the documentation of the Homeland War, it's visible, it's shown by all the televisions, which I find embarrassing for one country that a representative of such institutions, of the highest level, treats documentation and archives from the Homeland War. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8519	Next replica, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8520	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear colleague Bulj, here's listening to your lines and your debate. I can only wonder if you're canceling the president's office because he sang or because you want to save. I've never heard him sing, maybe there's no hearing man, maybe he did it too. But now they're joking aside, so from the debates like my colleagues and colleagues said, I see that there's no office asked, there's no institution in question, there's a man being asked. But dear colleagues and colleagues, as much as we appreciate ourselves, will appreciate us as much as others. We are visited by a high-ranking statesman with whom I have a very political difference in respect of his respect for human rights, the right to freedom of the media, etc. But if I had the chance to meet him, I'd shake his hand, greet him politely, not because I respect him necessarily as a person, but because I respect the institution. And this debate here, in fact, I think it's a demeaning institution. You say, people who lie to people about what kind of people they are, quote what Mr. Mesic said. So I can pull the parallel and say what kind of people sign certified statements in public notebooks and then make the exact opposite. It's a question to me, much more relevant. And in the end, you say, let's put an end to unnecessary institutions. So come on, I suggest we abolish this government because it's no use to her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8521	The reply to the replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8522	So I'm going to do it again, and here's the minister, which will also mean that by abolishing the office of the former president of the Republic who got it for life, the direction of reform is being shown. And yet you haven't denied me anything I've said about a man who's the only one who has the right to have a life office so far. We and other officials who are not presidents, perhaps who would be more worthy and make a better contribution, would contribute more to the Republic of Korea than in North Korea Stjepan Mesic, so they do not have their former office but help people with self-initiative and advice and assistance and that's fine. As far as we're concerned, you said what kind of people we are. What kind of people are you when you're negotiating with us and you're recruiting people, pressing at the same time as you look us in the eye and lie? What kind of people are you? There you have now confirmed and confessed. What kind of people are you? And what kind of people did we have to deal with? And I'm sorry that we're not all together, so we've made 10 reforms and what you've done in the past, and we've made each other through these ten reforms together. But what kind of people do I tell you? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8523	The next replica, the distinguished representative Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8524	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Bulj, I simply find your debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives and the representative of the Most unheard of. And I think this is a kind of precedent in this Croatian Parliament in a way that supports a certain law. We're used to MOST in this period on various games, games. However, if you have already found yourself, the game of the case is in a position to take responsibility for the state and to come to power in no way gives you the right to do a random state from Croatia. And only in a random state can it happen that the law is passed in order for the government to deal with one man and your debate has just been proof that this is a classic lex ad hominem, a law against one man. Neither, nor did you give any argument as to why the reduction of rights or the abolition of certain rights related to the institute or the institution of the former president should be discussed after the end of the term of office, which should actually be the main content of this law. So the only thing we have is some wet argument that the implementation of this law will make savings in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia amounting to about 600 thousand kuna per year which is actually a fig leaf for the public because that you support savings then as some colleagues here say you would probably react to the fact that for the first time the vice-presidents of the Government are a protected person of the second category, that their families are protected categories, that the president is moving every little bit of the fourth time here's his office. Here in Zadar when it was 4 days, the satisfaction of Croatian citizens cost 33,000 kunas, Petrov, Karamarko, each of them annually costs 900 thousand kuna, their families even more. If this is about savings, then we need to hear clearly, unequivocally from you the arguments that you support and this is a deal with one man in this case, Stjepan Mesic, and it is before, before, too sad for a country like Croatia and for someone who has taken responsibility for the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8525	Replication response, Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8526	Well, the minister isn't one word, she mentioned the office of the former president as far as I heard the presentation, and that's a suggestion. In the name of MOST, I have spoken of my views, of course, and as far as I can see, no replica is directed towards this proposal, but it is very important that you only talk about Stjepan Mesic, only to you. I merely stated how much the president's office is former not to serve, that this rationalization is and the need for the former president's office for life because it simply doesn't benefit the Republic of Croatia from it. No one humiliates institutions, you know that. And you mention this all the time and vice president of the government who has his own insurance. Well, I was in Metkovic over the weekend, so I left on Sundays, so I didn't see any insurance here. Of course, they will judge the profession that needs to be provided or protected or not protected. I'm no expert on that. Therefore, and some colleagues, the Croatian state is not a random state, the Croatian state is, you said, and all of us who came here to the Parliament, perhaps you think that we are by accident, we are not safe, perhaps you think that we have introduced... From the neighborhood, that's what your president once told you to my city that we fell out of a pear to be in the Parliament, to make a grain of blood here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No, the people choose, can be difficult, can be peasants, can be workers, can be academics, not just elitists who think they were born in Zagreb in some neighborhood that spin CDs with certain tycoons and the head of the National Bank and is considered some kind of left-wing god for days. So everyone who enters the Parliament that the people chooses is democratically elected and Croatia is not a random state. Croatia was created in reconciliation in the 1990s and 95s in the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8527	The last replica, the esteemed representative Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8528	Thank you very much. Comrade Bull, I listened to your presentation, you spoke on behalf of the Most. I deeply believe that this is not exactly the whole MOST's position, but that it's your personal exposure, but it doesn't matter. All those who remember since 1990 and political events and events will remember in the early 1990s that I also personally collaborated closely with Dr Franjo Tudjman and with Stjepan Mesic, who has been a senior HDZ official since 1990. Although we were in the same political party, although we were officials of the party, I think it is also known to the public that I was politically with Stjepan Mesic, and I did not agree with him, all those years, all there and until the 93rd year when the Mesić-Tuđman-Manolić split up and I have no reason to defend him, I absolutely have no intention of defending him or defending him. But your performance today was nothing more than a clean indictment that went after a man. In that indictment you took for granted, you listed a few, at least five, six things that fall into the category of serious crime. If this man has done so and in such a way as you did, then he must be dealt with by the rule of law, and I will tell you briefly that you have used the constitutional provision that a representative can speak in the Croatian Parliament without having to bear responsibility for the spoken word, without fear of being prosecuted, because if you said it at a press conference, be assured that you would find yourself in court, that Stjepan Mesic would sue you for libel. So, I find it incorrect to expose the club's name to an indictment written on Inquisition Principles. Stjepan Mesic has been accused of having to prove his innocence. He's not here in Parliament and he can't talk. We need to discuss the president's office here, not the former president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8529	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8530	Dear colleague Glavas, I don't see where I wrote the indictment. All the facts I've given you, I'll give you, read, so there's no denying me in anything. In the '90s, he was drinking and celebrating NDH in Australia. I'll show you the video, that he was saying that the Serbs would take what they had, I'll give you a record, that he was letting foreign journalists into the president's office, of course, and it's easy to verify. I don't know what arguments yet, but only here is it about the president's office, the former office of the President of the Republic of Stjepan Mesic, because he has won the right means for life what the former President Josipovic didn't take advantage of. I absolutely did not accuse anyone here just saying that MOST supports this government proposal and we will support and I have made arguments like those on the other hand you bring some others, I have made arguments that are not good for the Republic of Croatia and I do not think it was good for the Republic of Croatia and that also thinks MOST. There is no opposition here at personal level but as an institution of the former office and former president of the Republic of Croatia, we believe that both the savings and unnecessaryness of such an office and many other offices and many other agencies and numerous other counties, municipalities and many things. So, Stephen Mesic here is the former president who, by what I said, is behind this whole thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8531	Thank you. Here's what we're gonna end today's debate. We'll continue all the other speakers tomorrow at 9.30 due to protocol obligations and so it won't be midnight. Session interrupted at 16.50 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8532	Now we're going back to our usual agenda. We broke up yesterday, so we should continue with the point About the final proposal of the Law on Amendment and Completion of the Law on the Special Rights of the President of the Republic of Croatia upon termination of office, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 29. And in turn the application is now coming to order on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8533	Your Honor, Mr. President. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The debate was on its full scale yesterday, I guess it's a little bit, calmer, calmed down and passion, so we'll be back on the subject that might have been ugly to say yesterday, but I'll take this opportunity on behalf of the club, so what are we talking about? As we understand the intention of the law of the existing and its changes somewhere, it is the intention that the institutions of this state have a permanent position and that this position is protected regardless of which one of the ruling furniture or which political option was translated by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. They all spoke of the dignity of duty, the need to keep institutions at a certain level, not to be questioned every time and the rights related to those institutions. However, in their discussions, many of the colleagues then used this exact opposite to talk about individuals who were on duty, to insult individual holders of these duties, we heard the difficult words I think are not appropriate or should be given, related to the law on the special rights of the President of the Republic of Croatia after the conduct of their duties. What are we talking about? We are talking about the law last amended in 2013 and that, at the end of the term of office, the President of the Republic, determines for the first time whether or not he or she retains a specific tax code of rights. These rights are next, that the President of the Republic has the right to return to work with an employer who worked indefinitely before the start of the duties of the President of the Republic or the employer with whom he concluded a special contract. The second right is the right to compensation for a maximum of two salaries until it has obtained the right to return to an earlier job and if it does not return to an earlier job has the right to pay according to specific regulations, it also has the right to office, two officials, a personal driver and an official vehicle, another right less important and I do not think it is appropriate to mention it, it has the basis of that law. We're talking about this circle of rights that now, by amending that law, the government wants to narrow down. The existing law itself has already great logical and legal illogicalness. If you have a signed contract that you have the right to return to work with the employer you worked with before you entered into office, then you have the right to do so regardless of whether it is written in this law on the special rights of the President of the Republic, so it is absolutely unnecessary to state this in the law, but on the other hand, it raises entirely other issues which are specific contracts with some special employers that you can conclude by way of a degree of duty of the President of the Republic which are not the ones you previously worked with. What's particularly controversial in our public is the fact that the President of the Republic has the right to an office that has actually been turned into a special stand-alone rather elegant building, that he has the right to some of the costs of the work of his office and of what I've already said to officials, drivers and physical protection. The Government is now proposing that part of these rights be denied, or that the new law no longer belongs to all these rights to the President of the Republic. In 2013, when you proposed colleagues from the opposition and then by ruling this law, we told you that the law suffered from one major complaint, which is that you cannot have two categories of presidents so much as the former presidents, or those whose duties had ceased because for one of the rights listed here were valid for a period of 5 years and for one another alone, those rights were valid for life. Again for a reminder, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia Article 14.st.2. ‘All are equal before the law’ and in Article 16. The Constitution says, "That freedoms and rights can only be restricted by law in order to protect other people's freedoms and rights and legal order, morality and health." In 2013, we told you if the former President of the Republic has permanent rights then every former president must have the same rights. You then claimed that there are different, that there are some who have greater and different rights than others. We did not agree at that time or today, and that is probably why this law - amending intervention. When we talked about the law, you wanted to illustrate the specific intentions of today's majority as we adapt the law to our or your presidents which is not true and what is not true, so I will also remind you that there was once a simpler, more logical possibility and was prescribed and it concerned the first president of the Republic of Croatia that, after the term of office, he would become a lifelong member of Parliament's county home, unless that right explicitly gave up. It was worth the right to amend the Constitution in 2000, and that right was worth it back then for that president you mentioned yesterday in your discussions, illustrating that we had not dared in a different way to regulate the rights of the President of the Republic. So much for the discussions you had yesterday. So that's also incorrect. And those rights were if you wanted much more modest in your scope than those we have for the former president today, but not for every former president. The intention that every former president has a permanent right is noble and I think it is necessary in every democratic country, because that shows our relationship with institutions. But that would probably mean that everyone will have their own standards, that every President of the Republic can choose after the end of the term of office if he does not intend to engage in business with all these stories of working relations at a certain or indefinite time, to have the right to compensation or pension that is decent, consistent with the opportunities of the state but also certainly consistent with the duties he once held. What was regulated in 2013 was the right to retire, and that was when we talked about it, it seemed that one of those former presidents who was relatively young had the right to experience this right to have a much smaller pension than people who went into retirement by general rules or, say, what was also said then in the debates in the Assembly that the former President of the Republic had four times less pension than a colleague who was a parliamentary representative and who had won the elections for the President of the Republic. So even the current solutions are not the best, but they are certainly among other things consistent with the possibilities. First, that all former presidents of the Republic must have the same rights to be within the framework of the Croatian Constitution, that there is no one who should use these rights for life, because I do not know what it would be justified to do. And finally, the president of the Republic is no special category in the Croatian Constitution at the end of his duties. The Constitution doesn't know that term. There is neither in the legislation except in the Special Rights Act upon termination of office. Ask yourself what it means to act as president at the end of office when, for example, 10 years after the end of the term of office appears in international relations, and it is likely to present itself precisely in that function, which means for the country from which it comes, but what it means in the final line for the hosts who will open up the possibility to it, and it will always be political action on that public scene. Therefore, there is no specific category provided for by our legislation, so I do not see why this law should be introduced, nor has there any reasonable explanation that some of these rights are used for life. The president, however, does not, at the end of his duties, have any prescribed duties that he could possibly later fulfil, and we are all aware of what has often been said to countries of high democratic tradition to use their reputation in the domestic international public to promote their country's interests. I think it's incorrect to compare with some systems especially American, because the funding of their presidents and ours is real, but it can't be compared to anything, nor are our options alike. This is why we think that when the Government proposes a reduction of the law, it is necessary to take care of the reasoning of this law and, in particular, to explain the issue of a position in the legal order of a person named the former president, i.e. at the end of his or her duties, that he must also explain the effect of those persons in the domestic and international political public and what may be the political influence or influence on the economic or other interests of the country. It's just one of the questions that needs to be further explained, because I believe that the reasons for saving 600,000 kuna itself, regardless of what might sound rough, is the least important explanation. We here do not make changes to the law because of savings in the state budget at the expense of the office of the former president but on the rights which he has and nothing, but there is absolutely nothing I can justify. And finally, what you were saying about the Constitutional Court's practice because there were great experts who had already declared that the constitutional suit would be passed in our Constitutional Court, you used the wrong arguments because the Constitutional Court's solutions concerned entirely other issues and concerned other times. This right, which today has one former president of the Republic of Croatia, was passed by the 2004 Law. And perhaps the most interesting of all that law was declared by President Stjepan Mesic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8534	Thank you. We have a whole series of replicas on your exhibit. First, it is the distinguished MPs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8535	Dear counterpart Mlakar just in 2004 on July 8th 2004, you proposed a law that you are now criticising and honoring the president of the then-Mesic for signing it. So you are proposing, among other things, that the President of the Republic, upon termination of his duties, has the right to use equipped office rooms suitable for carrying out activities and organising meetings. Exactly what you're criticizing right now and what you want to end, among other things. And yet you explain it by saying what the consequences will be by passing that law. So you say, among other things, that this law needs to ensure continuity in the domain of cooperation and international relations and the creation of a platform for further personal cooperation and continuous contacts with institutions in the country and beyond. So you're talking exactly and substancefully about how important this institution is to the former president and what he's going to have to do. It's so much so you don't forget. What you are proposing now is indeed at the border of constitutionality, I would dare say that it is counter-constitutional in view of the Constitutional Court's decision no. Since 2014, where the Constitutional Court, in such and similar situations, has said that the objective must be legitimate, and the measures proposed by law must be proportionate to that objective. The objective, the Constitutional Court says it must be in the public interest. If 600,000 kuna is in the public interest, I'm asking a question that was apostrophysed yesterday where you're increasing the cost of protected persons for the Deputy Prime Minister. But you're telling yourself that money doesn't matter here. So the goal must be in the public interest, not in the private, party interest as it is apparent to conclude from yesterday's debates of your coalition because you do not like Mr Mesic. So more respect for your own at least as much as you have for aliens.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8536	Thank you very much. The respect usually consists of sticking to time. I ask everyone to stick to time. The esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8537	As long as you let me. Dear colleagues Anticevic-Marinović from your claims several inaccuracies, although you may have thought differently but as you said. It was you in 2004. On 8 May or July, they proposed a Law on the Rights of the President of the Republic. I was a private company employee at the time. I was nowhere near the government or the Parliament. Maybe you meant HDZ, I'm not HDZ, I'm a micro part of that HDZ. So, if HDZ also proposed such a law in 2004 and I can agree with that that you are right. But then you had to say it precisely. But even then HDZ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8538	My colleagues, Ingrid Antičević, so please don't throw away all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8539	But even then, HDZ did not propose that there was an ex-president who beat up the president of the Republic of Croatia so that one who was in office earlier had a life right, and the other who inherited it had that right for 5 years. Second, how important the president's function is, I've been talking about it. And I think it's much more important to give the former president of the state a decently deserved pension than what you've calculated, which could be 2.5 or 3,000 kuna a month. And at the end of the Constitutional Court's decision, you may not have understood well, it concerns issues of partly acquired rights related to the pensions of parliamentary representatives and judges of the Constitutional Court, and there is a question of proportionality and expected results. Stipe Mesic came into office in 2000, and in 2004 he exercised his right. It's a completely different legal situation, but it takes a little more time to clarify.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8540	Thank you very much. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8541	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Mlakar, although your debate was indeed as you said in the introduction, more calmly than you said yesterday's debate between colleagues, Bulja cannot be taken away from the impression that there is something different behind this bill than what you are saying. So, there are things that are measurable, you're right here, you can't argue about saving 600 thousand kunas such a trivial argument that, surely big money, it's the only argument to pass this law because there are things that are immeasurable you know that well. And we didn't have many former presidents in Croatia. So is the visit to former President Azerbaijan, Petrograd, Albania or somewhere in Orahovica where he brought two ambassadors to promote the city of Orahovica's tourist offer are such actions measurable? That's a whole other question. But when we talk about Stjepan Mesic, it's not the first time he's wanted out of politics in '71. It moved him from politics when, afterwards, he ended up in Old Gradišca, '90s moving him out of politics when he was banned from holding pre-election meetings in '94. When he split up with President Tudjman and this is the fourth time he wants out of politics. And I think that's the main point of this law. Perhaps more savings would have been made if we had made head hunting, so let's say we found the behavioral officer of the former president who would have been politically in line with the rulings today. And finally, let me just say, I'm going to quote the words of a special politician who said that a long time ago, he said for himself, I'm going to say for Stipe Mesic, always loyal, never sold and for many unpleasant. I wish him much health and to return to politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8542	Thank you. The esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8543	Comrade Sagar, you and your colleagues have been talking again and again about personal names yesterday, and you are illustrating something I didn't say at all. I will repeat you for understanding, I do, and if you think about it you would probably come to the same conclusion that it is not constitutionally permissible to have a citizen of the first and second order, that you have someone who has one right on the basis of the same duty you deny it to someone else. That's what needs to be asked. And I haven't told you at all about Stipe Mesic, the whole 15-minute exposure I just ended up with the fact that he was the president of the state at the time of the law that gave him the rights that no one else had, not one president before or after him. If you think that's a quality solution, that's a fair solution, that's a legal solution, then say it. And where he travels and what the results of his travels are, it's almost a metaphysical category. I don't know how many tourists we got from Azerbaijan because of his travels there or what jobs we managed to do there, but it was neither the subject of this law nor my presentation. It can also solve its function as a director of the Croatian Tourist Board in this way. But what we're talking about is the fact that institutions can't even submit in the way you imagine it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8544	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8545	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Dear colleague Mlakar, I had a need to contact you more in principle because some years ago and together we worked together. First of all, as a representative of the Croatian Parliament, it does not occur to defend politics or the political action of Stjepan Mesic, however, it was difficult to avoid this because one is the late president, two are former and we have the President of the Republic. There is little name here in Croatian history, so it is difficult to avoid it. However, it is absolutely inappropriate yesterday in the Parliament that a man of 82 years serves someone as a boxing bag in the debut performances in the Croatian Parliament. It's about the president of the country someone chose. He was the president of the Republic of Croatia for 10 years, and it is said that the people who give up their past have no future either. We can't even erase his actions that were one or the other, I didn't choose him. We cannot forget either the former prime ministers or Racan or Milanovic and cannot forget Mrs Kosor or Sanader no matter what they think of it. I don't think it's appropriate at this point, or at all time in Croatia to be with someone who is 82 years old, whom someone once chose politically in this way. I'm more into it, since you were minister of administration in 2009, then we had three budget rebalances in the summer, and then the HDZ government left a million and 200 thousand kuna in the former president's office. That's when we were supposed to do it in 2009. And now in 2016, when it comes to 600 thousand kuna, at the border of the constitutionality of the decision, I am more than willing to have you cut it to 100 to 200 thousand kuna, so we would avoid the Constitutional Court and we would allow the Office of the former President to find its sponsors and to implement the policy within the limits of the law in the way that the law allows it. I'm saying, I'm not his lawyer, and I don't think it's wise to support his policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8546	Thank you. The esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8547	I'm a little surprised at the beginning of your replica, but I agree with you, boxing bag, shooting someone at a later age, I don't think I'm anything but one word in person... And yesterday, you had to talk about it yesterday. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's hard to talk about yesterday and I'm even less committed to replicating or defending some of the colleagues who spoke yesterday. In no word did I mention the policy led by Mr Stipe Mesic while he was president of the Republic, the others spoke of it. There are a whole series of disputes and its role in Croatian politics, over time probably and over time, will be getting more and more grades, so we will be able to estimate how positive, negative, how much it was going towards the reputation or opposite of the Republic of Croatia. But I stand by as I was saying three years ago when the SDP proposed this law, I stand up for every President of the Republic to have a decent pension. Because a state that won't allow its officers of this rank, chosen by the people to live politely, speaks much about themselves and our low passions. But on the other hand, that he must be given some special right that you deny to other former presidents, I find it legally unsustainable. Not to praise Mr. Josipovic who even gave up the rights he had as former president. He is granted the right of such a species or confined only to 5 years, and that is what we need to talk about today.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8548	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8549	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's a colleague of the Mlakar, you've explained everything nicely and it's true that in 2004, this law was passed even though not all MPs were for him, although a number of MPs opposed the adoption of the law because there were certain doubts that Stjepan Mesic did not do all the right things in his term but did a lot of bad things. I think that at that time it was necessary to prevent the law from being passed, and I think that, at that time, the colleagues of the opposition today were in favour of the law. Since Stjepan Mesic deleted Dr. Franjo Tudjman's story from the internet in his term and clearly showed which policy he wanted to translate then, he disbanded Croatian generals i.e. He changed them and retired them. Given that Stjepan Mesic, when we already have more knowledge and we can clearly say that he is along with certain opposition leaders... He made it clear that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has done ethnic cleansing in Western Slavonia and since, in the end, I am not listing everything that is forgotten today, that there are a number of elements that say that Stjepan Mesic and has not acted well in the interest of the Republic of Korea as well as the last visit to the secret of North Korea, that infamous communist state, and I think that because of what he did in the end, regardless of all the previous negativity that we can mention, it is necessary to amend this law and it is necessary to make such a decision that these rights no longer have. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Perhaps for people who contributed to the development of the Republic of Croatia, who contributed to the progress of the Republic of Croatia, who were not witnesses against the Republic of Croatia and who were not in the position of traitors, perhaps for you should ensure a fair pension.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8550	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8551	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Djakic, I am convinced in that initial assessment that none of us were acting on our duty to work and did only good, all had mistakes some and large but it was not the subject of my debate or this law because this law speaks of respect for institutions and certain things we must accept because of our obligation to the state. Often, it can happen that officials elected or most often happen and are not always in everyone's taste and we can understand that, but let them be judged in some other proceedings, on their actions, on their methods of work, on the results of their work, it does not have to be a burden on this law. When the Government wants problems in society to come out of this problem in a quality way by retaining some right of dignity and duty for Mr. Mesic, but it reduces the right because of something that is unrealistic, which is politically and economically unwarranted, then it is not logical to face such opposition because what the opposition thinks the former president should have then it would be logical to say that it is worth it for every former president, and the opposition doesn't think so. The opposition is actually using this only to provoke a debate on the political action of one of the former presidents of the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8552	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8553	Thank you. You're saying a respected colleague, it's not possible that there are two categories of former presidents, possibly because it's not up to you or my political will, but whether someone enjoyed some rights, whether they acquired some rights at the time of the regulation on his rights. There are thus two types of former parliamentary deputies, those who will be entitled to a parliamentary pension and those who will not be entitled to a parliamentary pension. But it does not depend on it as counterpart Djakic knows whether they were good representatives, whether they represented HDZ interests or not, but whether they were MPs when the regulation was passed, whether they had already acquired the right to that parliamentary pension. I think you'll have that right, too, because you've been a minister in the government, and you've been a parliamentary representative more than once, while colleague Arsen Bauk will not or will have it because he was. But let's just say he won't have a Sinisha Hajdash Doncic. So there's going to be two types and there's already, like, two kinds of former parliamentary deputies. On this point, the Constitutional Court made a very clear statement when it decided on the rights of parliamentary representatives and members of the Constitutional Court and therefore, if the Constitutional Court were not to be governed by the logic of counterpart Djakic to assess the action of the former President of the Republic then it would be a principled decision but I think, as my colleague Arsen said yesterday, if he took the Constitutional Court in the debate, in considering the very debate of fellow Djakic, to see what motivates him and what is at all a motive for making this law, and this is a vengeful move towards the former president then I have no doubt that, on the basis of this debate, the Constitutional Court would completely reject and make a decision as it had already been made.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8554	The esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8555	Dear fellow Stazic, your interpretation of the Constitution is always interesting but does not mean it is true. Of course you're trying to find arguments for your views, but they're very flimsy. For what reason? You compare two categories that you cannot compare when you are already talking about parliamentary deputies. There is only one duty of the president of the Republic of Croatia in the Croatian Constitution. There's no one who's stopped acting like a duty or an ex. There is, however, another category that is not touched at all by this law because it has not occurred to you. There's a so-called. the interim President of the Republic, which is the President of the Parliament who, in certain cases, may act as President of the Republic. Does he have any rights under this law? That's not what this law said. In 2013, you didn't say because you didn't take care of it because your concern was only to satisfy the interest of one of the former presidents. And now you're telling us about what and how the Constitutional Court will think. And what you are referring to is the Constitutional Court's decision on pensions, and not on these other special rights of the former president, and that is not an argument that you can use in this case because those who have been given the right to retire have won that pension at the time of winning the term of office, and Stipe Mesic won the rights four years after winning his term. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8556	Thank you very much. The next replica will be the esteemed representative of Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8557	Thank you. A colleague of Mlakar, you failed to notice that unless President Mesic won the term in 2000 if he had won the mandate in 2005, then, if it had not already been applied to 2000, the provision would certainly have been applied to 2005. I know that his term in 2000 is still more important because Karamarko was then his campaign chief, and then only Marijana Petir was his spokeswoman and Bandic the campaign chief for Zagreb, so not that the ruling majority of today was not represented in his second term. But I think the argument you made about becoming 2000 could stand, but then it became 2005. So, at the moment of entry into service, that law was valid. That's one thing. I agree with my fellow Stazic's argument that we have former and former parliamentary deputies, and then we can have former and former presidents of the state as far as their special rights are concerned. Since there are indications that you will be able to decide on the constitutionality of this law, just an indication that you will not take me wrong now, then I have seen your debate as a certain build-up from the reasoning of the Government of the Republic of Croatia because it does not hold water. And from Mr. Bulj's explanation yesterday on behalf of the Most Representatives Club who also doesn't hold water. So, this attempt to save what is given to save, to justify the constitutionality of this law. But then I see no other way, but that this law goes into another reading and that the government writes, that is, that you write an explanation and that the government prescribes it to at least put it in some legal form where you wouldn't be able to vote as a constitutional judge against the law that you voted for in the House as a representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8558	They will respond to the replica of the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8559	Comrade Bauk, you are just such an interesting group of lawyers on this side of Parliament. But for the first time in my life, I've learned that besides being an informer, a constitutional expert, a legislator that you're psychic. It's something new to me. What indication there is and what you consider indications in a particular case I don't know. I even less like your thinking that you know and how your political rivals will think in the future. But when you know all that, then I'm sorry that you weren't the leader of all the presidential campaigns, because the results of not only those presidents, but our countries would be exceptional and much better than they are today. I won't write to the government any arguments, she can do it herself. Mr. Stazic didn't say and you wrongly agree with him that there are exes and beating up presidents of the Republic, but only representatives. And I said there are but completely against the constitutional ex and beating up the presidents of the Republic because the Constitution doesn't know that. He doesn't even know his ex. And it does not work at all to convince them, through a long-term period after the end of the term of office, that the possibility of political action that you want to force us to convince not only that it is possible, but that it is necessary. So I suggest that you save your special abilities especially visibility for the future, and that we benefit from other regulations in any case.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8560	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative, God Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8561	Thank you. Comrade Mlakar, you have brought us back to the scale of the matter by your debate because so far we have mostly listened to a speech on the policy of the legacy of politician Mesic. But even when the talk was about it, I saw it more as a speech about us than about politician Mesic. Namely, when politician Mesic got up in Melbourne or when he told the Croatian Serbs that they could leave Croatia but take as many countries as they had brought to the Popes and when he testified in The Hague he spoke publicly, testified publicly, or at least it was known, so Croatia chose him twice. That's why I'm here to say a few words about the actions of former President Mesic and former politician Mesic. The action of President Mesic in BiH today is an action that is an appologetic of the great hegemonist politics in BiH, which is harmful to the political interests of Croats in BiH and thus national Croatian interests. The calling of most Croatian people for constitutionality and fascist can only be called national masochism or national self-destruction, and therefore to all those here in the Assembly who have problems with the notional definition and essence of fascism and antifascism, I recommend that they read the essay of former SDP Minister of Science of the Iron Flege of 1996 entitled "The Psychological structure of antifascism". And then we wouldn't act the way we behave. Thank you very much. Traveling 22nd from Jasenovac's memorial at 1800 hours, I listen to Radio Free Europe, an American radio based in Prague that says, "Today a memorial was held in Jasenovac without anti-fascists, no representatives of Serbs and no representatives of Jews." What does that mean? That we were several thousand there who were fascists? That Mr. Branko Lustig isn't Jewish? That Orthodox priests are not Serbs etc., etc. What does that mean for Croatia? And that's why I say that such behavior is self-destructive for all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8562	Thank you. The esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8563	My dear colleague, I have spoken on behalf of the club exclusively of the objective, purpose and technique if you will and the intention of passing laws and editing of an institute that actually does not know our legislation, and all with the aim of still regulating relations in institutions in an appropriate way. Which is appropriate for which one of us is the second question. I have not touched a single word speaking on behalf of former President Mesic's policy club that I can agree with or disagree with at all, I do not agree with his policy at all. But it wasn't important for the law to be passed. Yesterday we spoke, and our colleagues took advantage of the opportunity to insult the current President of the Republic with which this law has nothing to do with it. They spoke in praises about Mr. Mesic, not about the law that leaves him with a permanent right to be able to do what he still wants or thinks to do. But the essence of what they called us for is, first, if it's some kind of anti-fascist approach, it can only exist if there's fascism at the same time. Fascism has long been defeated, so I don't know what our colleagues mean when they're constantly calling for an anti-fascist fight. But there was an opportunity, the last form of politics most similar to fascism was a major Serb aggression against the Republic of Serbia. They weren't as loud as they were back then.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8564	Thank you very much. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Sauche. He's gone, he's losing his right to a replica. Next is the distinguished representative of Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8565	Thank you very much. We're far enough away from our fellow Mlakar, so we haven't been able to figure things out, but when things from rational to irrational, then what's been happening to us for the last two days is happening to us. Yesterday, we did six financial laws at two o'clock, and about a law that should only regulate certain things and make them a little bit more settled life-saving as much as we're discussing. Look, we had in the past laws that applied precisely to certain people by name and last name. Then, on the other hand, you couldn't even hear them say that those laws... However, the law wants exclusively to be seen as a political match with former President Mesic. [[You don't understand.]] Now, is that how it is and if we want to talk about it that way, is the former president in charge by any law? Or are we going to treat him like a former official? Does the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest apply to him? Does it concern those provisions that other officials have that they should not work in certain enterprises for a year, etc.? Could his lobbying be lobbying only for the benefit of state and state policy or could that lobbying be for some companies? But then it has to be regulated, it's regulated by some other laws. So a series of questions that are being opened and that need to be regulated but we can only regulate them in a way that we don't talk about names and last names. And when we clearly define that, because we had here and a bill of law that parliamentary deputies had no right to do anything after the term of office. And at the same time, you have the law that you must not work in such institutions and such institutions when you leave your post. Therefore, whether we have ex-presidents along with the former presidents and we define them as their Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest or leave them to do whatever they want, so when they try to prevent it, it's a personal attack. And lex Perkovic, lex Komadina, lex this, lex that one should not be said to be such laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8566	Thank you. The esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8567	I can whisper to him. I don't even have to whisper so loud. Comrade Shuker, you have now asked in your replica the question we have been talking about all along, the state cannot afford the luxury of designing laws for individuals regardless of who it was. [[Don't, they'll say anything.]] In this case, and we will repeat that yet, it may be good to repeat, there is no constitutional category of president upon termination of office or as we often call it the former president. Well then, there is no other than this law and no law-ordered rights or obligations of such a person. Well then, there is no possibility that he is treated as an official who is obliged to fill the property card, who is obliged to submit stable reports of his work although they claimed otherwise yesterday, that we know in detail what the president's office was doing every year, where he was staying and what the results of his agitation were, or in order to say consulting jobs, lobbying jobs around the world. We often travel very often, some colleagues know that and most often without great results, or it is very difficult to connect the results with specific travels. But at the very end of the line, keeping a stable level of protection of the institution, even if this is the case afterwards, the former president's institution is considered quite enough and adequate and because of the political and legal system, the character of our government and in the extreme line of economic, financial opportunities of the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8568	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Branimir Glavas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8569	Comrade Mlakar, your explanation has been phenomenally legally explained and very little room to give you an objection to your explanation. However, you mentioned that, yesterday we heard difficult words that are not appropriate, you looked there. You weren't there yesterday, but we heard the hard words that weren't appropriate, but they didn't exactly come from there, they came from here to there. So it's your ruling coalition's fault that you didn't perform first on behalf of the club and bring out what you said today. A part of the ruling coalition was used yesterday when there was no television transmission to use in the truth what Mr. Salapic of an 82-year-old Mr. Mesic, who was the president of the Republic in two terms, or some of your members of the ruling coalition, Mr. Mesic, as a boxing bag. Yesterday, a representative of your coalition partner of the MOST Club who spoke on behalf of 15 MPs presented a single indictment, it cannot be called otherwise, but rather an indictment against the former president of the Republic of Croatia, where at least 5, 6 serious crimes he has put in his statement which is the position of your coalition partner and which must inevitably end up in the state's attorney's office. So he misused the constitutional possibility that the MP would not be responsible for the matter. If what he said yesterday in the Parliament had said at a press conference here that Mr. Representative, Mr. Bully would have ended up in court for defamation. So the charges, erasing the floor with the former president of the Republic came from your ranks. And you have made a mistake, in the future, agree that one who speaks for the ruling coalition speaks in a way that will not cause such a reaction. I'm sorry the public didn't see it yesterday. And I really agree that you should write materials for the government because the government's proposal was to change this law because of 600,000 kuna. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And in this proposal, it really did not hold water, but it went directly to man alone.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8570	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8571	Dear colleague Glavas, first of all, I thank you for your compliments and now you've potentiated something that's familiar. It is not only the fact that we do not have to agree within the coalition, we often have different opinions within our party. I spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club, which is the position of our club. We need our coalition partners to think differently. Or if you want their rhetoric can be sharper. I would actually like to open once a debate on the action of President Mesic, political action at the time of his term of office, his mandate, and on the end of the line as he represented or protected the state interests. I think first, that would be extremely incorrect and that he can't say something first about how he sees his political action, but then that should be the topic of the agenda. I was really sticking to the Rules of Procedure about the law, not Stipe Mesic. I wasn't even talking about Mr. Ivo Josipovic. And unfortunately, let's say the Croatian public won't use it where it proved to be much more modest in the application of the rights that have been granted to him than many of us might be. But when you act politely, when you behave correctly, it doesn't usually come to public approval. It's a lot more interesting storms, nerves, rough words. And that's what some used in their discussions. I was part of it yesterday, but because of other obligations, I couldn't listen to the whole debate, but I believe we'll still pass the law in the proposed text.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8572	Thank you very much. We could now be in the way of the next club of representatives, and this is the club of representatives of the HNS in whose name the distinguished representative, Nada Turina Đuric, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8573	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I think here's this two-day debate, although it's not exactly full for two days, but yesterday afternoon and today, it's almost all actually said, but yesterday, I would say, but here we heard today a position on behalf of the HDZ Club. So I would just at first if I could notice saying something that seems to me now that my colleague Glavas has apostrophysed and that's that a colleague of the Mlakar tried to talk about the measure of things, means to pack up this whole story that's definitely political but is only trying to put itself in the context of the legal, meaning legal equality that he spoke well. I'd agree with that. However, it is not possible to take the impression that, apart from fellow Shucker, who was accompanied by all the other colleagues who discussed him from the position of the Patriot coalition and especially yesterday by a colleague from the Most definitely showed that the intensity of this law has absolutely nothing to do with this legal framework, i.e. a reform that could be undermined under the savings of 600 thousand kuna, but that it is exclusively a political decision that goes in the direction of dealing with a person, with Mr Mesic, and through it, of course, with another political option in this Parliament or the state. Since Stipe Mesic is a topic, not 600 thousand kunas or the equality of all citizens before the law and before the Constitution in this country, then a few words about the fact that it is a person and why the law has been passed at all and why we felt that this institution should have a special status in the person of Stjepan Mesic in time because Stjepan Mesic has acted for ten years, he has been elected twice by a large majority of the votes of Croatian citizens. It is very likely that by any chance there was a legal possibility that and for the third time the candidate would have been elected and perhaps today he would have been president if that possibility existed because it was a person who, one of the few people in our policy who came from the right spectrum and ended up somewhere on the spectrum, let's say a political centre, from left to center in his political career, I don't think anyone in Croatia has surpassed it with popularity among citizens. And with the support of not only the right hand or the left as it has been in the past 20 years, but almost most of the citizens, and that was especially because Mr Mesic, after taking office immediately, changed the perception of the office of the president of the state. You all, most of us here remember, it's the first president who was president of the citizens, who immediately after taking office means leaving the political party to run for office. He introduced some brand-new standards into Croatian politics. We remember the political isolation of Croatia for five years and more before Stjepan Mesic, the opening of Croatia, Croatia's entry into the EU, its contribution to all this. I'm not his lawyer, but the fact is that he absolutely changed the perception of Croatian politics during that 10-year period when he was president and that it was precisely based on that and on the great support of all of his citizens at the end and his views and his policies. Mr Mesic continued his activities very actively, it is a gentleman in years but still very active who wants to contribute. Are we really all here in Croatia so much that I would say, we say in the coast of the fool to give up people who in the way that Mr Mesic promoted not only Croatia but also promoted some businessmen, so here are these two forums that are discussed, the economic reform that is so much discussed these days. As for Turkey, for a visit to the Turkish president, about going to a forum in Russia, economics in Russia, we all know that the former president has a great deal to say that this was happening, means that he has led these businessmen throughout the whole series of visits, in his calls from various countries mainly on the economic plan. So, it's undetectable that 600 thousand kuna with everything he's done in the last few years or five years, six years since he's no longer president of the state, but has the status of former president. So before going into this major reform that's not reform, there's a political shift, it's a clean, political reckoning, whatever we call it. Did anyone ever think to ask that former president's office, which consists as far as I know from the driver and one secretary and one building that's being held, did anyone ask what this former president was doing for those five, six years, and try to put it in some balance of damage to what we're doing now in relation to the benefits we've had and what else we might have had, how much more that man could have been, I don't know, given his age, it didn't wonder, how much I know it wasn't asked, and I could have wondered, and I believe it could have gotten, could have gotten what that man was doing. Also, I will now ask because Mr. Josipovic, as former president, refused to use this possibility for 5 years of former president's status with the office and under this law we will delegate Mr. Mesic from the office. I'm asking what's going to happen to that building or that office? Are we gonna keep that office safe, keep it safe, and we're gonna blow it up, somebody's gonna have to do something there, how much is it gonna cost? Are we gonna save anything at all? Probably not. Because I guess, we're not gonna be able to get that building back now, so we're gonna move it back in for three, four, or how many years when Mrs. Colinda is no longer president, if she's not the president again, or we're gonna move her somewhere else. So that point of some savings and that story about some savings has absolutely nothing to do with it. But I think the question is, what's going to happen to those offices? So, nothing less than what I said yesterday in one replica, which is the HNS' attitude. An institution like this had to be kept. There was no real reason for her to be abolished except for the political conflict with a political inexperience, there was neither here nor here. Therefore, the Croatian People's Party will not, of course, support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8574	Thank you. We're starting with replicas. Dear Representative Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8575	Thank you very much. I agree with you, Comrade Turin. I'll just say two short things. I was friends with the former president because he was already formerly Italy, a great friend of Croatia and a great friend of President Tudjman, Mr. Kosig. And I know under what conditions he was acting as his post president. Not only was he like all former presidents a lifelong senator, not only had an office, not only had protection, but he had a series of non-privileged, series of benefits that allowed him to continue to represent Italy in that case in the world. And they didn't agree with Mr. Kosig for many things. He had a lot of resistance in Italy. But these resistances fell when he was no longer president because he was a relationship to the institution and not to the man and so should be with us. We actually need to start respecting the institutions and when it comes from representatives of the national minority, a national minority, I think it should be seen as a very, very serious criticism. The second thing I'd like to say is, I tried to think now about what would happen if President Tudjman died a few years later. Where would his presidential office be? How would HDZ treat former President Tudjman? I guess his office would stay in the presidential court, and the new president might be here on Demeter Street. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8576	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the distinguished representative of Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8577	Thank you, colleague Radin. Well, that's exactly what it was on that track, and it was my debate, no matter what it is, of course, when it comes to a person. There's really talk of a person here and there's a law on a person you can't escape from saying what the reasons were to turn it into an institution and that we have to keep those institutions that way. And also anyone next who comes in such a position as to have such a possibility. However, our colleagues do not want to understand this because they do not, namely, want to put themselves in that skin, which you said at the end of your line about the late first President Franjo Tudjman. Well, yesterday, it seems to me that a colleague in the replica was very funny to say that if someone had ever thought of lifting privileges, or the former president's institution, that it would be tied to Tudjman, that they would have gone to the police first thing in the morning to arrest him rather than to think of it. Of course, but look. It is a policy that will, of course, apply every time it comes to power only its own and any of its own arches and its own standards and deal with those that do not fit those standards. It is not a policy that can provide Croatia with prosperity and stability in the long term and that is what bothers us the most as a Croatian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8578	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Blaženko Boban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8579	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, distinguished Turkish MPs. In your report, you said that Mr Mesic, former president of the Republic of Croatia, certainly enjoys the greatest public popularity today from the draft modern Republic of Croatia. Well, you can't imagine that he enjoyed more popularity and that he had more credit for creating the Republic of Croatia than the first Croatian president Dr. Franje Tudjman from whom he eventually taught in a particular segment of his political action. Secondly, whether you think it is normal, and it is normal and it is a legal obligation for every office, institution, association, anyone who receives funds from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia to subscribe to certain reports the past work of the past year from which he has drawn financial resources, and finally to the Croatian public for this work. I have not had a chance anywhere to see in these past 6 7 years how long former President Mesic was in the role of the former president that, and now it is still, that anywhere he could read the report on the financial resources spent from the Republic of Croatia budget for his work and action so that the entire Croatian public knew indeed where the financial resources of the taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia were spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8580	Thank you. Replica's reply, distinguished representative Nada Turina Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8581	First of all, I don't think you heard the right thing. I did not say that Mr Mesic is now the most popular politician in Croatia. I said that Mr Mesic was first elected in two terms with a large majority of the votes of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. That's the first one. And secondly, I said that during that period, when he was president, he was not only the most popular but that nobody in the meantime reached him in that popularity, if it is measured by those surveys, which were done on the monthly basis, or done in Croatia. So no one reached that percentage, a high percentage of the popularity he had. So I said that in the context of actually envying a part of the politicians and political parties in Croatia because that was the case. And then I said he'd probably be able to continue his career as president, that he could run under the law to probably be re-elected. And I also said that maybe today would be the president, which, of course, can be difficult to explain now, but possibly so. I said you could ask for a report. Namely, the former president's office has no obligation to file a report, but I think a report might have been requested before this came forward. I don't think there'd be any bigger problems if such a report could be obtained. Who's the big president, I wouldn't go into that debate. Usually with a longer distance, the historical contribution can be measured, the real contribution to the historical contribution, and we may not experience it but our descendants will. As for the costs of the office, this can be seen in the implementation of the Republic of Croatia's budget. So I don't think there are any non-transparentities in terms of the costs of that office, or there were none.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8582	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Radimir Cacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8583	Thank you very much. To a large extent, I agree with Mrs Nada Turine-Djuric's presentation, but what I would like to underline and what I do not think is sufficiently seen here is that thanks to the attitude and clear definition of President Mesic, we have had the opportunity to change a semi-presidential system into today's system. If Mesic stood up to it, it wouldn't be possible. He was elected within the half-presidential system with all the powers he gave, and they are incomparable, he accepted in the agreement, and I know something about it because he was my vice president when he ran for office, we ran the campaign. The truth is here is mentioned and some people who are on the right today participated and not a little participated, took a serious part in this campaign and that is his greatest contribution in any of this constitutional and legal context. Today, too, it is often forgotten. Of course it has nothing to do with money here. I've been a manager my whole life, talking about concrete things, concrete projects. I hate hypocrisy. I hate hypocrisy. That's clearly what I'm saying to you people. We don't lie, what money?- I'm sorry. Every fool in this country spends 500, 600 thousand kuna in politics, not anything. So we're not talking about 500 thousand kuna. What kind of savings, what kind of reforms? Let's stop lying! Are we talking about the legal context of equality and inequality? It's another one of those pathetic demagogue and hypocritical phrases, no matter how kindly it's spoken by Mr. Mlakar. No, we're talking about Stipe Mesic. We're not gonna stop him from doing this. It's an insult to over a million people who voted for him twice. Don't do this, we'll go with the amendment and we'll offer an office and logistics, and we'll form an association.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8584	I thank you, it's been 40 seconds longer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8585	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8586	The next replica, Honorable Representative Milorad Batinic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8587	Thank you, Vice President. Namely, Turkish counterparts, your debate, and the debate of all so far in the Parliament, means that it can only be reduced to a political attack on former President Mesic. In fact, it reads not only from this proposal but also from a series of proposals coming to us from the government as reform, rationalization, savings. What are you saving yourself on? Is that gonna save you something with that? I'm not sure. But here I am talking about something that is said in Croatia, which is political shortsightedness. We are the Croatian state, we have certain rules, we have a certain bonton to say so. That's one thing. Another thing, total hypocrisy. So I can only conclude that the HDZ colleagues support this proposal, because it is not their proposal we must be aware of because it could have been done before, HDZ could have, when it was in power that he wanted to, if he had such an intention, this is the compromise of the Most coalition partner to make a concession, to go with this bill. So, political shopping, trade whatever we want to say. And that's not good, it's just not good. And I'm sure the HDZ colleagues have no intention of that. Further hypocrisy, that was a lot of talk. I don't think that's good. This is not good above all for the perception of the Republic of Croatia not only in Europe but also in the world. Former President Mesic has certain rights and are now being abolished. Okay, let's go with this bill of law let him go, the new president who's going to be that's the topic we might be discussing, but not this.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8588	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8589	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's your colleague today, and I welcome that, given what we heard yesterday from colleagues from Bulj who wrote a warrant and indictment against former President Mesic rightly referred to the objective representation of Mr Stipe Mesic's character and work. However, I will repeat, this is not a story about Stipe Mesic and it should not be, but it is quite clear what these rulings want to say, as the ruling ones have otherwise shown, this bill showed otherwise what they think and how they understand what democracy is and what democratic institutions mean. They just don't like it because they're the ones who proposed this law. It's just how to shut up, how to eliminate a man who's not loud, who's so loud, who's telling the truth more than they'd like to hear. Who speak in the world and at home the same thing, which speaks of antifascism outside as our current officials but who are ashamed to say it at home unlike Stipe Mesic. And that's mostly his biggest crime scene. And so there will be no happiness as long as the ruling doesn't realize that the elections are just a way and the assumption that the government and that they are important, the growth that is important, the development of social, democratic relations and, above all, the institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8590	Thanks will be answered by the distinguished representative Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8591	You're right, fellow Anticevic. What I've already pointed out on several occasions since I was speaking on behalf of the HNS Club, what might actually bother us most here, or what's going to produce a bad echo, a bad effect after this, I suppose, is that we're going to disable in a very positive way the former president's office. And in some ways we're going to make it impossible for any next president to function in such a way over a long period of five years. Yesterday after that debate, several entrepreneurs called me and told me whether it was possible to do so, that the Patriot coalition would in this way judge Mr. Mesic, who throughout a number of times helped a number of entrepreneurs in performances in some foreign markets, to help function their companies, spread their companies, etc. with, of course, your influence. Someone here mentioned that they could have opened up a company because it's a misunderstanding which means the institution of the former president and what is a consulting company. Of course, with a consulting company, no one or the former president has such a position or influence, and in this way he was like an institution in a position to help. And that's what's going to come out of this as the greatest damage to this bill that's proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8592	Thank you very much. And the last replica of the esteemed representative Steve Cule. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8593	Your Honor. What an institution, represented by it, I must remind you of old times again. Here in the first bench was the late War Minister Ivan Vekic, Vladimir Seks and Zarko Domjan in the leading moments for our country. And when Mr. Vekic died, former Interior Minister Ranko Ostojh, as well as this Assembly, in that meeting of the past, did not sympathise with his living lady yet. When we talk about money spent on Mr. Mesic, there's no money, so money isn't even a problem. But the popularity he has, how he acquired it with his vicmaher schemes that he used to tell mostly bad jokes about the account of the late president, walked around and spread lies, lies and all that is not suitable for a man who should have a great reputation and represent someone. And as one of the living relics of past times that we're looking at right now in our neighboring states. What's his message? What's he calling for? What did he represent? He was president of the presidency of the former Yugoslavia. The man who still has his eyes open looks eastward to create a region where he would once again have a place of the great Messiah or some new Yugoslavia that many have not yet seemed to give up. I know well and you know who the president is where he was, where he fought, what he was doing. Is that the man we should be looking at? And further, as far as Jasenovac is concerned, bringing out the lies about Jasenovac, I am telling you this because I know what you are saying about Croatian defenders, as you represent us, I am particularly glad that our youth is up there. In this way, the Department of Internal Affairs at Kotarsko N.o. Sisak, subject, Lavro Djuro, District Court in Sisak in '46. years in Jasenovac. [[Intruder: Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8594	The scoreboard for the breach of the Rules of Procedure was raised by the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8595	For the Honorable Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, a fellow representative has injured the Rules of Procedure, provision of Article 238. Not to repeat what he was saying and how he was acting, the way he had deviated from the general rules of conduct in the House, or the insult of those who were not present to defend themselves at all. Among other crimes, Mr. Mesic is looking from the east, and so I don't know, creating some illusions. We received a representative of the great country from the east at all yesterday, and so did you, Mr. President and most of us. Many, the president of the country, yes, and many, from the east, yes, and many have dressed appropriately for it. So, what does this MP even want to say? What's he saying? I mean, this one or that one, that's the pronoun, I can't show it now because he's so brave to say so he runs away.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8596	Of course you have re-exploited the institution of breach of the Rules of Procedure because you are aware as a lawyer that the Rules of Procedure have not been injured, but I plead with all of you to use such words as are appropriate in this House when we talk about it. Of course, the distinguished representative Nada Turina-Đuric will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8597	He's got no colleagues to answer. I'm just going to warn a colleague who is so in a very distasteful way I'd say not only him, we heard it yesterday on several occasions right from this part of our Parliament but I would remind him. Mr Mesic was a member of HDZ, the founder of HDZ. Mr. Mesic, I remember very well some who are here now, who ran along his laps by 1994, and we also know very well that his head of office was Mr. Karamarko's current president, Mr. Karamarko, so I find them completely incomprehensible, vague discussions that go in this direction where the discussion of colleagues went. So, a minimum of some respect as former HDZ member, as one of the founders of HDZ, when he is already so sworn by him and perhaps because of respect for his current president who was also the leader of Mr Mesic's first campaign and the head of Mr Stjepan Mesic's office.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8598	Thank you very much. That's what we used to beat up on behalf of the Clubs. And now we're moving on to individual debates. She's the first one to be the esteemed representative of Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8599	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, dear ministers. First, I'm going to look back at two fellow MPs who said something about this law today. There's one thing on Mr. Mlakar's statement about my psychicity. He's gone, but maybe he's following, as far as psychicity is concerned, she should be referring to the future, and my so-called psychicity was that I saw his picture in a newspaper as a possible judge of the Constitutional Court and on television his statement that he was interested in it. Therefore, it does not need to be particularly psychic to conclude that a man wants a Constitutional Court and that there should not be particularly psychic to see it. And the second is to Mr. Boban, who in the replica told Mrs. Turini-Djuric that Mr. Mesic was learning from Tudjman, did I interpret well? That Mr. Mesic learned from Tudjman because they collaborated together. Yes, thank you. But Tudjman also learned from someone, and the one who taught, from whom Tudjman taught, would surely have told you Stipi not to pack, so here you see, each one of them teaches something. Yeah. So, looking at the debate on this law, I'm glad Mr. President that my discussions are encouraging for other MPs to communicate with each other. So, looking at the debate on this law, one gets the impression that the government is in power because this law has three arguments. One is the government of 600 thousand kuna, the other is Buljevo this is a political indictment, and the third is Mr. Mlakar, who is rounded up in some form of legal form. And both arguments have nothing to do with each other. So let's first talk about this government explanation of 600 thousand kuna. The government of the Republic of Croatia sent a budget somewhere in March where Mesic was left the same amount as it had been until now, but was therefore taken off to these children for transportation to schools. So by about mid-third month, Mesic was more important to the government than school children. And then those in MOST remembered, let's take off the money from Mesic's office to do something with 600 thousand, and then the amendment was accepted and as some kind of upgrade of that came this bill that talks about 600 thousand kuna and then that the representative of the Most Club actually said what was his most important reason why this law, why the law is changing and there it is, here Mr. Glavas really said in the replica yesterday that because of the qualifications he was making, that the parliamentary immunity does not protect him from possible slander charges. Mr. Mlakar's argument had a certain legal weight but failed to state the essential facts, which is that this is indeed the status of former President Mesic because he had acquired rights when he began if not the first and then his second term in 2005. And indeed, I am convinced that such a bill with this argument and the only formal explanation we have is the Government's argument that the constitutionality of the law will not endure any more than the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the MOST which puts the law into effect on the first day of its publication in the NN. Otherwise, in an explanation of why the law would enter the 1.5th would be to give these officers time to adjust. The argument against it is that the law cannot enter into force on the first day of its publication in the NN because it is left to everyone for exactly 24 hours to adapt. It's really one big adjustment deadline. I think this moving car will already wait for an announcement at the NN there in front of Grškovic to defuse them, so there is a Living Wall to prevent a day if he wants to. And as for Mr. Mlakar's argument, it would have held water in one part if it were the government's official proposal that the treasure was so explained. But the result of the reasoning and the text of the law is disproportionate. So, the text of the law would have to be much easier then to abolish certain rights, not as it says. And now a word, two on Mr Bulj's explanation and the political action of President Mesic. A colleague of Stazic's yesterday listed the functions that President Mesic acted on from the municipal, republican, then state and former SFRY federal level. But he failed to mention another fact, which is that President Mesic is part of this pop and these other musical cultures because there are several songs in which he is said to be listed. One song from Site is "Parties for the Team" which today could have its own song "Kada Bozo and Tomo are partying for the team first to end Stipe". That's because we don't have any other reforms. But that's less important. What made it this way yesterday was the Club of Representatives of MOST better described the second song, and the same famous "Oj Ivica and Stipana will eat you black crows." It is from 2003. Meanwhile, the crows evaluated, they put on hats, they put on shirts, they put on uniforms, they stayed black, but Stipe didn't eat and he won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8600	Thank you. We have a few replicas. He's the first person to represent the Blessed Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8601	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Representative Bauk, I agree with you for telling me through your presentations kind of replicated in my own replica, but you will also agree that this someone Tudjman taught is also from someone he taught. So we could bring it back the way you say it, who knows in what distant history. However, I prefer that a wise man learns the most from the mistakes of any or any of his teachers and thus corrects his attitudes through life and then takes one right course at the very end of his action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8602	The Honorable Representative Arsen Bauk will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8603	I'd like to thank you, counsel. If I understand correctly, you've agreed with me that I've been well-detecting who President Tudjman was learning from because you haven't denied anything. And besides, she kept his bust in the President's office for a long time, so she probably learned the same thing. But I agree that Mr Mesic also learned from the mistakes of the predecessors, or from those he taught. And I think that he was right about the policy towards Bosnia and Herzegovina in one part of what he differed from President Tudjman. Maybe we won't agree on everything. But now that he's learned everything, when he comes to the end of his political career, you're now cutting off his office when he becomes the best in your interpretation. Of course, this is the attitude towards the former presidents and the attitude towards the state institutions, and there should, of course, show some respect for all institutions, both towards President Tudjman, both towards President Mesic and President Josipovic and President Grabar Kitarovic, although he will probably and I knew sometimes a little more leper about institutions when I disagree with what they are doing. Although, of course, there is always a need to make sure that some drawing of correctness does not cross. If he gets over it, he'll apologize nicely and move on. Thank you. And according to President Reiner, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8604	Thank you very much. The next replica is Mila Horvat's esteemed representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8605	Thank you, dear colleague Bauk. Your debate was a very interesting debate, like many. And she encouraged me to come to a conclusion, because you said this was a pretty absurd tripartite government. This is just proof to me how much our policy has become an absurd policy lately. We've been discussing the Office of Presidents seven years ago, and we haven't said anything about it in the past seven years. And a few days ago, we flew seven or eight points out of the financial package in just two hours. In one day, we have crossed 8 points and we say very seriously we approach reform policy. It's another thing. Here they keep mentioning, reminding some that they are Serbs, like Mesic sent messages. A system of freaks and mud. I could say, to call on his message that he has fulfilled his task, there is no more Yugoslavia in Belgrade. It's also his message, but we didn't blame him for it. But he resents those who, most of all, resent him for who he is, the most resented by those who have worked all their political work for the interests of this country and that's the absurdity that confuses me. The position has constitutional-legal experts, some have the ambition to be members of the Constitutional Court, and let this law, which, in its basic character, is a law which is not the usual thing, which is at the border of constitutionality going into debate, the minister here proposes it, explains it, and we talk about it for two days and we all know that it will be a very questionable conclusion if it comes to debate before the Constitutional Court. I won't mention the basic motive, save 600,000 kuna. I mean, that's funny to say. In a situation where analysis will show us how much public systems, agencies spend on their representations. To talk about us saving this budget by getting the president's office and 600,000 kuna is a pretty absurd thing, and a little hypocritical.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8606	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Arsen Bauk will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8607	Good thing we're discussing something that was seven years ago, because we usually discuss something that was 70 years ago. This is still progress in that sense, we've evolved a lot as an institution. As far as the government's reasoning is concerned, we've already said, so it's very clear that it's not an argument that's really an explanation, something was to be written when the bill was sent to the procedure. If it had been written a little bit better, there might have been fewer objections to it, but basically this is a political charge with one person, a political charge, and it's a gun to the water. Nor will President Mesic suffer greatly by having no office, driver and car, nor will the ruling majority be very happy. This is actually one party for a team where here they show that they can do something just because they want it and what they can do. And then after that, when the Constitutional Court shuts it down, they fold their shoulders and tell their fans, here we tried, but it didn't work out. And they'll be happy again. So in the end, everyone will be pleased.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8608	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mark Sladolev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8609	... But Mr. Bulj, and I will not be his lawyer, he is currently in Split marking the anniversary of the 4th Guard Brigade. [[Specially enabled.]] I think he should be there right now. He's eloquent enough to defend himself, when he comes back he'll do it. And as far as Mr. Mesic's financial impact is concerned, I just remember that the only money he brought to Croatia is some checks from Australia that we don't know where they ended up with.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8610	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Arsen Bauk will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8611	As far as you can remember, 26 years you remember, and the institutions haven't done anything about it. As for Mr. Bull, it's not my fault he's not here today. I think the debate continued last night. However, I remember one anniversary of the 4th Guard Brigade where the organized people began to whistle to the commander-in-chief of the military facility and that commander-in-chief was just President Mesic. After that, he won the election convincingly again. Therefore, those who whistled at him would probably whistle at him today, but the people then said it was their president and that it was the commander-in-chief. And now seven years later, those who whistled at him came in opportunity to lift his office. And, well, he'll live.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8612	Thank you. The following will be spoken by distinguished representative Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8613	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So here's what I'm gonna say about this bill. He says one saying to know that we need to know why first. So I'm gonna go with this. 'Cause we heard here yesterday afternoon and today a lot of thoughts, so I'm gonna go from one of my corners. The basic question is why is there a former president's office in the first place? What's that? Is that some kind of mystery, a 2004 deal? Were those some kind of deal under the table, above? I don't know. The time of the adoption of the law in 2004, for the evening of the next presidential elections in 2005. Was the former president who may have been president at that time afraid, perhaps he was looking for some sort of solution for later? I really don't know, it's also the first year of that new government in 2004. After 12 years away, we have a new experience that says that there are different solutions for former presidents that the government doesn't decide at all. Not even a law that's in force, but an individual. He decides how and what he wants when he becomes the former president. What does practice say? We have two offices of former presidents. The former president's office in Grskovicjevo 13, a decorated beautiful villa and we have former President Ivo Josipovic's office at the Faculty of Law. Two presidents, two practices, one law and the same. The will of an individual above the laws or obligations of the law. Let's pass it on to some other law. I'd pay my taxes, I wouldn't pay my taxes. I wouldn't know in the range of some punishments I'd be five years, I wouldn't even be a year, I'd maybe seven years if I could. That's the law. I'd like an office, I wouldn't want an office. Who supports such laws? SDP. They support the choice of individuals above the law. These are the laws they passed. Individual, for an individual above the law. You don't have to stick to the law like a drunk float, let everyone interpret it as he wills. What kind of law is that? I say it's obviously problematic. If we were on the right track, she recognized the former SDP government. And that wasn't exactly the question they wanted to solve either, but they came in for a while and they said let's limit it to five years, that's enough. And, of course, passed the law. There was nothing against them then or anything but the Constitutional Court said we'd take down some provisions and remain the same. If it was some kind of fictitious story, I don't know. But even then, for example, the HNS club was fierce against the law and discussed it quite differently from its coalition partners. But it didn't bother because when the SDP is, then they can do anything, especially if they're in power. I remember at that time the presentation of counterpart Jelusic, he said, we must reduce the privileges of political caste. The ex-wife's entitled to an office for five years, and that's enough. That would have expired somewhere in two years or if we were counting from '10. When he became president, he'd sort of go through with it. However, today's modern reset SDP says something else entirely. Because that's the way it's supposed to be, catch a political point on a subject that really shouldn't be interested in the public this much, but that's the way it is. In order to have an ex-president's office, 700 thousand kuna was to be spent first on editing space, I guess we forgot that, but we didn't. And then last year he asked a parliamentary representative a question to the government of Zoran Milanovic, MP Ivo Simunovic, if you remember him. And what does the government say? We paid former President Stjepan Mesic in 5 years almost 330 thousand kuna on travel, the 216 thousand team and more than half a million kuna spent on various intellectual services such as counselling or study. Stjepan Mesic is entitled to the office of the former president at the expense of taxpayers. In total, 3.9 million kuna was spent on its operation in 5 years. Not 600 grand, 3.9 million kuna. Otherwise, Mr. Ex-President isn't getting paid, he's just getting a pension. For example, he spent 134 thousand on office material in 5 years and on the promotion of 127,000 kunas. The telephone, mail and transport cost more than half a million kuna to taxpayers, carriers. So we know everything, the former government gave an answer and today we hear it's something else entirely. Another former president of the Croatian citizen costs nothing but that salary he makes neatly as a professor at law school and work should be paid. And that's not at all controversial to the SDP, although it came from their ranks unfortunately made him, unfortunately, their former, their little diversions in the presidential elections but their breakup was all but sunny weather. While former President Ivo Josipovic spoke about former President Stipe Mesic's office, the former president's office would be needed only if we were to expect something from him. It means the former president and the one who was then president didn't expect anything. We should expect something the SDP offers as a story. Of course Mesic in his style did not remain in debt to Ivo Josipovic for such a single remark to answer as he knows it. What are the privileges of the former president? Personal driver, official vehicle, physical protection, equipped office, two employees, possibility of returning to work. In the event of the death of the President of the Republic of Croatia, the cost of the funeral is borne by the Republic of Croatia. It is said from the SDP that Mesic, many, many, many travels and that it is useful for the Republic of Croatia and indeed these trips have dozens in the past time, Beijing,... Astana, Baku, Azgabat,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Andora... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] etc. and up to one trip that was as he says incognito... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We don't need to know anything about this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And all right. And now the SDP says he needs to stay in his office because the former travels and that nothing costs Croatian taxpayers because it travels on call and pays him everything. And that's great. If he's an ex with an office and he's traveling, I think he can, if nothing costs a trip as ex and without an office. Here's the solution. I think with that, it says logic. Then what would be the problem, why does he have to... to travel? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Every Croatian citizen travels as he organizes himself. So it's not all about that after all. But I think that's a solution without an office, too. Some have tried to figure it out, i.e. This discussion of ours is aware that we're dealing with someone because it's just some kind of small savings and we've seen it's not small. But it shows a saying, a grain of cake, a stone for a stone for a palace. And what happens in the end? They say from the SDP, it will fall in the Constitutional Court. They always knew what would fall in the Constitutional Court and when they passed the laws, they didn't know and they kept falling. There is experience, but they know everything in the opposition, when they were in power, nothing. Personally, I would have abolished this law if it didn't exist at all. ... Any recommendation that we resolve this right that he has on physical protection through some other law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But here, this is a good start. And as a SDP, they don't support it. I think they support it, but there's a policy point to take. We heard today, Stipe was everything in his life as former president, he was the president of the SFRJ presidency, the Prime Minister, the president of the parliament, two terms of office of the president of the Republic of Croatia, one term of the former president, will remain the former president. But the other day he says he's going back to politics. One more question, if you're going back to politics, then you have to leave this office. Is that a rule of law? I think so. There's no office, you're a free politician, you go back to politics, you're doing what you've got because in history there's going back to the famous old, good boxers from when boxing was worth something. We know how he got back I don't know Jo Frazier and how he got back Muhammad Ali. What will Stipe Mesic do with it? We will see, they will show time, and of course the people who judge about all of us and not just him, both right and wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8614	Thank you very much. And your exposure has caused more replicas. The first one is the distinguished MPs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8615	You say, colleague, you're surprised at the existing law, the positive law that you say is problematic, you're surprised that something that allows someone and doesn't allow someone. This law, proposed by HDZ in 2004, which you are now investigating, which you call problematic rights talks, does not speak of duties. It's a law that speaks of the rights of the former president or president of the Republic of Croatia. Whether a former president or president will use it or not, it is again in the domain of their will and choice. So you can't respect the law here. Some laws create rights or obligations. This is exclusively your proposal for a law that we have supported, and then as an opposition, the president has the right to respect the president's institution by respecting democratic institutions, respecting himself and the Republic of Croatia. But you have a problem with me seems to be, and that's what we want to talk about openly. That you are very inconsistencies with other people's presidents, with foreign presidents to whom we should have respect and we give up on our own. As others will then respect us, we are a small country that can only have respect on the basis of the continued and some value that we represent together. Otherwise I say this is not a good reason. So you've found a way to eliminate a man you don't like and you're saying that even those 600 grand, I wouldn't ignore a kuna, but what we're discussing for two days and the final effect must be 500 thousand kuna. So the way we've been spending two days discussing this is more than the effects of this law. Therefore, it is quite clear that you want to get rid of Mr Stipe Mesic but Stipe Mesic will be an institution without your office. And someone won't be an institution even though it's and lives in a certain office. [[/Intruder President: Thank you. You've missed a lot of time.]] You have to take care of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8616	Thank you. Dear Representative Josip Boric will answer and ask him to stick to time unlike his colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8617	Thank you very much, President. My colleagues, law and obligation, so I talked about it. And what you finally found out, he'll be ex-office regardless of the office. I showed it logically and proved it if you followed me well. He can travel as an ex-president with those businessmen. Look, he's not obliged at all to hand over the property card, he can receive the gift, so we agree, so when you're doing the benefit of the shipyard, the Uljanica, or some of them and they benefit from you, so you travel well with them and the thing is solved. I mean, what's the problem here? I don't see him. He has certain rights, obligations almost nothing anymore. And now we say by your model he can choose what he wants to be and the government can't make a decision because he's an ex. So she can make a decision, why shouldn't she make a decision. But that's to you, you have a problem with the credibility of the SDP, I don't know if you're taking care of it or if it's not important to you at all. And I keep reminding you what you've been doing. And I said you wanted it in a different way. You will be 5 years old, we are fighting political caste and their privileges and that is enough, Ivo Jelusic said. Now tell me something else here. But you've changed that law or it didn't work out or we've been playing here in the House about that law, so say it clearly that we've been playing. Because it only comes down to these kind of pants on your part doesn't make any sense. You were changing the law in 2013 and you said it wasn't anti-constitutional then. And he came to the Constitutional Court, and they lifted the decrees which you brought. Now, I'm asking you if you brought it into agreement with Mesic, so it's all the same, or if you really wanted to limit it to five years. You have to decide what you want to be in life. I remember your discussions, [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8618	First of all, in time I warn, my colleague was right in time, and you've exceeded 32 seconds and I didn't warn you. So, please. The next replica will be the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8619	Thank you very much. Mr. Boric, in your debate you also touched Mr. Mesic's return to politics, probably not a man sleeping at night thinking about whether he can compete with you in the political ring, right? He's nervous because he knows how dangerous a political rival you are and he's thinking about whether to get into that story at all because he knows there's almost no way to argue with you. But joke aside. What is important is to say that the state is worth the value of its institutions, and we are coming up here and throwing ourselves into the mud of the institution of the president of the Republic of Croatia, many countries in the world, for example, said a colleague of Italy, that we are not talking to some others have the role of former president and provide him with certain security and the possibility of further political action. So these people don't have too many. In practice it becomes a few people and we have now decided because of 600 thousand kunas what to kill is not a reason but because we demagoguely justify our unhappiness over the past three months, or your unhappiness over the past three months, to throw one topic in which we have been discussing here another day. But what is important is to discuss that there are no proposals from others and that this topic is therefore on the agenda and, of course, the personal animosity of HDZ and its President Karamark, who was his closest associate in 2000 and who spoke about how Croatia should be detudjmanised, that they were killed at the time on the project, and that today Karamarko should be washed from Mesic and that is the only reason why this law is passed, no 600 thousand kunas, no grains, no cakes, no stone, no palaces.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8620	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Josip Boric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8621	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, from your party company was an interesting record of one of your colleagues telling Maras to listen, boycott and reroute, remember that? I heard this first. I can't boycott because you said if I could redirect you. I don't think I can. You've got your own line and go ahead. As far as your criteria are concerned, they're double everything. They're really a question of your credibility. So remember for a little while what's been going on for the last year. Let's say the president's election question. We propose, we elect a president in the Parliament, Milanovic says no, directly. When Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic was elected, the current president they say let's go pick him now in the Parliament, we no longer find it interesting. That's the story. When you propose amendments to that law in 2013 it is great, limited to 5 years and we wanted to preserve the institutions of the president. Now that we want to end it, then you say no, it should stay because that's how the president's institutions are valued. And so on and so forth, every day we listen to those stories of yours. You're just saying we've been doing nothing for three months. Are you going to be your three months first? Well, I was here. 25% electricity, electricity, 25%, 20% gas, 20% or 30% heating, and you come in here and do a show at 19 kuna for a health supplement. Did you forget that? So multiply times 12 times 4 years. These are your measures in the first three months, and everything else not to count. The agreement of the authorities throughout the year and the amendments to the law in order to reconcile power. We don't do that. But the laws will come and then we'll discuss them as well as this law reasoned and prove who or who may not be right.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8622	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8623	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Boric. So from a legal point of view, colleague Antičević Marinovic explained this part of the law rather than the obligation. So, in my opinion, in the future, it could happen and why not the president, former President Josipovic or former President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, come to the office tomorrow and continue to work where their predecessor started or even to work together on the welfare of the Republic of Croatia. So, the office of the former president of the Republic of Croatia is an institution and we cannot speak in this way banally now if we cancel the office then the president will remain former. Then he's a citizen like any other. So in order for him to be the former president, in order to represent the interests of the Republic of Croatia, he must have his own office. You said that, you counted how much it costs, but you didn't actually answer, you said it a little bit so ironicly. His visits. How much use did the Republic of Croatia or the economy of the Republic of Croatia benefit from its visits to certain countries? You don't know that. I don't know either. If I knew now, I'd tell you, but I guess there's a benefit. True, they are not so easy to measure. And now this thesis of your reverse thesis. You say he's going back to politics. No, you're pushing him out of politics. He's in politics. If we look at politics as the most general work for the common good, so you're forcing him to defend himself, of course. He says he will then return to politics as counterpart Cacic said. Well, somebody's gonna pay for his office then, so the man's gonna be in business and he's gonna keep doing what he's been doing. But you didn't say what he was doing badly in terms of damage to the Republic of Croatia. And you listed everything Stipe Mesic was. I'll tell you. Stipe Mesic was in '67. The year won as an independent candidate and became mayor of Orahovica, '67. A year. It's not because of the return to history, but to say that Stipe Mesic has a certain weight in politics, he's had it forever, he's got it today. And because of this, it might be a good solution how fellow Bulj yesterday agreed to charge him with conviction, put him in jail, and then he won't be, there will be even less cost to the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8624	Thank you. The honourable representative Josip Boric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8625	Thank you very much. Now I didn't understand my colleague, Sagar, this is your explanation, whether it's in politics or not, because if it's what you'd be coming back to. Is it? It is. So what's he coming back for? I mean, that doesn't make sense. If it's in there then you're done. What are you talking about coming back? That's it. You were talking about law. The Constitution. Well, we had decisions from the former government, constitutional decisions. Let's say the decision on the return of Cyrillic plates in Vukovar in the way you did it, so the whole story about how it was spinning you claimed it was constitutional, the rest of them didn't, so the Statute of the city of Vukovar, so it was constitutional, so it wasn't, so the minister who left didn't want to evaluate it, so he sent it to the Constitutional Court. But he had his own opinion and he did it the last day before he stopped being a minister and such games around the Constitution. That's what you were doing. We didn't forget that! If this is against constitutionality, then I guess it'll fall somewhere in the Constitutional Court. If he's not, then he'll stay and give as much as a law that's worth it. As far as this citizen is concerned, like everyone else. That's exactly what everybody else does. A former president of a citizen like everyone else. It was his motto in all the campaigns he was winning. Did you forget that too? He always said he was part of the people, his people, and he won the elections. And now we say a citizen like everyone else, no, he's a former and he has to be an institution. And how he treated his predecessor, and that doesn't matter. Well, it doesn't matter, obviously. Like Josipovic, Mr Ivo Josipovic towards Mr Stjepan Mesic. But the other one was much lighter. But he said he should, then he'd be a legitimate office. But he doesn't need it in anything. And now we're taking care here, you especially in the SDP that you wanted to change and you changed it the way you made it and you wanted to limit its mandate. That's a fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8626	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Jaroslav Pecnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8627	Thank you. Mr. Boric, you said you asked if we needed an office of the former president. You have actually turned one principled question into a conversation about Mr. Mesic's character and work. I can agree with you or with those who resent him. I was recently in Jasenovac where he gave a speech as president of an anti-fascist who, in my opinion, was a very polite speech. But of course when he said that whoever sings Ustasha songs is Ustasha, and then you must not smile because he sang Ustasha songs too. Yeah? That's what I do, but you can blame him so much, but this question must not be turned into a question about Mr. Mesic's character and work, rather than whether we need an office or not. In competent countries, it is a good custom for the former president to have his own office. I'll give an example of only the Czech Republic where I lived, where I went to school. So let's say President Havel has an office there and it's an institution that's developed publishing activity, a huge job and a team is behind it. That's what the state pays for, of course. Although Mr. Havel was of course deceased but that office still exists in some way still functioning and, of course, possibly with Mr. Havel's private capital which was a rich man so... He's been given a lot back. [[You don't understand.]] You don't need what's good practice to end. We need to see what Mr Mesic, or that former president, can do. The argument that Mr. Josipovic does not use this is no argument. He could use it if he wants. I think that's how it should be. And this cost of 600,000 you know, and you yourself, that's a story for little children, it's actually a poorly disguised reckoning with Mr. Mesic on your part. I don't mean from your own person. I mean HDZ. And the question of credibility? So let's not play with credibility issues. Mr. Karamarko is a paradigm of credibility, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8628	Thank you very much. Interestingly, no one's ever done any damage to the Rules of Procedure for insults. Well, here you go, colleague Joseph Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8629	Thank you. What I tried to prove through my discussion is justified and logically, it is necessary to lay down double criteria or double rights under the same law that then depend on the individual and his choice, not what the law requires. I will, I won't. As well as paying taxes, I said. I want to pay for it, I won't pay for it. Such legal certainty, such a legal system speaks of itself and needs to be corrected. This law corrects it even though I said my opinion that I would solve it differently but I'm not in that situation. And let's keep it the way it is, the parliamentary majority will pass the law or they won't bring it. The Constitutional Court to which we all have the right to send its play or complaint or already on the assessment of the constitutionality of such a law will give its opinion on such a bill. Will they give it in a year, 7 months, 3 months let them do it. And what Mr Mesic is saying, I will not comment, my debate did not go in terms of assessing his political action. But I listed everything he was and no one can take it away from him. And he was elected president of the Republic of Croatia twice with his story. Whether it was successful or not, we've been through it. And now we have a new situation, but on the other hand, we have an insistence on double criteria depending on who likes someone more or less. And if you're suggesting to us as some kind of hidden reckoning, it's not at all. And we said and explained why this law was passed. And it is not 600,000 kuna, the government of Zoran Milanovic said 4 million, 3.9 million kuna was spent in 5 years. Don't twist that. It's a mandate, it's a year, it's a lifetime thing for life. And it's not 600 grand. And then you're being refuted by the story of traveling for free and at no cost.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8630	Thank you very much. The next replica is the distinguished MPs of Gordana Sobol, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8631	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Boric, is here, and you have now repeated the office of former President Mesic in 5 years spent 3.9 million kuna. I will now repeat what I said yesterday, I don't know if you were there, so you may not have heard, but it is very hypocritical of you to talk about your savings by abolishing the right of former President Mesic and at the same time you don't want to say a word or object when the government at its first session immediately adopted a regulation that allowed two vice presidents, Karamarko and Petrov, to use 24-hour police protection and their families. Well, my dear colleague, this year, not for five years, is about 3.5 million kuna a year, the cost of this country. For what? To feed Karamarko and Petrov their own ego, I guess, to make them look bigger in their own eyes. From whom to protect them? Never in Croatia have the vice-presidents of the government had police protection in this way unless they were acting as foreign minister, interior minister or defence minister. But no, the two of them needed police protection at first and their families. I'll do it again. It's about 3.5 million kuna on the annual level. So Madam Minister, that's a nice contribution to your desire to streamline the costs of the state administration. You didn't say a word then either.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8632	The honourable representative Josip Boric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8633	Thank you very much. It's interesting when you tell us hypocrites. We hypocrites? And how do you justify flying on a plane to Krk and a helicopter in Rijeka? That's not hypocrisy. That didn't cost anything?- I'm sorry. Did it not cost anything or did we not get along? Well, give me some! Well, you were the government until two, three months ago. I said you were reset to the status of the opposition, and suddenly we were nothing, not somebody else. I guess those protected people were some other people. It was neither Milanović nor Rajko Ostojić nor Milanka Opačić nor Fred Matic, no one was. We didn't do anything, we didn't do anything. Well, come on, it's not that far. If you told us that in the fourth year of office or in the third year, I'd understand that, but after three months?- I'm sorry. And we've been trying to find out for almost a year how much it's cost some travel, say the former minister who's been sitting here not far from you. We heard recently how much it cost to travel some others, etc. But what is it that you're mixing with this problem and the savings? Well, it says here that you said four million kunas were spent. And we say we shouldn't spend that much more and it's not 600 grand but 4 million in 5 years. You wrote it. And we say there's no cost, there's no physical protection that's then paid from another part. And that's it. And you don't need to be people for that. Because you wanted to limit that mandate to five years and you said it was a political normal decision to fight the privilege... And now it's not anymore. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You're going to have to add up a little bit and get a little cohesion and work on the credibility issue and a little less hypocritical because you're recently out of power. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8634	Thank you. And the next replica and also the last one is the distinguished representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8635	By listening to your speech, Mr. Boric, I wasn't just listening to the words you say, I closed my eyes and listened to the tune, the intonation, the color of your voice. In it I heard liquefying, one sweetness in voice, one unpaved pleasure that fate gave you the opportunity to decide on Mr Mesic, who is a 40-year factor in political life. You know when someone happens to be insignificant, small, insolent, uninteresting, politically boring, irrelevant in domestic and international proportions. When someone will be forgotten as long as there is, when someone is former while they are present, when someone finds himself in a position to decide on bigger than himself, more significant than himself, then it's the fourth motive, it seems to me the most important thing besides the three that Arsen Bauk mentioned, 600 thousand kuna savings, some legal framework and political dissension. This fourth one so visible in the color of your voice seems to me the most important motive. It is this jealousy of the insignificant over the great, jealous one who will be forgotten over the one who will be forgotten even after you have abolished his office. You will be forgotten on the last day of your term, Stipe Mesic will remain a historical figure in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8636	Thank you. The honourable representative Josip Boric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8637	Thank you very much, colleague Stazic, for your kind words. I would not say what you have said to me now, because you too will be remembered as one small, insignificant, as you say to the politician of questionable moral values he imposes on everyone. Because if I had what you have, or if I had said what you said here as vice president of the Parliament, I probably wouldn't be sitting here, that my conscience wouldn't let me. You justified the crimes of communism on the naked island, and that was normal for you. You crash some official car, nobody cares, you ride some ships, military ships around Brijuni, someone signed it, maybe former President Mesic, I don't know if it's or isn't, or someone else, and it doesn't bother you. Why? Because the left is used to double criteria for decades, double rules. Everything you're allowed to do to someone else isn't. And don't, I'm telling us, at least in this new time where we think we're living to instruct such things. All small, nothing smaller than you, I'm as one as you are 151. And with such a speech you will surely be remembered in this House and in the history of Croatia as a great politician of wise thoughts who reduced every problem of the left to satire and everything that was on the right hand side should have ended up in prison. Unfortunately, it characterizes you and you're not ready to look in your backyard, you see a log in someone else's eye and you don't see that little thorn in yours. You'll have a problem with that and in future time. Because if death is fascism, freedom to the people of friends and comrades of the 21st century I can only think where they should end up with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8638	Thank you very much. Now we'll move on to the next speaker and that'll be the distinguished representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8639	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's a little hard to start a debate when you hear a public representative say it's bad to say death to fascism, freedom to the people. That it is bad to say in the Croatian Parliament and that someone will be remembered negatively. Mr. Boric, this is what modern Europe and our homeland are based on. And try not to give any more in the future. So on that side, if it was also the contribution of former President Mesic that such consciousness is developing in the Republic of Croatia has been done a lot, and I am convinced that it will also be remembered. What's the problem here, this isn't about something that would give us a substantial aid to Croatia, savings, 600 thousand kuna is a meaningless amount of what we have to do in the coming years and what we have to save for the next years. Let me remind you of my HDZ colleagues, the government of the former when it came into position has found a deficit of 25 billion kuna in the state budget. When she left 3 months ago, you see that deficit and now, according to EUROSTAT, 10 billion kuna. When you turn down these two figures of 15 billion kuna and divide that 600,000 kuna turns out that you should save 25 thousand former presidents' offices and that way you would do the job that we've done that speaks enough of the meaninglessness of this proposal and that it has nothing to do with the savings and that there's no rationalization there. The reasons are just the opposite. It is primarily about personal accounting, the frustrations of HDZ and Karamark with past relations, until 2000 when Karamarko said he was killed by President Mesic a people's man, that he was modest, that he was doing things the way he should do and now he wants to wash away from his past. And on the other hand, there are complexes and frustrations of another part of the coalition that has done nothing or suggested the last three months, and then sleazyly when it gives the amendment to the budget, it puts it in the public as its great success. Indeed, they have been very successful in three months by proposing to save 600 thousand kuna on former President Mesic, I would say these are reforms, only reforms, a hasgtag only reforms, a truly great success of MOST. On the other hand, someone has already said because of the petty vanity of the sense of importance millions of kunas and Karamarko and Petrov have insurance from 0-24, their family also spends 100 thousand kuna per person per month on this country. 25 average trade wages are spent to ensure that Bozo Petrov has 0-24 insurance, so that Tomislav Karamarko has 0-24 insurance and 25 more average trade wages are spent on members of their family. That's what money's for. It was agreed by the secretary of the administration who, by the way, works until Friday at 4 p.m., after which you can't get it. These are the savings and reforms offered by the existing coalition and which will lead them to Croatia's boom. Another reason other than personal accounting is the lack of any initiatives and proposals. The only initiatives worth mentioning but unfortunately negative over the past three months are raising mandatory health insurance for 19 kuna and retirement from 65 to 67 years. These are suggestions made by the Patriot coalition and MOST, and I should also say one such SPIN, one such debate to draw attention from these issues, because those 19 kn that will burden our pensioners and those who need it most is not interested in the former law on the former president of the Republic of Croatia or those 6 hundred thousand kuna that will be reportedly usefully saved every year. What I particularly want to stress is that I assume it supports the entire coalition that supports our government, and I'm sorry that so socially sensitive and thrifty are not at local levels. For example, it is difficult to comment here at all when several representatives who make up the Milan Bandić club 365 are not present almost and never, I see now whether the gentleman, is not here either, means, former member of the Manjin Club, Bilek, means three representatives who are almost never sensitive enough to, for example today Milan Bandic is getting 55 million kuna official vehicles for the city of Zagreb and thus burdens our citizens and spends no sense of their tax which is the largest in Croatia. So there is no such sensitivity here, with MPs Miodrag Dema, Mrs Perkovic and Mr Bilek, we are not talking about savings, and here we are talking about the dispensation of the money of the citizens of the city of Zagreb that is collected from the cut that is the largest in the Republic of Croatia for the mayor to drive tomorrow in a luxury vehicle worth nearly a million kuna in some media. So you shouldn't stick to two different criteria when you're suggesting something in the Assembly one and a very different way locally. And the third reason I see is the desire to silence President Mesic who said I did a lot of work on the international affirmation of the Republic of Croatia which he did a lot of things and in economic work helping our companies to place their products but what apparently bothers people most in the coalition of the Patriot and Most is what he says. The other day he said if something moves like a duck, looks like a duck, votes like a duck, then it's probably a duck. So he said, if someone talks like Ustasha, looks like Ustasha, probably and is Ustasha, and that's what bothers one part of the people who's been pushing our country back for decades, and in this way they want to silence it and make it impossible for it to work, but believe me, there will be many in the Republic that will allow President Mesic to work and be active and in the future it doesn't have to be provided by this government, it will ensure that if any or some opposition parties need to be. There will be no problem if Mr Mesic has the conditions to continue working as the most normal person and president of our country's former president. What we as advocates were obliged to do and as a state were to do, which is to protect our country's institutions and it was, twice chosen with over a million votes, so our fellow citizens were proud of the way it represented we were obliged to protect that institution and allow it to work in this way. If they do not want to take that responsibility, those who are now in position will believe those who are not in a position right now, but who care for the same or similar values as President Mesic does. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8640	Thank you. And your exposure has caused more replicas. She's the first of those respected representatives of Dari Hrebak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8641	... that it may be good, I agree with you, and it is not good for every council representative not to attend the sittings. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] You've established it for Club Bandic Milan. And I agree with you here. But I think it's time for you to take off your SDP glasses and take a look at the front row. In the first row, Mr. Zoran Milanovic, president of the SDP, should sit down, the person I have seen as a parliamentary representative so far 3 times 20 minutes. So enough time for one good hockey game in the last four months at a government presentation, another time at a budget presentation, and that would be that. But I wouldn't want this debate now to come down to fighting who was more, who was less. I'll agree in one part of your debate that I won't even enter the part about whether the abolition of the former president is savings or not. I wouldn't go into the debate, nor in the controversy whether it's right for one former president to be in a more unequal position than another former president. When one is entitled to five years, the other has the right to benefits for the rest of his life. But I'm going to ask one logical question in itself, which we didn't talk much about today during the debate. Does former President Stipe Mesic have the electoral legitimacy, to represent the country and implement the state's foreign policy since he has been the former six years, and the last voter to vote for him voted for him exactly 10 years ago. Namely, what it's about. I think it was not a good message that without consulting with Croatian diplomacy, so either left or right, former President Mesic went on an incognito visit no more than North Korea. Today is the least known, we don't know what he's been up to there, if we've established any bilateral cooperation with that dictatorial country. Which we essentially sent a message to not only the Croatian public, but to the entire diplomatic world. It's a topic that should also be discussed when we talk about this topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8642	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Gordan Maras will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8643	Thank you very much, Mr. Hrebak. Club members can be present at the session and that's enough to hear the club's views. I'm telling you there's not a single member of this party's club I mentioned earlier. In the day when they spend 55 million kuna on official cars, on the other hand they demand a savings of 600 000 kuna. As for former President Mesic, I will remind you he has won twice. Last time in 2005, he won a million 454 thousand votes in the Republic of Croatia. How the average life span in the Republic of Croatia lasts 72, three years, and since then it has been 10 years. It means that today there are many more than a million people living in Croatia who voted for him at the time. And believe me, maybe if he had the chance to compete, in 2010, he'd be re-elected. He has not the legitimacy, but the great legitimacy to represent the Republic of Croatia by means of all those duties he has performed in the past. He's been elected twice, Prime Minister, President of the Parliament. So many countries would be happy if such a person wanted to be active and still represent the country. So that legitimacy is not questionable at all. And you'll see he's showing himself by some other stuff. So it doesn't matter what he's ex. He often makes statements that are more relevant in public and society accepts them better than many, not many, but a large majority of current politicians. When something says Mr Mesic it has more weight than many others who are active in politics that have now gained confidence. So I think what you said about him having no legitimacy doesn't stand. I think it has legitimacy and that this legitimacy should be used as a state.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8644	Thank you very much. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Steve Cule.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8645	Dear President, it's me again about the past, when we're stuck in the past, let's get it over with. I guess we'll be done with her today, so someone can go to the history store where he belongs. A man who goes to Jasenovac and talks there about only one victim, which is not nice, is not appropriate because there were many more victims. And for those victims to be mentioned, I will give my little pain in the light of this gray-colored document of old, brown as a matter of fact. He says: “The Department of Interior at the Kotar National Committee in Sisak, number 3407/46 of 6.9.1946. The subject of Lavrnja Đuro from Galdrov, endured punishment on No. 148/46 of 30.5.1946. Bania District Court, Sisak. It shall be reported that the person concerned has endured the sentence of forced labour without deprivement of liberty for 2 months and 4 days. He supported the fine from 24.6.1946 to 28.8. 1946 as a worker at the Jasenovac Forced Labour Office." I repeat, in 1946. It was ruled by the title of the verdict number and subject to the above. Death to fascism, freedom to the people. Head of the St. Petric section." Enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8646	Thank you very much. The Honorable Representative Gordan Maras will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8647	I just don't know what you're going to say about this right now. So I don't know what you're saying? I think the camp worked when it worked during the Ustasha regime, marked on the day the innocent victims tried to break through and free from that camp, when a lot of people died there and during the unfortunately unfortunate 4 years still much, much more. And what's the problem with going there to honor the victims? Well, he left this year, though, for the first time in his life and in his cover, and your president. So what you read now has nothing to do with Jasenovac or what Stipe Mesic was saying there and how he warned about some things from the past that should never happen again. So don't confuse yourself or the public with any totally unrelated things. All victims should bow down, and I say once again Mr Mesic has done much to make Croatia affirm and often talk about Croatia choosing the victory side during World War II thanks to the anti-fascist movement. I don't know if you know it in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is mentioned and are referring to the documents of ZAVNOH. And on that side, we can be happy that as a country, we were on the side of the winner during World War II and not on the side of the defeated fascist forces. So I'm proud of it, and I don't see what the problem is that Mr. Mesic honors any victims or those who unfortunately died in Jasenovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8648	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8649	Thank you very much. My colleague Maras, you started your discussion, it's hard to talk when someone says it, and then you quote what they said, and he didn't actually say it. And it's not hard for you to praise the bearer of the following statements, here's Mr. Cacic here, so I'm ashamed to say this, the bearer you're praising said about Mr. Cacic, "Chacic is a gangster over gangsters." About Serbs, "I didn't know there were so many Chetniks in Split. All Serbs under one umbrella will stop." I'm sorry there is no Mile Horvat here, "Serbs will take from Croatia as many countries as they have brought on the popes." About Jews, "Some Jews behave like Nazis". About the Herzegovites, "Herzegovians are scorpions, you crush the Bosnian-Herzegovina Croats". Or about Croatians in Croatia, "There are bastards in Croatia, in the Evening List there are Ustashaids, in the Morning Trash, they are gathered around theatres of character." About defenders, "Operation Maslenica is manipulation. The funerals of the defender can be cheaper, so who will pay as much as 5 funerals a day?" "Tudjman is as guilty of war as Milosevic." Is it the language of an emotional microcry or is it a verbal adolescent excess? It doesn't matter to me, but can you praise this? And what would you think if one of us had said something like this? Would you praise him and fight for his rights that should not be enjoyed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8650	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Gordan Maras will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8651	Honestly, Mr. Maric, I don't know the authenticity of these statements. I don't know whose statements they are or who they are or where you pulled them from, but we're still talking about the fact that it's obviously personal reasons why this law is being abolished. So you have to figure out two things, the president of the state is an institution and we're defending him. A million and 450 thousand people never in history except for President Tudjman's ok, but since 2000, he has not received such support in any election. So what did she say? So, if any of his statements were controversial, for some of these I hear for the first time, but if some were controversial obviously voters in the Republic of Croatia, they didn't mind. Man is a style, he has a certain personality but that's not why anyone likes him more or less to change the law and that the institution of the president of the Republic of Croatia in that way I'd say we throw him in the mud. So, this is how we send a message that we do not care about a man who has twice received the trust of Croatian citizens in such a large way and that simply because of his opportunities at this time, we want to limit his political action. And once again, I will tell you today what President Mesic says has much more weight than you and I say. There are, among people, absolutely there are. Well, here's what I'm talking about. But don't be angry with you, too. So his statement today has much more political weight than the two of us. And that's what I'm signing.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8652	Thank you very much. The next replica will be the esteemed representative of Maria Klobučić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8653	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague, Maras, I couldn't really focus on what you were saying, so there was a little bit about health reform and a little about pension reform and a little about Bandic and what kind of procurement he was doing in the city. That wasn't exactly the subject. But then you touched the institutions of the office of the former president, but you focused on Stipe Mesic. I don't think Stipe Mesic is a topic, but this institution and all past presidents and those who will become past. In all this, you have sent an important message on the protection of the Vice President's family. So, I invite you to come to Metkovic and see if Mr. Bozo Petrov and his family enjoy that 24-hour protection. From what I've seen, and often I'm down there, they don't enjoy it. So that's what he's right to do, but that's not the right thing to do. Of course, it is a security assessment that such needs for protection do not exist. If that need is important and needs, of course, it will likely benefit him. The MOST will continue to send such messages that it will not use them systematically and will respect what the system requires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8654	The Honorable Representative Gordan Maras will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8655	Thank you, Mr. President. A respected colleague, but why make such a decision in the first place? So, we've made a decision, well, Vice President Petrov is benefiting himself, is he using Vice President Karamarko? And you understand, there's no point in making a decision if someone doesn't use it. So some decision was made for a certain reason, otherwise it wouldn't have been made. It's costing something, I honestly don't see any reason to have an escort and vice president. Here's your colleague, Cacic, who was the first Deputy Prime Minister in the former government for a while, had no police protection, no one was following him or is that... Well, no, I think the police have made an assessment, and then and now they're probably worth the same criteria. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And I don't see why my colleague Petrov would be more endangered by anything than Mr. Cacic in the previous government. The same status in the government of the strategic partner...... Yeah, only maybe he's physically a little weaker, but he's probably faster. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So on the other hand, on the other hand, it is a totally unnecessary cost that costs Croatian citizens 100,000 kuna every month. But it needs to be repeated, and we're going to do it all the way. So at this point you're looking for savings from 600 thousand kuna at the level of the entire year and Vice President Petrov spends 100 thousand kuna on his insurance every month. ... Okay, it's not family, but he spends 100,000 kunas every month. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] 25 salaries in a shop in the Republic of Croatia are spent on Mr Petrov's insurance.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8656	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8657	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, you spoke of former President Mesic as a man who affirmed the Republic of Croatia after his term as former president. I hope you thought of a visit to North Korea and the affirmation produced there by the Republic of Croatia. I believe that, as he affirmed Croatia's interests when he became president with those votes, I believe it was a hoax of the people and of yours and his, in common, given that you supported him. Because then we didn't know what he said... Then we didn't know what kind of testimony it was until... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] what he did against the Republic of Croatia and what a traitor act he did. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We didn't know at the time that he said that we had committed ethnic cleansing in the Flash. It was also repeated by Mesic together that Djukic said in The Hague. Such a character in the image of the former president certainly does not deserve any privileges in the Republic of Croatia and I am sure that we should have done it all together before, abolished this office and that institution of the former president of the state no matter how much it cost the state budget and your trip to America for 7 days that you have never justified was also costing Croatia. It also cost insurance for both Lalovac and Opačićka and Pusićka and Matić for a time also to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I don't know what you're so opposed to, and at the same time, you've come to think of it when he didn't give you the support that he needed to limit that space and that he should leave it for five years. His actions were too dangerous for the Republic of Croatia and because of him, the generals were in The Hague.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8658	Thank you very much. I'd just like to keep an eye on the words we're talking about other public figures, people, colleagues, politicians, etc. I'm asking that we be at a certain level of what this House looks like. Here's a distinguished representative of Gordan Maras will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8659	Mr. President, I even think Mr. Djakic in this case deserves not only a warning but also a warning about it...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8660	You'll let Mr. Maras run this session. When you win the election and become President of the Parliament, then you will determine what anyone deserves in this Chamber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8661	You have to understand that he called the former president of the state by the countenance. So that's the president of the Republic of Croatia. To call the President of the Republic of Croatia a character, I do not know how to characterize otherwise but something that is responsible for the reminder and even the taking of words. But, well, you're right, you have your own criteria, and I'm sorry you didn't react that way because we have to protect our institutions. And your picture will be found there tomorrow just like the President of the Parliament and probably someone in the future will talk about you but I wouldn't like to say that it was a character, you understand. And that's why I'm asking you to protect our country's institutions. On the other hand Mr. Djakic is here,...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8662	Now I'm going to give you a warning because you don't have anything to polarize with me. I'm just running. I have just been used by my colleague Djakic for his expression that this is not appropriate for this House. [[Intruder Maras: But I have protected you.]] That's very clear. No, no, it's for a warning. You can't determine, I give you a warning because you're pliming with me and there's nothing to pollute with the chairman. Read your Rules of Procedure and then you'll know it. It's high time you read the Rules of Procedure. You've been in this House for three months, obviously you haven't read it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8663	Okay. So I answer to Mr Djakic's reply and I think that Mr Djakic is in his replica by mentioning that the former President Mesic's temper should have received a warning and this is not a polemic with the chairman, but my valuable position that I have the right to say here and to take away his word because it is not in this way to offend the institutions of the Republic of Croatia. That's my position as a parliamentary representative, not a polemic with the President of the Parliament. The second thing, the ministers you mentioned earlier that they had an escort and that they were all protected persons and they were protected because of threats, they haven't had her since the beginning of Mr. Lalovec for tax fraud, you see how the charges are now being filed and how many frauds there have been because of these threats. Mr. Fred Matic, you know why Mrs. Milanka Opačić is also aware of the specific introduction of order within the framework of social rights. So they all had exact threats and the police made an assessment that they needed to be kept safe. It was neither a whim nor at the beginning of the amendment to the regulation to get insurance for Karamarko and Mr Petrov thus spent hundreds of thousands of kuna per person per month. So you have to make a difference. I'm sorry I overstepped. But a little time was taken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8664	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zdravka Ronak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8665	Thank you very much. I sign everything Mr. Maras said, but I have one replica because I disagree with the way you suggested a solution to the financing of President Mesic's office. In fact, there is a much simpler, more quality solution that can be solved very quickly, i.e. in a short time. In fact, there's a man who's been rocking the state and state-owned companies for 25 million kunas with his companies. The money's not gone. He's got the money. All it takes is for Mr. Karamarko to call Franjo Lucic to pay you back. Because we took care of Mr. Mesic and his office for the next 40 years. If this is little, there is a solution for 400 years to solve his office in a way that you can better say those flocks of Pavelic in the Croatian Forests, which keeps their debt from a total of as many million kunas as it takes for 400 years to finance President Mesic's office. I think it's the simplest solution and there's no need to talk about savings anymore because we can just sort it out past the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8666	Thank you very much. The Honorable Representative Gordan Maras will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8667	Mr. Ronko. This would be possible if you were willing and if you were in HDZ, then there are other rules that apply to you. Then when you roll for both 25 and 35 and 135 million kuna, nothing is likely to happen to you if this government is in power. And that's why we have a situation where tax jumps and special suits are lifted so that some of us can still cheat on taxes. Some who are now accused and have been charged with hundreds of millions of kunas organized birthday celebrations, honored our president, were company financiers, were looking forward to HDZ coming to power so they didn't look forward because they love HDZ no, there probably are some small and deeper and firmer interest so that there are no love and convictions among these people, there is only one interest and there is only one interest when the thumb and the index finger are a little tare in each other. And on that side, don't give the illusion that the one who rolled 25 million kunas will pay that money back. No, he'll probably keep selling his brains here and wait for it all to go slowly into oblivion.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8668	We have a breach of our rules of procedure. Here you go, distinguished representative Gordan Jandroković.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8669	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President. 238 reflects this behavior from the usual behaviour in the Assembly, given that the name and last name of the man that rolled 25 million kuna, probably should have filed a criminal complaint, Mr. Ronko, shortly before when it happened on the other side that one of the people was called or actually at Mr. Bulj's exposure, then you said it was an indictment against President Mesic, that he should file a criminal complaint. You've done a lot worse here now. So, if you have any indication or you know that someone stole 25 million kunas, then you should probably sue him, otherwise this is pure slander. So please, Mr. President, don't allow this sort of thing in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8670	Okay. Anyway, I don't think I'm going to say any kind of a strict measure, but it's one fact. I'm asking everyone in this House if they're making any accusations against someone else that then and they're aware of these accusations, that of course that's why there are law enforcement authorities and they have to report them. Whoever's aware of something and doesn't report is actually a classmate. Therefore, I ask anyone who is aware that someone else has committed some kind of criminal act to report it. This isn't the place to say it. There are, of course, ways to do it. We will now move on to the next debate and that is the esteemed vice president of this House of Robert Dolenjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8671	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. It's a repeat rule that the shorter the law, the longer the debate is, this is about a specific law that you were about yesterday and today I guess at least most of those who were at the debate yesterday afternoon could hear the argument pro and counter to this proposed law given different motives. Some debaters spoke primarily of constitutional moments, some spoke primarily of the aspect of financial savings, so financial savings for the budget, and others said, unfortunately, the most out of that personal aspect, speaking personally about the name of only one former president. And in fact, to a greater extent, the debate from one side of the assembly has come down to a personal debate about the merits of the former president who still uses the privileges of former president of the Republic of Croatia's right. Unfortunately, it is not, of course, a law that is meant to be a law that applies to one person. But the fact is, we only have two former presidents of the Republic. And when we talk about the reduction of their rights, everyone is automatically talking about how it's being brought down just specifically by a certain former president. I'm not going to talk a little bit about that personal aspect or whether someone is experiencing it as a rematch bill that is motivated by personal animosity or anything like that. I will very little reach the financial aspect, but in one part when I speak what the 2013 law says. But I'll concentrate most on that me closest constitutional and legal part. It was also the subject of the most debate on the committee to which I chaired, which did not reach a conclusion just because the board members were divided in their positions and therefore we do not have a formal conclusion and opinion. However, the debate held on the committee was, in my opinion, relevant to this proposed law. So when we talk about the institution of the former president and the Office of the former President of the Republic, we talk about institutions and concepts that have no coverage in the Constitution of the Republic. And it's a fact that's actually the only key and relevant. The former president does not exist under the Constitution, we have never defined him as defined by the interim president. And there is no constitutional institution of the office of the former president of the Republic of Croatia. And in recent discussions that were conducted and in the adoption of the budget when the debate was with the financial aspect of savings in the entry of the Office of the former President of the Republic of Croatia there was a public debate in which some of my colleagues, professors of constitutional law, would not appoint them because they could appear as candidates for judges of the Constitutional Court and it would not be good for me to include their name in this debate in some way. But they all said clearly and unequivocally that the Office of the former President of the Republic of Croatia is not a constitutional institution and that this House can be abolished by law as it was created by law. Therefore, if this House would like to do so, the office of the former president of the Republic of Croatia could by law be abolished. So when the law was passed in 2004, this House called on constitutional basis for the Parliament to pass laws, to nothing else, to any constitutional provision in that section concerning the President of the Republic of Croatia. In this House, it is regrettable that we have not otherwise regulated the status and position of the former president as is the case in some other countries. Unfortunately, we have abolished the County House, and with it the possibility of the former president acting in that capacity, and in fact no former president has ever had that possibility. It was suggested that we could allow the former presidents to be members of the Constitutional Court by modelling the French Constitutional Council where the presidents, after their duties, became members of the Constitutional Council for life. But we don't have such an institution, it's different and defined with us, and unfortunately, even with amendments to the Constitutional Law, we probably wouldn't be able to regulate it that way. And we stayed in an airspace where the former president didn't actually have any constitutional basis and then we tried to settle it with the 2004 law. However, we changed that law in 2013. Exactly the then government that, whose majority of MPs are sitting here right now but in opposition. And I think actually that new law opened Pandora's box today's debate. No one was talking about that new law. She actually did some important things first. First, when the law was passed, in the debate I read these days that as a representative of the Most who had no direct insight into the debate, it was said in the debate that the new law would contribute to budget savings. For what? Partly because the law restricts the right of the former president to use the Office of Presidents and the rights arising from it five years after the end of the term of office. And this was actually the case with the then current president and future former presidents of the Republic, but not with the President of the Republic of the former who had already used the rights under the Law on the Rights of the former President of the Republic. So then the parliamentary majority did a few things. First, she said those rights of the former president could be limited in time. You have, therefore, explicitly admitted by the law that these rights will not be life-long. As important as the former president's institution is today, you've spoken of it countless times. If she's so important, why is she time-limited? And secondly, what savings could have come from that law if the then president had become formerly used those rights until, say, 2020. So the first savings would only show up in 2021, eight years after the law was passed. The constitutionally-legal office of the former president, two categories of former presidents, would certainly not have survived. They wouldn't survive in a constitutional-legal assessment either. No constitutional law has been violated. Because the position and rights of the former president are not a constitutional category. So there is no basis for a constitutional suit because there is no constitutional law. The only thing anyone can run is a proposal to assess the constitutionality of this law that I believe will be passed. I believe that the Constitutional Court, which is not only my personal opinion but also the colleagues with whom I have discussed it, will assess that this law is not constitutionally-legislative. It essentially brings into the same position, in the same constitutional and legal position all former presidents of the Republic of Croatia. And looking at comparatively, this isn't an exception. The vast majority of countries that are new democracies have a similar arrangement. Only one example that is not highlighted, in neighbouring Slovenia, the former president and first president of the Republic of Slovenia Mr. Milan Kucan had a limited right to use the office and other benefits. Today, that right is gone. So we're not any specificity. Even in relation to some other countries such as the Czech Republic, Slovakia, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8672	Thank you very much. Before you could finish your first sentence, we already had a few replicas. Then let's take the turn. The first was Commissioner Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8673	That a colleague and in that first sentence ask the questions of the reasons, is that rematchism or other reasons? And you gave exactly as a constitutional-legal expert your vision of things that you did well and repeated the content of what was said, as you said on the Committee on the Constitution. And that kind of squabble came out there. And as it is generally known to the MPs that we have failed to reach a conclusion that would support this bill. However, to make a short story short, much has already been said. But I'm glad you asked that question again because what you've said with this argument cannot be taken away by what the ruling HDZ wants with this bill. He can't forgive him because Mr. Mesic won the entire HDZ on two occasions. And now the HDZ, with the help of the coalition, wants to defeat Mesic and abolish Mesic through a feather move. And you can't stop Mesic, he'll work whether he's in the office or not, he'll do what I'm saying in principle what our current officials are doing. And they're proud of it. With the same rhetoric that President Mesic is talking about outside. It's just that President Mesic says it at home and the local team won't let him. Because they think our citizens' ears aren't as subtle as those foreign ones, right? You love each other, so it's not personal, but it's something that you have to admit and that we resent the ruling coalition to treat its own people, to its own officials who are no longer responsible for respecting their own state as a superior vizier and as a humble vase towards foreigners. And that's what's not allowed.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8674	Thank you. The Honorable Vice President of Parliament Robert Podolnjak will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8675	Thank you, Mr. President. I insist on pointing out that despite the particular debates of individual MPs, there were these personal motives, but there were them on both sides of the pay phone, that the key reason for the adoption of this law was constitutional-law. After that, financial, and only for some MPs who might raise their hand in person. But for the government that had an additional explanation, which was highlighted yesterday in the first plan was a constitutional-legal argument. And look at a little detail, imagine that in 2021, having an ex-president Mr. Mesic using his office and having an ex-president, Mr. Josipovic, who has to move out of his office and gone, was denied his rights under the Law of 2013 because it would have been his 5 years. Imagine what situation you would have constitutionally-legally had. Try to imagine her. One president still enjoys all the rights and institutions of the office, the other one has to move out and he's nothing anymore. It's a new law from 2013. What kind of message would she give about protecting the reputation of the former president's institution if one had it and the other no longer had it? And actually the president who came from your party. So, I find it absolutely constitutionally-legislative when you talk about guarding the institution of the former president of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8676	Thank you very much. The next replica will be the esteemed representative of Radiir Cacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8677	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There's an excellent book, Andre... if anyone tried to read it. [[You don't understand.]] One of the better, "The oaks that knock down." And one message from that book is very good-looking, "When giants fall and dwarfs look down on them." That's what we're talking about here. Let's not do this! Let's not do that, the state is institutions. The state is an institution, a people who want to be a valuable state must respect the institutions. And when these institutions aren't just a form, and the form is extremely important, but they have really and content then everyone who goes to institutions goes against the state's interest however he hides it has here, no matter what it's not the essence of the formal elements to do something, I really agree that we shouldn't have unequal practice because like here it wasn't the reason, let's not lie, let's not lie. The reason is rematchism, the reason is me, the pain, the despair, the envy, the reason is, is that there's a few minutes ago one representative of whatever most of us here is saying to me, no matter what we all think about ourselves doesn't have that weight because simply our visibility isn't the way we still have the word... So we stick to ourselves, let's give the possibility, even practice, we'll go with the amendment to give the presidents a period of service as a possibility and a time limit of office. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If you don't get it, I said personally and we as a party will... office, they'll get their logistics and they'll still have visibility. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8678	Thank you. The Honorable Vice President of this House Robert Podolnjak will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8679	Thank you. A very short answer to Honorable colleague Cacic, but the replica goes to this last sentence of his, I did not intend to answer. When you mentioned that you had submitted the amendment, the amendment had just come to our benches and in it you did something that would not be acceptable to colleagues from the SDP. You, too, have limited the rights of the former president but not to five years, but to 10 years. So you've only extended the deadline, again it's a limit of time, not life. But on the other hand, they felt it was necessary to non-timely regulate the status of the former president who used that right. Therefore, I believe they will not accept that amendment of yours either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8680	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Davor Penic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8681	I thank the President of the Parliament. Dear, distinguished fellow, obviously party policy is more important than state policy. And all your thesis where you've been calling for constitutional provisions and financial effects, obviously here you're beating on a man and we're defending an institution. That's the difference, the key. 2004. The HDZ government, in agreement with then-Prime Minister Sanader and the president, then-President Stipe Mesic agreed to change the system but would have the right to then-President Mesic's office after the term of office. It was at the end of his first term, to remind you. Any country that cares about its reputation in the world needs to protect its institutions. So is the institution of the president of the state or former president of the state. This decision will change the view of our country outside, no matter what democratic procedure will pass, even though some in this House do not care about this democratic procedure and some do not care about even this constitutional formalities. And to cut short, we on this side of the pay phone defend the institution and the other side beats the individual. That's the fundamental difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8682	Thank you. The vice president of the Parliament will respond, Mr. Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8683	I'm just thinking the opposite. I think at the 2004 Election Law, there was one principled solution that all former presidents of the Republic have equal rights and enjoy certain rights for life, and that right to the office and all the benefits that the office offers. The novel you've brought has led to the creation of different categories of former presidents. How did you protect the former president's institution when you then told your president who came from your party that he would not enjoy the rights of the former president for life in the future but that it would be his right only for 5 years? How did you protect this institution to me is not clear, but you did it, it did not do HDZ. So it could be said that they were protecting the institution because they gave it to life. You've narrowed it down, cut it down to five years, and that's even for the president who came from your party. So you didn't look after the institution like you wanted to because after 5 years you made this institution a nonexistent one. I told you in 2021, former President Josipovic would have no right to use the office. That's the law you passed in 2013. That's a fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8684	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Damir Malacan.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8685	Thank you, Mr. President. In your debate, you mentioned state institutions. Unfortunately, there is one practice in Croatia, a practice that has almost turned almost into a national sport, which is as plastic as possible, as best as possible to pollute the institutions of its own country. If by any chance we MPs came to the Stone Door now, if we were accidentally struck by lightning, believe me, the citizens would stop and clap. Even these South Korean tourists would clap. Such a negative perception of the public and the merit of such a negative perception of the public is both this law and this debate. And you, Mr. Podlonjak and your colleagues at MOST, like to say that it's the taste of your struggle, the fight against the political elite. But you forget that you are the political elite, you are the government, you are the laws, you are the most responsible for the perception of the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8686	The Honorable Vice President of Parliament will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8687	We are responsible all together who are here. And we who are here in the assembly are involved in the work of this High House and we give the public a picture of us being here at the workplace and that's part of the perception that the public has about us. There is also that dimension of our rights, obligations, privileges, benefits, whatever our professional duty is, and of course we're all part of it, I'm not going to say political elites, but part of the circle of officials that we have to take care of. This debate on the rights of the former president is just a small, very small part of the debate on all rights and benefits of all officials in this country. So this is one small part where we are now having a big debate and maybe it's not that big financially, but you'll see very soon when we pass laws on the abolition or merger of individual state bodies by agencies and other bodies that will be bigger and that you will no longer say that this is just one small exception that confirms the rule that reforms will not be. You'll see them very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8688	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8689	Thank you very much. Comrade Podolnjak, it is true that the institutions of the state are doing state or unnecessary institutions harm to the state. You said there were many different opinions and different motives. I don't mind different opinions, but I do mind unnecessary institutions. I'm bothered by the Law on Special Rights of Individuals, I'm bothered by the law on the office of one person, I'm bothered by the law on telling these stories, I'm bothered by the law that the former president talks and Croatia pays. This proposal is not acceptable to me, logically or politically. It's only logical to put it out of force. Unfortunately, one's instincts of survival can hardly detect damage both to the office and to the users and these survival instincts blind the eyes and to the understanding of priorities because at a time when each atom of energy and time we need to invest in agreeing and resolving essential issues and the need of the state and its citizens in focus, so as the priority found this bizarre and octromized topic. Can this be characterized by anything rather than a lack of sense to understand priorities from a barren and inappropriate one's valley. I would therefore suggest that the former president continue to tell his stories to the same-minded and curious but this time and forever beyond the institutional and certainly without fees, without guards, official cars and without offices, and it is only right that whatever the president was concerned with from HDZ and independent or SDP, such an office should not, regardless of whose president it was and whose name was here, but the unnecessary and harmful institution and there are many more of them, should be abolished and not only partially changed, but this partial change and positive step will also be a positive step in support of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8690	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8691	Thank you very much. Well, what we've been hearing since yesterday, and today is actually the HDZ account with Mr. Mesic. And Honorable counterpart Maric said something that I would sign to refer to the late President Tudjman as well. So we would argue differently here if Tudjman were alive and the question is whether HDZ would stand behind this proposal to abolish the former president's office. On the other hand, a respected colleague, Poddolnjak, as a constitutional expert, tried to explain that this law was not against the constitution but only reminding me of the analogy we had about a year and a half ago when the Constitutional Court abolished the provisions of the Law on Pensions of Assembly MPs where the Constitutional Court said very clearly that the rights acquired by way of duty could not be abolished, that the law could not be retroactive. Therefore, despite your eloquence as a constitutional legal expert, it is very difficult to defend something that has already been confirmed on another example, which is, therefore, on the pensions of a parliamentary representative. Whether it is fair or not, we can leave it to the court and the public but the Constitutional Court has also made it very clear what he thinks about retroactive application of law, what he thinks about the rights acquired are abolished after a while. And I am deeply sorry that MOST got involved in HDZ's car because the HDZ decommissioned Mesic in the mid-90s and now the Most deposed Mesic in early 2000. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8692	Thank you. The honourable representative and vice president of Dom Podolnjak will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8693	Yes, dear colleague. We do not have the same opinion obviously on the Constitutional Court's decision and what it was about, and we know that it was then related to parliamentary pensions and the indirect retirement of constitutional judges. This is a completely different context. The right to resign and allegedly acquired the former president's rights to the former president's office. You want to talk about the acquired right to have a driver, a car, two employees, and I don't know what other rights. How can that be acquired right? When you talk about retirement, you'll have a certain right to retire as well as I do. But acquired the right to some material rights, so to the car, the driver or the employees who do certain jobs for you, it can't possibly be earned the right. And then you can't even complain to the Constitutional Court that you've been violated by some constitutional law. What constitutional right? That you have a personal driver. Constitutional right for two officials to work for you, constitutional right to have a free phone, constitutional right to something like that. Well, of course that doesn't seem like a logical constitutional legal basis to us at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8694	And the final debate will be the distinguished representative of Tomislav Sauche. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8695	Thank you very much. Now, I won't be too long. I certainly won't speak all 10 minutes. I'm aware that I'm last and I'm aware there's not much to add anymore, I think it's more or less said. It's not easy to speak last in the debate right now, especially not before lunch break. Right? I'd just like to say that, as far as the reason is concerned, is that the reason for abolishing this law is that it's expenses. No, we've seen that from all the debates. We saw the debates going in the direction of political judgments, convictions. I'd just like to say that here I am today looking at these red armchairs that the government normally sits on. I remember in 2011 when our HDZ colleagues were, and I'm not going to say, laughing, we were presuming that we increased the government so much that they no longer resided in these chairs where the government was sitting until then, but they had to stand some rope chairs because the government was bigger. I think there's been a lot of this under the radar that this government has two more members. So when was the last time the current morning here was barely all the ministers, vice presidents, the Prime Minister stopped. Why am I saying that? Because this government has two new vice presidents, i.e. There are two vice presidents and the subject of their insurance has already been chewed up, and I won't waste any time on that. But one thing, it wasn't mentioned here, which is that the Government Act says that a vice-president who doesn't, means who's not a minister has the right to an office. These two of our new vice presidents don't have their own ministry, they used the right to have their own office. And in some ways Mr. Karamarko has been trying all along to get as close as possible to the role of prime minister as possible, so his office is so much bigger. We saw that he teamed him up with people mostly from a party who were employed as special advisors, so here's his former bodyguard and driver became a special adviser to general affairs whatever that means. So it's obvious from that that when it comes to cutting costs, this government isn't in the first place. As a reason for terminating this office, it's definitely not that reason. The reason is rematchism, the reason is short-term, the reason is wrong. And the abolition of this law will have long-term consequences. And now to come to my main thesis. So let's not treat our former statesmen that way. He didn't have many former presidents, so we don't have that many former prime ministers. People who have acted so highly on me should always find their place within the state, I won't tell the system, but some rights should. I think we as a state of these people could benefit much more than we actually use today. And therefore, President Mesic is a good example of how the state can benefit from its former president. There's been a lot of talk about his travels. I'd draw attention to the other side of that medal. The question needs to be asked how much we as a state benefited from it. I think economic diplomacy is something that is extremely important. I think he'll agree to that on the ruling side of the assembly. The state just costs money. Yesterday, we, i.e. President Erdogan visited us yesterday and the day before yesterday. That visit cost some money, probably a lot. I think we'll all agree that it was important for President Erdogan to come, because it opens up Turkey's market and that's exactly how business is done. So that part of the world includes both Turkey and the Middle East and Central Asia, and personal ties with people who are the principles of the state are extremely important. There regimes don't change, i.e. The government doesn't change that often. When a change occurs at the head of state, the regimes generally remain and there is one long-term institutional memory. I think that is very important to us when we have one person who has access to people in this way, such as President Azerbaijan, who recently received President Mesic, former President Mesic, as you can see from his website. I think you'll all agree that the President of Azerbaijan is not anyone and that it's not some lame state and that President Azerbaijan certainly wouldn't receive anyone for a bilateral visit. This type actually enters the highest officials of one of us economically interesting regions, i.e. A very interesting part of the world has few. And I think big corporations, international and foreign countries pay huge money for the lobbyist services of the company that give them entry. I think it represents these lobbying companies, they certainly exceed these 600 thousand kunas that we're going to save. So, to sum up my argument. I think Mr. Mesic and his actions have been much, much, much more useful than any harm. I think this decision is very harmful and we'll only figure it out later. On the other hand, I don't think Mr. Mesic is going to shut up about this, or I don't know how to get him off the political scene. It simply moves from where it was extremely useful, and it would not even be called international co-operation, nor would I call it economic diplomacy. So from this sphere of economic diplomacy, it's kind of pulling itself back into the day-to-day politics. So I apologize, I promised I wouldn't talk all the way. That's what I'd end up with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8696	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8697	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, just for a little while, I've decided to get back to you since there's been a lot of talk about the great successes of the economic diplomacy of the former president. List one of those successes in this debate, I haven't heard one particular thing that happened. I personally attended an international meeting outside the Republic of Croatia where Mr. former president came with a delegation of four other people from that office, so multiply the cost of this trip, I heard nothing useful or positive that would go into support of the Republic of Croatia. If you have ever listened to his presentations which he had at some of these meetings or what he spoke publicly, I have not seen that he has aligned his policy and his action with the state policy of the Republic of Croatia. So he went around the world and spoke his own opinions. I was in such a place where what President Mesic said was directly contrary to the state policy of the Republic of Croatia. That was when I was an opposition representative. So, not now that he criticised HDZ and the authorities but said things that were contrary to the declared state policy of the Republic of Croatia at the expense of Croatian taxpayers. So we're talking from the political trenches, you for him, we against him. It's okay. But let's stick to facts. Please state what economic success it is and what it has done and what policies it has advocated and what the Republic of Croatia has used. And one more thing, it was often mentioned in the debate today that we should guard our institutions. I agree with that. But just as Mr Mesic took over as president of the Republic of Croatia spit on the institution, remember what he said about the late President Tudjman. So, if someone destroyed the institutions of the Republic of Croatia, it was just the person we're talking about today.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8698	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Sach will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8699	Your colleague Jandrokovic will agree that economic diplomacy or what we call economic diplomacy will often bring some concrete successes much later. And also yesterday's visit to President Erdogan will certainly not result in concrete measures within about half a year. That's right, that's just how things work out in that world. You know it better than I do, you were foreign minister. It's a story that's being built slowly. I'm honestly going to be honest with you right now, so I'm going to say I don't know how to name it specifically. I'm sure there were, maybe some of us didn't even know about it. I didn't know because I didn't do politics at the time. Maybe you didn't know because you were in opposition. I think it is, again, good to have a person who has that kind of approach to call regimes in Central Asia and also in the Far East and that such services should not be so easily solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8700	Thank you very much. Since there's no one else registered, then I'd like to conclude a debate on this bill. We'll vote when the conditions are met, and now we'll take a break. Since we're a little longer then we'll start not at 3:00, but at 3:30. There he is, thank you very much. It's a 13,50 o'clock meeting. The following is the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Special Rights of the President of the Republic of Croatia upon termination of office, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 29. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Association of Representatives of the Independent Democratic Serb Party and the People's Party of Reformists and by the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. I ask the proposing representative to be informed of the amendments submitted. Dear Minister of Management Dubravka Jurlina Alibegovic. First of all, the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8702	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8703	Thank you for becoming an integral part of the law. Next Amendment 1 to the Club of Representatives of the Independent Democratic Serb Party and the People's Party Reformists.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8704	The government does not accept that amendment for reasons because it considers that the equalising of the rights of all former presidents in relation to the continuation of their public action on the burden of the state budget is a legitimate objective in the public interest and the former president has so far used this right over a period of longer than the time to which the same right is limited to other former presidents.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8705	So who is it, and on behalf of the proposer, go ahead. No one will. So, please, who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Now Amendment 2 is the same Club of Representatives of the Independent Democratic Serb Party and the People's Party of Reformists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8706	The government does not accept the above-mentioned amendment for reasons that there is no reasonable reason for the former president who has continued to apply the right to physical protection in accordance with the law, with the possibility of permanent application of the same right to time limits.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8707	Thank you. Please, is there anyone on behalf of the club who, the promoter? There isn't. Yes, Your Honor, Mr. Cacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8708	I'll repeat what I said in the debate one more time. The whole story is a big, colorful hypocritical lie in which it's almost embarrassing for anyone who participates in it. But if those who participate in it don't see it that way, then I can't help them. A state that does not respect its institutions, a people who have not appreciated people who have been presidents of these same citizens for 10 years with the greatest popularity in that period, incomparably with anything today, such people have no help and neither I nor the club that I represent, nor anyone who will vote against your decision can help you in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8709	Thank you. So, please, who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? The amendment didn't get enough votes. And now Amendment 3 of the same motions, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8710	That amendment is not technically related to previous amendments which the Government has not accepted and therefore does not accept this amendment either.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-04-27-0.u8711	Is there anything to say? No, I don't. Please vote for an amendment that the Government does not accept? The amendment didn't get enough votes. Therefore, I would now vote on the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Special Rights of the President of the Republic of Croatia at the end of the term of office. Please vote who's in favour of the bill? I'm asking for a result. 81 for, 4 abstentions, 44 against. I note that most votes have been passed by the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Special Rights of the President of the Republic of Croatia following the termination of their duties together with the amendments. Good morning, I want all of us, even though there are few of us. I see we're looking for an obvious break, and that's Reverend Prgomett, please.
