ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-27-0.u66	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we would now continue the debate on the Amendment Laws and the Implementing Law Supplements, first reading, P.Z. No. Six. Here you are, dear representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-27-0.u67	Dear President, in front of the MOST Club, I would like to request a break on the indexation of undeveloped areas, i.e. local self-government, indexation of undeveloped administrations, local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-27-0.u68	Okay. I don't see anyone else picking up, then taking a break for 10 minutes. Thank you very much. I'll see you here at 9.45. [[It's 9:00.35.]] [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] Dear colleagues and colleagues the break time has expired, so please on behalf of the MOST Club the word will be taken by the distinguished representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-27-0.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Fellow MPs and fellow representatives, it is high time to learn about the effects of indexing the developments made by amending the 2014 Law so that today we have 35 cities and municipalities within the mountainous area were brought to the brink of existence thanks to these same changes. It is about cities and municipalities that are classified in the 3rd, 4th and 5th stages of the development of mountain-mounted areas. The latest amendments to the Regional Development Act have given cities and municipalities an appropriate period of 3 years. Aid from the State budget has been defined during that period. In 2015, 45 towns and municipalities from the hill-mounted area received aid from the state budget of 122.8 million kuna. If we look at only the disputed 35 cities and municipalities located in the hill-mounted area, as I said in the 3, 4 and 5 groups, the aid was 102 million kuna for them. The total aid from the state budget to all cities and municipalities in 2015 amounted to 631 million. What happened this year? So, when the budget was passed, Minister of Finance and today Mr. Maric said that it would go towards a change in indexation to correct these injustices made by the former SDP Government in 2014 by an unfair and unfair indexation. Unfortunately, there is still no indexation to be made by Minister Tolusic and is expected to be indexed. It has been granted an appropriate period of 2014 for these regions which have been unfairly expelled. These are areas that are underdeveloped, and they have been declared legally developed. It is an area of Gorsko kotar which is extinct, it is the area of Ličko-Senj County, it is the area of Dalmatia Zagorje, it is the area of Zagorje and certain parts of Slavonia. So these ends that you can see by all parameters that it's moving out, that the number of jobs, so there's even an example of one of the indices. The criteria for the development index were the degree of education. And because of the degree of education, some units have dropped out, not that there's been reverse emigration, the number of unemployed, migration and the like. So, state aid has increased as much as 5 million kuna this year, but they still haven't gotten these 35 units that have fallen out. So for 5 million kunas more than in 2015. The other day we had a meeting of Mayor Vrgorec, Mayor of Gorski Kotar and Representative of the Mayor of Lepoglava, so all these mayors agreed with the minister to try to solve the bar in this year temporarily rebalancing this situation in these undeveloped areas that are extinct. These local self-governments in the Gorski Kotar do not have enough funds for winter service. So examples include cities such as Sinj, Vrgorac, Delnice, Lepoglava, Buzet, Chabar and 35 highly developed regions. The purely political criteria made in 2014 simply brought these municipalities to the bottom. So we expect, on behalf of these 35 cities, mayors and mayors and a recent meeting with the Minister of Finance, to find a budget rebalance of 102 million kuna or a similar amount of at least a considerable amount and to distribute these funds to these parts. Otherwise, if we continue to care, and we all call for demography, tax policies, in various ways, if this way continues to be managed by these regions and centralisation only in Zagreb, all to be centralized in Zagreb, unfortunately these ends will be extinct and that part will not only be empty but the national security of the Republic of Croatia will also be threatened because there will be more than three quarters of empty, the only good life will be where free textbooks and the possibility of some life will be Zagreb. This is why I call on the Minister of Finance, the new Minister of Regional Development, to make the index of development as urgently as possible, to see who he is and that the mayors, the mayors of these underdeveloped areas, can plan their budgets in 2017. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-27-0.u71	Thank you very much.
