ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1825	Your Honor, Mr. President, I must warn you of a precedent that takes place during the debate on this agenda item. In fact, this point does not have business conditions for discussion, it was not discussed by the home body. Since it's the 2014 report, I'm not going to insist on taking it off the agenda, but on doing it because it's an old thing. But the conclusion on this item of the agenda did not form a working body, a parent committee, a Committee on Labour, a pension system and a social partnership. Just so you know, it's a fact of fact. And I'm saying I won't insist on having this point removed from the agenda, so we can discuss it, but let's just know we're doing the precedent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1826	Thank you very much. Here's the esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1827	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. For the sake of the Croatian public, the secretary of the board refused to call a meeting of the Committee for 10 days. It was only on the written order of the Deputy Secretary that the Committee's meeting was convened. The second thing, this is the agenda item that should have been done in the last term. Why didn't you do it? That's your problem, Mr. Hrelja, when you were chairman of the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1828	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1829	Mr. President, my colleague Shucker never spoke of what I made as an observation. I'm not interested in who's responsible that didn't happen, but that maybe the president of the board could have been solved. So the vice president also convened a committee, but not with this point, purely for the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1830	Thank you very much. As far as I understand it, therefore, the esteemed representative of the Hrelja does not object to this debate. Therefore, I propose that, as I said at the beginning, regardless of these problems which existed unfortunately on the occasion of the resolution by the relevant committee of the Assembly of this point, I propose that we continue with this in accordance with the proposal of the esteemed representative of Hrelje, and then we would now discuss - Report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2014 The report is submitted by the Croatian Pension Insurance Office on the basis of Article 153. Pension Insurance Act. You've received the material into the boxes. Does the applicant want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Here you are, the Honorable Director of the Croatian Pension Insurance Office Mr. Srecko Vuković.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1831	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ladies and gentlemen representatives before you is the report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2014. It was done according to the usual methodology according to which we are dealing with the status of the pension insurance system in the first part, generation solidarity at the end of 2014, and then it is listed below on the work of the professional service. So, human potential, information business, financial operations, work of the Governing Council, work on the exercise of rights, of course, with a relatively rich table contribution at the end of the report as always. What is characteristic of the business of the Institute in 2014 may be three important things. This is the implementation of the new Pension Insurance Act, further expansion and development of electronic business of the Institute and further rationalisation of its business. First of all, a few words about the state of the pension insurance system at the end of 2014. A million 223,000 pensioners and a million 397 thousand insurance companies give us a 1:1,14 ratio, so far away from what everyone would love and wish together and which should be to give us relative pensions worthy of life. Maybe it's like a trend which is a trend of improvement well to say that at the end of 2015 which is where this ratio ended something better, 1:1,16 a month ago. Out of the total number of millions and 223 thousand pensioners 65% is old-age pensions, the disability pension is used by 302,000 or 25% and there is a family pension left. After the 2010 and 2011 pensions were not harmonised in 2012 and 2013, there was a harmonisation of 2,02 and 2,26 at year level, but here in 2014 given the legal parameters that define how pensions were re-coordination of pensions or the current value of pensions. The share of pension expenditure in GDP rose from 11.09 to 11.19 in 2014 but more thanks to GDP developments than pension costs themselves. The peace in 2014, so the new pensioners in 2014 were 5% more than in 2013 or 51 500, which is a 5% increase. In 2015, the year that's behind us so it's not bad, maybe and that look back, it was 5% less. So in 2015, there are fewer new pensioners. There are fewer disability pensions every year. So, the entry of disability pensions is smaller. Until 5, 6, 10 years ago he was 13,000 every year, last year we had about 3,500 new users of disability pensions. Otherwise, our average pensioner has 30 years of training, 33 years of retirement age, 26 years of age who went into early retirement and 23 years of age who have earned the right to a disability pension. An old pension is used for 20.5 years on average, a disabled something less, so 19. As for the average age of users, the average age for women is 70 years and 2 months while men are 72 years and 5 months old, so that is the average age of those who are retired. The average pension in 2014 was 2238 kuna and its share in net salary in Croatia was 39.17%, the lowest was still there in 2000. 37%. In principle, however, in recent years it has been constantly moving around 39.40%. When beneficiaries of a proportionate pension are excluded, so those who made pensions in Croatia and retired from abroad are then up to 43%. It is also similar with an old age pension which is 2400 kuna without these users or 43% of the average salary without the pensioners and abroad, it is higher and comes to 47.48%. Otherwise, when pensions within the EU are compared in publications, then it is mostly seen as a pension with a full-time job. So it could take 40 years of retirement. That kind of pension actually isn't bad for us, so it's about 3400 kuna, so 60% share in the average net salary. Without users from abroad, it goes to 72% which is actually not bad, we are at the top of the European average. What's bad for our system is that such full-time pensioners are only 13.5% in Croatia. And that's one of the perhaps important things that tells us about the pension system of generation solidarity that we have today. And that's where things actually move for the better. Two, three years ago, we had 12.5%, now 13.5%. It's not much, but it still shows that the retirement period is growing year after year. In addition to pension insurance on the basis of intergenerational solidarity, the Institute normally implements child allowance procedures, so let me say that there were 191 thousand users on average in 2014, for 360 thousand children, 379 kuna was the average allowance for children, and at the child allowance spent a billion and 639 kuna in 2014. The financial operations of the Institute are balanced by revenue and expenditure in 2014 to some 36.8 billion. Of that, 22.3 billion were incomed from contributions, which is 60%, and is much more favourable than earlier years, but more favourable than being withdrawn in June 2014. 3 billion and 69 kuna under the Law on Mandatory Funds of the second pillar. It's those contributions to the insurance company with the benefit of an intern. Otherwise, in the structure of pension expenditure and pension income actually bear 99% of the expenditure, and these expenditures relating to the cost of implementation are administrative expenses incurred by the institution in carrying out pension insurance and falling from year to year. The financial expenditures in 2014 fell by as much as 44% due to a far more favourable contract that we had and achieved with the Croatian Post Office about the cost of payment through Croatian mail, dropped the costs and expenses for employees and material expenditures of the Institute. And actually, when you look back 4 years ago, really, the Institute has significantly rationalized its business, total cumulative savings of the entire system and the cost of the institution, the expenditure on employees, material expenditures and financial expenditures of the system are less. In total, more than 500 million, half a billion kuna were saved cumulatively, and in fact these costs are lower at year level compared to, say, 33% or almost a third. The professional service received 474 thousand new applications for both pension and child allowance. Of these, 452 000 were in the first degree, and 21 thousand complaints were therefore a second-degree procedure together with the outstanding one from 2013. There were 524 thousand of which 90% of the demands were resolved. We've done all this work with 94 less employees. In the last year, we've still reduced employees by a hundred. In these four years since I was director, we have reduced the number of employees from 3140 to 2681 as much as it was on 31.12. which is over 15% and I believe we have successfully done all this work with a significantly smaller number of requests, with significantly less costs to be achieved by the Institute. What were we actually doing from the projects in 2014? As I said the most important project was actually the new Pension Insurance Act, these were also amendments to the law as of September 2014, a series of technical solutions, IT, operational, implementation should be done in order to implement the new Pension Insurance Act and any changes it has made. We also carried out the Retirement Act under special regulations of more than 5 thousand kuna by 10%. Since the technical projects, we've introduced an electronic documentation management system, until then it's been in four of our services, we've included another 15, so in all our field offices and services at this point, the electronic system of document management. We formed for the purposes of other systems an eyewitness of people with disabilities who are therefore regularly delivered by the Institute of Art and Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. Furthermore, in a very large extent, we carry out procedures each year through the application of European regulations, so coordination of the social security system so as to pay for children, one important, important segment that we received in mid-2013 in the EU in the Pension Insurance Office, which is to make a solution for sending our employees who are sending our companies to work abroad. That's where we got up-to-date and we really do have praises from all sides within almost 24 hours we're issuing such solutions. Important newspapers, good newspapers also in our business in 2014 is a new system of electronic applications. This system allowed us to, we had a 10% ratio of electronic applications, 90% of paper people on the counter, now we have a completely reverse system, so 90% of our people are electronically reporting to us, checking out their employees, insurance companies, and only 10% is the paper part on the counters. This is further linked to the exchange of data with the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. Since mid-2014 it has been a unique application, so when the employer reports him to pension insurance and that certificate, this application is also valid for health insurance, so by exchange of information we forward this information to the Croatian Health Insurance Office. The same is true when retirement is made for pensioners. Of other projects, it is important to highlight and exchange data with the Ministry of Science and Education, with the E-mats, so we have downloaded data from students of secondary and primary schools, thus simplifying the process of exercising the right to a family pension, i.e. an allowance for children. Also exchange data with the Line Coastal Transport Agency around the island's IDs. And an important segment also exchanges data with foreign carriers about the determination of facts, the fact of death where the exchange of data at the monthly level from the base first with Slovenia and then also with the countries in the neighborhood share data and we come much faster to data on the death of users and thus significantly reduced non-payments that are possible in the old way of work that we had with those once-a-year confirmations of life, so by delaying the knowledge that someone died and then creating these unnecessary and additional costs that the Institute had in the past. Of course a unique form, the JPPD form there we have double, on one side we have downloaded all data through REGOS, instead... now through the JPY but should not forget that the institution as a payer for almost a million and a half people monthly delivers a JPY pension form and a child allowance. Among the first institutions we also entered the central salary account as a public institution and our business within the project E-Citizens in which E-Mirkovinski is one of the important and important segments and the most frequently used services. Here in 2014 we expanded our service with two additional services calculator calculates the extra charge for children and insight into the accounting grips through the personal user compartment. So all of this that I've exhibited, I think it can come out that behind us, is actually behind the office a successful business year where, despite or precisely, despite the downsizing of employees and the cost reduction further, we've developed projects and all the key projects we've done within the deadlines that we've been given. I must certainly stress and thank first of all the employees of the institute who have done one lionic, giant part with a very professional engagement, with increased work with less pay and fewer employees achieve better results it is indeed the greatest work of their merit. Thank you very much. If there's any questions, we're here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1832	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. She's the first one to be the esteemed representative of Silvan Hrelje. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1833	Dear Mr. Director, I believe you have a lapus because you said we only have 13.5% of full-time pensioners. That's not true. We have 13.5% with an internship longer than 40 years. Because women and 35, 36, 37 are retired full-time, so it's just for the public that we don't turn out to have so few full-time people in the pension system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1834	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1835	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Vukovic. Perhaps the most important thing you said in your report is what is the cost of retirement and what is the income from the pension contribution. So for years we've been constantly having minus 17 billion kuna. And what's very important to say and this has been going on and on the other day of the report on the work of mandatory pension funds, you mentioned here that nearly 3 billion were practically withdrawn from the second pillar. And this is treated as income this year, however, it should be said that it is the future cost of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute that will not have income. So we've taken to show better public finances something that's going to be a big cost in the future. And when we talk about I and II in general. Then I think they're related things, and that's what needs to be said. And what is crucial, so perhaps even a report on compulsory, compulsory pension funds and the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute report would have to be a point behind each other. For a simple reason, and this is a common system in the future. We don't have to agree whether it should or shouldn't be, but because of the ignorance of something, I think there's a lot of confusion in Croatian citizens, nightmares and people just don't know what it is anymore. But it should be noted that in 2015 and 2014 the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute was taken up in some years over 5 billion kuna and that is the fact and that is the truth. As it is true that at this point unfortunately, the pension system, regardless of who has the right to retire, is this High House has brought this right, has achieved a minus 17 billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1836	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the next one will speak to a respected representative, Nada Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1837	Thank you. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected directors with an associate, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2014 is technically correctly developed but is identical to all previous years and form and content. It's almost the same data, the number of contents there are in the report itself, and it can really be monitored and compared to all movements that are related to the work of the Institute and also to the pension population which is mainly here the main subject of this report. Although, I repeat, these data in small differences, it is important to note them, to follow them, because they refer us to different trends and different trends and these trends are not very favourable. And what very often in the public and the director himself pointed out in his opening statement was that the extremely unfavourable relationship between pensioners and insurance companies, i.e. insurance and pensioners, is 1:14 and this adverse trend has been mainly the whole time since 2009 with exceptions in 2011 mostly negatively moving and falling. Our insurance companies are also getting older by their age which is not surprising since our employment of young people, young generations, is very low and the age limit of retirement is being extended. Insurance companies, based on their insurance, mostly employed by legal persons, 84 61%, remained with physical craftsmen, independent professions and others and farmers. When we talk about farmers' insurance, then we must stress that over the past 20 years, the number and share of farmers in the total number of insurance companies, which is also the consequence of the migration of the village-city, i.e. the ageing population in the country, has been reduced continuously. So as the number of insurance companies decreases from 2008 to '09. constantly with exceptions to seasonal employment, the number of beneficiaries of pensions is increasing. The causes are different. Because of the long-term economic crisis that I hope is behind us during the layoff of workers, workers have found salvation in early retirement. Also these years came the baby boom generation born after World War II, which significantly burdened her retirement pension fund. So more pensions in 2014 than in 2013 are 5.67%. Some movements related to disability pensions are also interesting. The report cites some reasons, which is certainly an increase, i.e. an increase in the age limit for retirement, so our insurance companies are getting older and are therefore more susceptible to illnesses and reduced working ability, but here it also lists as a questionable system of skills to go to a disability pension, which would probably indicate and indicate that it was too liberal. The average number of years of retirement leave around 30 years and 19 years of our pensioners are on average using these pensions. And clearly, as our older population is, our older and our insurance companies are older and our pensioners are. The average age for women is 70 years and 2 months and 72 years and 5 months for men. Our total number of pensioners is between 65 and 79 years old. The share of pension expenditure in GDP has increased to 11.19%. Perhaps in that sea of statistics that may be difficult to follow in this debate, but we all got the report processed, so we can compare those figures ourselves. But in the debates, each of us will choose what he thinks should be particularly highlighted. The average pension made under the Pension Insurance Act for December 2014 is €2238 which is 39.17% compared to the average net salary in the Republic of Croatia. There are still many comparisons of pensions with the basics of a larger or smaller internship, but we can generally say that pensions are extremely low. In addition to pension insurance on the basis of intergenerational solidarity, this Institute has also handled disability, physical damages, care allowances and assistance to its pensioners and has also implemented child allowance procedures. And certainly to conclude, whenever the issue of pensions and pension insurance is found, there is no circumvention of the problem that follows the topic, and these are the overall economic problems, the social picture of society especially of pensioners and the demographic image of society. An unfavourable proportion of pensioners and employees who with their contribution the full pension fund is indeed disturbing. Small pensions, 320 000 pensions, amounting to less than 1500 kuna and total and these pensions and others cannot be expected to be higher for reasons of the above mentioned ratio. The pensioners are the very population at risk of poverty, almost 19% of them. Often, however, it is considered to be a small population, but this high age of our pensioners is often accompanied by health problems, as well as other social economic difficulties and pensions that are on this average, which are certainly not enough to meet all their life needs. What is also mentioned in public often leads to stress and uncertainty for the pensioners themselves, which are possible cuts in pensions, the termination of their payments, which is very irresponsible from all those involved. Whether the 2015 Report will be more favourable is certainly already announced that it will and we, regardless of what environment we come from, are certainly looking forward to it. The number of employees after seasonal employment is mostly the same, does not change anything to more favourable. We are by employment here yesterday there was a EUROSTAT report in third place from the back of all EU countries. We are unemployed and young, which is also very unfavourable for filling this pension fund. We mentioned the baby boom generation. After that baby boom generation demographic image of our homeland is really sad. We fall into the weakest country in Europe with the oldest population. Some areas account for 24% of the share of older people in the total population over 65 years of age. The negative trends of natural growth are constantly present. In 2015, 13316 fewer children were born than in 2014 compared to 2013, and earlier years there were 8761 older and active population and population of fertilised age. And we can add to that demographic picture the situation in which the Republic of Croatia has been facing lately. It is an exodus of its population of the young, working, and reproductively capable population. More than 100,000 young families of high education have left Croatia and we can conclude if this continues to make Croatia extinct. Generations of our parents went into the world, we used to say belly after bread and work shovels, and now young people with whole families leave with a laptop highly educated in Croatia educated people. The Republic of Croatia must urgently take measures for demographic policy, come up with a real immigration policy. Because the many strategies that we have brought to this House in the past will have no one to implement or realize. And it may seem to you that I've gone off topic, but I haven't, because the demographic image of society is what makes us have such devastating results in this report. Because the demographic picture isn't just a matter of the socioeconomic state of our society, it's a matter of national and security. My colleagues and colleagues, we will support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1838	Thank you very much. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Silvan Hrelje. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1839	Dear colleague Murganic, I must react to one claim that you said that for these pensions below 1000 kuna you said 150 000, you said that the reason was the unfavourable relationship between pensioners and workers. That is not true for me because if you are looking at a good pension system, 500 kn can only be given to someone who has a little job experience and who has a reasonable pension. Because the lowest criteria for retirement is 15 years of working time times 60 kuna per year of internship, approximately indicatively, that's your lowest criterion. Which means that someone who is 30 years old has at least 1800 kn pensions, no matter how much his employer contributed during the working life. And secondly, I think it's wrong to expect that the whole sociale will be solved only by the pension system. The peace system is only part of social policy and social security in the country, and it rests, however, and bears the name of pension insurance and rests on the relationship between what has been paid in the pension system over the years and what is coming out of it. So here we really can't say that something that's out of that system is wrong about a small pension. The fact is that 150, excuse 180,000 people receive a proportionate pension that, in addition to, say, 500 kn from Croatia, may have 1000 euros from Germany or maybe 10 euros from BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1840	The distinguished representative Nada Murganic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1841	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague of the Hrelj like this you are right when you are teaching me about the way pensions are calculated in relation to the past internship and the previous average of workers’ salaries, or now pensioners. But when I said there were a lot of pensions that were below 1500, I expected them to have done it exactly this way that you're teaching me. But it doesn't make sense if we had a fuller and better pension fund to grow those pensions. And it's normal that I can't grow as long as it's such an unfavourable relationship between insurance and pensioners, so in that context I said it. Secondly, pensioners are unfortunately a social category and unfortunately and social care care for poor pensioners, so from a fund that is intended for so-called so-called. Uglyly said social services must be given to help the lives of pensioners who are very large and who, with an average pension of 2200, cannot live. So, not that the pension fund is going to help the social community, but unfortunately because of this bad picture of society we can't run from, these are numbers, such bad pictures of the retirement socio-economic situation, so I wanted to point out that it's not good. And we don't have to fool ourselves, that's how it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1842	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the next one will be taken by the distinguished representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1843	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Mr. Puckic. The report before us today speaks not only of the work of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute but also of the picture of the pension system in Croatia since the time when the second pillar, pension insurance and pension reform were still being discussed in Croatia. The negative trend in employee and pensioner relations has been going on since the early 1990s. I note that at that time in Croatia, we had almost 2 million employees and about 500 thousand pensioners, the ratio was about 1:4 somewhere. This ratio is the ratio that any minister in charge of this area, as well as any pension insurance director, would immediately sign. And after that, it started privatizing, and it started pushing people into early retirement because that's how workers' businesses got rid of each other. The trend in the number of pensioners grew somewhere by about 2000. So then we have this boom that led to the pension system being as unstable as it is given the ratio of the number of pensioners and the working-age population. This resulted in another fact, which is that we have an unfavourable relationship with the age of retired people who are retired today. We have a large number of young, relatively young pensioners and this is not only the problem of the pension system that they will enjoy a pension longer in view of their age when they have retired than is the problem of the labour market in the Republic of Croatia because they will be in the future of labour problems, or there will be problems that we will have open jobs but we will not have the workforce to fill these open jobs in combination with a negative demographic picture where there is something that all governments that come to power in the next 10 or 15 years have to count on. On the other hand, the Republic of Croatia has had its largest share of disability pensions compared to the EU for many years. Which also resulted in the affairs that were in the media, and we all know about the Rubal affair and everything that was going on in the pension system. We have had the largest number of disability pensions a year watching the EU average. On the other hand, the government that was in the Banski Dvori until 2011 froze the harmonisation of pension pensions for pensioners, which led to the small purchasing power of pensioners even further downgraded. In the past 4 years, there have been radical changes in the pension system, in the first part of their pensions they have started to comply with the cost of living and pay, and they have been implemented automatically by amendments to the Pension Insurance Act with the new formula more favourable for pensioners. And during the term of office of last government, the increase in pensions was 4.7% and the Swiss formula went into history. I note that, in January of this year, pensions should be brought into line with the cost of living and the increase in wages, so compared to the whole last year, which means that the pensioners should therefore receive a slightly larger pension in February and a backdrop for the part that is in line. Two times during the term of office increased tax deductions for pensioners from 3200 to 3400 kuna and according to the latest changes to 3800 kuna. In the past, there has been a sudden rise in the number of pensioners and gradually what is now seen since early retirement and disability pensions have been stopped at a level that Croatia is expected to have seen and increase the age of retirement. Therefore, the correct finding is that only 12% and 13% of pensioners retired full-time, therefore 65 years of life and 40 years of work experience, and that is something that should be pursued in the future. This Parliament has adopted amendments to the Pension Insurance Act where we have increased the retirement age, we will gradually increase once we have completed this process of increasing the age for women's retirement. For a long time, it was a question of what about those of our workers who started working early at 19 who were over 40 years old and if they retired 65 years ago, then they would be penalized, or their pension would be reduced. The amendments to the Pension Insurance Act enabled us to leave for retirement when they turn 60 and have at least 41 years of training. We realized there was a problem with our fellow citizens who lost their jobs because of the economic situation. We've made it possible by amendments that if they don't get a job through the Employment Service within two years they can go into early retirement but without a pension. A quality system of control and supervision of disability pensions has been established so that, with 10 000 and 500 new disability pensions, we have reduced that figure annually to about 3.5 000, which would correspond to the EU average but also to the average weight of our labour market. A unique body of art now serving various social care, health care, child support and defenders has been established, and everything can be done in one place with a unique methodology of art. For the first time, we can say that one solution can seek those benefits in all other systems, not that each system brings its own solution to disability, and very often there have been different levels of disability in the same person, since there has been no unique methodology of skill. The Croatian Pension Insurance Institute has rationalised its business. Over the course of the period, the number of employees was reduced by 15% and more than 500 million kuna savings were made at the pension insurance office's business with an increase in the number of cases, with new jobs to be done by the Pension Insurance Office. The Peace Department has transformed from where we talked most about pensions, about pension payments, we have transformed ourselves according to what needs to be, and this is the insurance house that needs to be turned to the labour market, or to workers, because the task of the Pension Insurance Office is to take care of all other things that are related to the working active population. Orders have also been introduced in pension payments both in the country and abroad. Through the OIB system, we have disabled non-payments, we have made it impossible for some who have died to receive a long-term pension, on the other hand, and we have rationalized the system of pension payments abroad because pensions have proved to be paid to some of the accounts that then transactions are made to other accounts entirely. Clearly, the Pension Insurance Office must have records of who is the end-user of the system. For the first time in paying Christmases to pensioners, we can call it so colloquially a system that allows for every pensioner who receives a double pension, so one pension from Croatia and another part from countries outside Croatia, the European Union, but also beyond, for the first time, we have had information about this total pension which led to that Christmas payout being just, transparent and clear and that they really get the Christmas card that really has low incomes and not that someone who has a relatively high foreign pension because of receiving that small portion of the 500 kuna proportional pension in Croatia gets more compensation than they should. An e-electronic workbook has been introduced, and now everyone can easily control their working-legal status via the Internet. The changes in the application of workers to pension insurance have been effectively scratched and started to fight work on black, today no one can be hired without previously being registered to the Pension Insurance Office, which is also one of the major methods for fighting black labour. By entering the European Union, we were obliged to enter this system of ageing reports, so Croatia had to show the adequateness of its pensions with population structure and have long-term projections for 40 years. The pension system model has also been developed according to this model, the pension system which rests on three pillars on I, II. and III. They step up to those changes that need to happen, which is that to the pensioners in II. the pension rate should be allowed to pay and pension allowances held by those in pillar I with an increase in the allocation in II. Retirement pillar and with a clear stimulation of savings in III. the pension rate, the pension system as such may be sustainable. And according to these projections, the average pension of someone who goes there somewhere in 2030 or the '40s will be somewhere between 60% and 70%, 70% of the salary. For the sustainability of the pension system, employment is extremely important, so according to these projections, if the employment from 2012 to 2014 increased from 57.2 to 59.2%, we increase by 7 index points by 66.2% by 2020, which is about 200 thousand new jobs. The number, the ratio between the working-age population between the employees and the pensioners, would then grow to 1:40, while at the end of the 4th decade, it would be around 1:1.6. The Retirement Insurance Act led to the consolidation of the pension system, pensions were paid in time and certainly that the Pension Insurance Office is no longer what it was before the new Pension Insurance Act. It's gonna take a lot more improvement. In the first row, it is necessary to create a prerequisite for the second partner to continue to receive a certain percentage of his pension in the event of the death of one partner. It is also necessary to extend the wider range of pensioners who can start a working life using a pension. In order to maintain the social adequateness of pensions and fiscal sustainability of the pension system, it is necessary to continue to apply a variable formula for harmonising pensions depending on the proportion of the rate of change in the average wage, the consumer price index in the previous half-year in the sum of those rates. According to this model, the share of average pensions of workers who spent their working life in Croatia on average would be between 40 and 50%, and I note that the share of pensions of those who have full employment 65 years and 40 years of life at this point is about 70% of the salary. The SDP club will support the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1844	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Silvan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1845	Dear fellow Mrsic, I agree that one of the most difficult affairs in the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute was the Rubal affair. However, the damage to the affair is not as great as the trauma and damage that occurred in 1999 when 80,000 workers with altered work capacity who received pension benefits were translated into disability pensions at the Pension Insurance Institute. Although these disability pensions were less but coordinated. The fees were something bigger but they didn't line up. Instead of looking for a suitable new job, instead of asking for the employment of people with altered work capacity, they were all sent to retirement. So such a blow of 80,000 disability pensions can't survive any of the world's economies easily. So that's what we're paying today and what we're going to pay tomorrow for the inappropriate concern of society for people living in an economy with altered work capacity. Secondly, I thank Mr Mrsić for extending this debate to 2015 even though we will only get the report for 2015 on benches, but in any case I would like to congratulate the Croatian Pension Insurance Office for collecting more than 160,000 data in the exchange with other insurance companies in Europe and the world, so that we have a much cleaner picture if we want to, the new Government if it wants to, the new ministry if it wants to, a much cleaner picture of income, of our citizens' incomes.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1846	Thank you very much. Before I give my word for the answer to the esteemed representative Miranda Mrsić, I'm asking you nicely all, please, let's stick to the subject. The topic is the business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2014, not 2009, 1883, 2005. Let's stick to the subject. Dear Representative Miranda, the honourable representative will stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1847	Here's what we can say as we did in the last term when we proposed some laws, so we talked a lot more about things. I thank the replica, and I think it is very important to stress that by establishing a system of supervision of the approval of invalidity pensions, and in particular by setting up a special independent service within the Ministry of Labour and the pension system, we have disabled what has been going on for years, which is that certain people go into retirement without having the conditions. It is clear that there is a need to continue to work especially in the area of the revision of disability pensions, as it is obvious that we can prevent those who are hunting in the murky and who are trying to obtain non-accountable rights from doing so. A new system of professional rehabilitation has also been established. For many years, it has been an attitude when a person gets a certain disability to be automatically sent to a disability pension. That's not the goal of society or the one who works. So, our goal is that when someone gets a certain degree of disability to rehabilitate him and return to the work process because the pension is much, much bigger than the disability pension and therefore the centres for professional rehabilitation in Croatia that started working are established. And one co-operation between these centres and the Pension Insurance Institute will lead to our professional rehabilitation in Croatia being much better and to allow those who get a certain degree of disability due to the work process and disease, to stay working their full-time life instead of a disability pension. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1848	Thank you very much. Next, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS, Buz will speak to the distinguished representative Milivo Spik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1849	Dear President, honourable rapporteurs, colleagues and fellow MPs. And I took a moment to read again what agenda it was listening to some debates, but here's the president warned it before me. By reading this 2014 report, we wonder why this is even here now and what are the reasons for such a thing since it has been quite enough time to discuss this in the previous session. This is how MPs are put before the final act, because the materials that we cannot influence before us are finished in order to improve the work in the following year for which we will obviously receive the report in a month or two. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: The Statute that says the Institute must report on its work at least once a year to the Croatian Parliament, insurance and pension rights users, and the ministry responsible for the pension system. By interpreting these provisions, it is obvious that the Institute did not act in accordance with the Statute, and they commend that everything there is impeccable in this detail does not stand. But there's a lot to look at, and I want to open up a few interesting questions. So, just the beginning of this report is almost the same, copy paste the last few years, so a little one criticism of the report makers, and they could at least have those sentences structures that could have been made even better, but good. We also have a lot of these copies, reports that are almost identical to all previous reports. Clearly, then, too much material did not give or give answers to what was needed. The establishment of the Institute shall be provided with an explanation and disseminating of the Statute of the Institute and the management of the Institute shall describe the work of the Governing Council until they have participated in the recruitment of authorised witches which we know are no longer part of the HZMO but are an independent body. So it's obvious that this report in some parts simply shouldn't be here. One interesting question to which we have not received an answer is the issue of payment of debt to the HVO, i.e. the people who, according to the invoiced recorded data in HZMO bases, have the right to pay the difference in the amount of pension that took place on the basis of the contract which included 4100 users of the Croatian Defence Council who will pay for the other amounts of pensions on equal terms, or at the same time when funds are provided in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. This report is not mentioned anywhere, so if it's in that table number three on page 48. I don't know, someone's going to have to say why the funds with all the promises were never planned in a way that we could see it and why this debt wasn't planned, paid and finally shown? Tell us if you know the information, in your final address, what the debt is now and why it hasn't been paid. Because this procedure of HZMO is primarily incorrect towards Croatian defenders, and certainly also unprofessional and non-transparent towards the Croatian Parliament as well as throughout Croatia. When we look here on page 39 in relation to parent records, then we see that the average coverage of the application of employees to legal persons for the '70s is the average. By 2002, it was 96.5%, which, of course, contributed to the improvement and increase of the institution's up-to-dateness and the average coverage for the period 2003-2012. 95.5%. So, with all the technology, it turns out that the coverage is even smaller. The 2013 report is the same procedure, with a percentage of 96% since 2012. Is that means HZMO can't do better or needs to work to finally complete the internship so that the solution won't wait for months but could be issued in 24 hours. This kind of parent records at this rate won't do the same thing in 20 years if it continues like this. When we talk about property-legal affairs, then I must warn you that on page 41 to 43 there is a clearly visible neglect of HZMO according to the state budget. Various floscules seek some excuses and reasons that the legal service itself is not able to do its job but hides behind other services, losing disputes that must then be restarted, of course. And so we're going round and round, and that circle is called some words and circle of negligence and incompetence. We can also give criticism about the public of HZMO's work, as discussed in pages 43 and 44, where it is clearly described not and in accordance with the complaints of users who appear with questions from HZMO who do not receive an answer. Therefore, it is clear that HZMO must work on its image in public and with better quality services contribute to improving the functioning and to user satisfaction. Furthermore, as regards the portfolio on page 55, it is clear that HZMO has more than 2 billion kuna in its portfolio with which, as we can see, it does not know how to dispose independently. So the question is, what did HZMO do to transfer the activity it does not deal with to quality management that could make a profit for the budget? As for the disputed claims of HZMO, however, more than 50 million kuna are for which, apart from being formally filed, HZMO did nothing. We have also here and the data according to which HZMO masters with a very large number of properties. So, apartments, business spaces, buildings in various cities that instead of being put into office and used, make money is lost. What has HZMO done in the last 4 years to put these properties into function or simply sell if HZMO is unable to manage it? We have a further capital fund managed by the Croatian Pension Investment Company. With regard to the portfolio of the Institute, the question arises as to why it continues to retain a portfolio that is not traded at all on the stock market. Why does the capital fund exercise the right to a remuneration of 2% as income and that of the average value of the fund's assets minus the financial liabilities? They act as an independent legal person without being market-oriented in any segment? The property, of course, is not theirs, it is the right to compensation no matter how they work or what the results of the work have been. The addition is that, before calculating the compensation, they deduct their financial obligations as can be seen on page 57 of their reports. So, as the office controls their business or doesn't control it at all and the property of the institution is given to the capital fund for management. The observation that HANFA controls the work of the fund is the same observation that we saw when we talked about mandatory pension funds that are also controlled by HANFA, but this does not apply to the control of working conditions and business performance. Of course, because that performance of business should be taken care of by the owner and that's HZMO. As regards the harmonisation of pensions on page 15, the report states that in 2012 pensions are re- and regularly adjusted according to the pay and consumer prices criterion of 50:50, while on page 48, the reports indicate that in accordance with Article 88. The pension insurance law and pension income in 2014 are not harmonised. The same is stated in that summary at the end of page 72. So the question arises whether or not there was a harmonisation of pensions given the text of the report? It is certain by what we see that it does not correspond to the actual state of the reporting period. And in conclusion, only the report is a large amount of unnecessary and useless statistics deprived of all indicators that would indicate good and efficient management of the office. The report, however, is also given with a year of delay, which also undermines the provisions of the Bureau’s statutes, without justifiable reasons for the same. The property of the institution and the way in which it is managed is not clearly demonstrated as well as the way in which it is managed. And is there at all any indication that the Institute would suggest the satisfaction of using their services, the accuracy of the data, the time needed to provide services at the Bureau or that by this information and the way they amount to no concern at all? The fact that it is the only institution does not mean that it does not need to be questioned how citizens are satisfied with their services. And finally, in the context of all of this, there are several stories and interesting questions that you might be able to get from the leaders who are here, we rarely see them. It is known that HZMO bought hundreds of millions or hundreds of millions of kunas for foreign pension recipients. These are the people who made retirement working in Croatia but are not anymore. But had they never conducted a procedure to determine which bank would have sold them those foreign exchanges at the most favourable rate? We have information that it was initiated and procedure but that the administrative council annulled it with some very strange explanation. It would be interesting to hear the answer to what is happening here and how much damage is done in this way. It is also known that there were thousands of bills on which pensions were paid and that these accounts did not exist and the money was never paid back. Therefore, the question arises as to how much and what amount it is concerned and whether any liability procedure within the HZMO has been initiated for the purpose of this failure and the millions of damage. And it's not an isolated case. Why, in the previous term, HZMO insisted that the JMBG instead of the OIB be inserted into the JPPD form because then we came to the part that at one point we had about 120,000 pensioners who had received a pension without HZMO having any OIB at all. And you remember those stories when at one point when there were about 10, 30 or 50 grand left, as it was said, no more pension payments for all those who don't deliver their OIB. In the end, even for some 25 thousand and suspended until it was delivered to bring it down in the end that we had almost 8,000 people whose pension was paid off who knows how long and doesn't even know if any of these people even exist. Is HZMO's leadership known, and there's a story, so I'm just looking for answers, that it could happen manually over the weekend to enter the database and manually adjust people's pension coefficients to get bigger pensions? Because if you go in and change it once, no one controls it anymore. Or you should control it because today we have such computer systems that are very easy to get a series of answers and very interesting questions. What do you think colleagues can do in this single segment, and there are a few of them I've talked about, find, say, one billion to reduce public debt or minus or deficit in the state budget? If we're lucky, we'll have a chance to give you a clear answer very soon. And finally, one prize question. We know that there have been some games in the system of children's allowance and links between HZMO and the Ministry of Labour and the pension system, including the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth. It would be interesting to see what the amount is, and what is really happening here? And finally, many pensioners wonder whether Christmas Day will also be Christmas Eve this year, since colleagues we haven't heard too much in this House have not reported on this subject, I'm glad they're involved in the debate, and I believe that Christmas will be in the future every year and therefore Christmas and not every four years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1850	Thank you very much. I would ask again everyone who speaks on behalf of the club, both in individual and in replicas to stick to the topic that I repeat the business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2014. So I'd ask you nicely to stick to it, and I'm sure those who've replicated it will, too. The first came to the line by the distinguished representative Željko Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1851	.../The speaker subsequently turned on./... a lot is mentioned and the doubt is always around some pensions for HVO. It was mentioned by the gentleman here, so he would just say that it wasn't the Croatian Defence Council and we would sit here today and discuss the pension system. In addressing President Tudjman's nation in 96, there is no mention of the HVO, the Croatian Army, but Croatian forces. It is also in the strategic interest not only of strategic interest, but of the moral obligation of the Croatian state to take care of the pensions of the Croatian Council of Defense because these people remained in their hearths and in very difficult circumstances tried to survive, and here they are depicted as some kind of brother-in-law who led the private war. It's not like that. I would only mention that pensions are paid to partisan fighters I think 40,000 of them and there are no doubts in the Croatian public space and the HVO is mentioned in some negative context. These people just don't say their rights, wounded people, died, but for example. They have no right to what Croatian defenders, e.g. sending your kids to colleges like Mostar. This must be resolved, it is the obligation of the Croatian State and the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1852	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Silvano Hrelja will respond. Forgive her, Millyva Spik. Mr. Hrelja has reported so many times, I'll say it with automation. Here you go, fellow Spika.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1853	Thank you very much, dear colleague. There is also a certain interstate agreement that regulated this issue but unfortunately there are also those who did not respect this interstate agreement. And that's why this question of what's going on and what's the point. There is no reason, of course, not to respect everything that is signed so when it comes to pension and members of the Croatian Defence Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1854	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Silvaan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1855	Dear Mr. Spica, I don't think it's correct for an institution that records 92 years of speaking in the Croatian Parliament that has not delivered the report in accordance with its statutes and in time. The second thing is whether the government discussed it in time, whether the President of the Parliament in the previous meeting considered it a priority to discuss it, you can give it to the former government, address that remark or to the President of the Parliament in a former meeting, but you cannot address it to the Croatian Pension Insurance Office. You should be aware not that the HZMO of different names did not survive only the SDP and HDZ governments, it survived many systems, it will also survive these observations that are not well-intentioned to me but are raising doubts about the work of HZMO and do not make sure that it does not make payments and does not decide on certain things but only respects the positive laws and all money is in the Ministry of Finance. So they're just counting and the current transfers for the Ministry of Finance and that's where the payment goes. I'm asking you to take a look at it and figure out how the system works.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1856	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Milivo Spik will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1857	Don't get so excited with your colleagues, it'll hurt your health. So I didn't accuse my colleagues from HZMO of anything, I just set up a whole series of questions and ask why, and I read the section of the statute that says that every year a report is delivered. About why we don't have it on the benches or why you didn't have it on the benches in the previous session, it's going to be colleagues in the final address, I guess that they've been catching questions I'll simply answer and there's no need for you to be their lawyer here and see people of normal, intelligent who gave a relatively good report and who'll know how to answer all this but believe and the general public is interested. So, slowly, don't get so upset, it hurts your health.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1858	The next replica will be the respected representative of Darko Paric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1859	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Spika, you're bothered that we have a point on the agenda from the last assembly that hasn't been done. I'll just tell you the following, thank God the Parliament didn't succeed because of so much work last term to do so many points so you have them today, you have something to do. Because since the date we were established on December 28, your professional government has sent us to the Parliament a single item of the agenda that they have explicitly pulled back to work or to cook as it is said, because it is not done properly, or it is not cooked as it should be. So I would recommend to you and all of your colleagues that when you discuss this whole agenda, you do it as long as you can. Because if we quickly exhaust all these points that are left of the previous Parliament, I'm afraid while you put all of your assistants and deputies on a forced-to-be-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no. And since Parliament needs and has to work, we're paid to do this then stretch this out and work on what the last government and the last Parliament failed to do because they had too much work to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1860	The Honorable representative of Milivo Spik will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1861	Dear fellow, thank you very much for caring for the work of this call and the new Government, but you have failed to notice that this report from 2014 that you failed to make in the conference, so it is obvious that unfortunately the new council and the new government must return a little bit to the past because of your unhappiness, to do what you missed, and when we clean up this little mess that you left us, then we will probably go on very quickly and with what you are calling for. So, with a little patience, when we clean up what's left behind, behind your hard work, we'll go with what the public expects of us and there's no need for you to get too excited. But we have to, unfortunately we have to do it because we see that this isn't the only report left in 2014. And you were worth it and it is evident from the results of your work in all indicators of the work of the Croatian Government it is clear that it is even good that you are still in 2014 although it would be good to have gone forward. We'll be back for a few days, then we'll be back at a higher speed with 2016. But thanks for the warning and for the quick. We'll take care of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1862	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished MPs Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1863	Thank you, Mr. President. Lucky for me, I'm a teacher and a teacher, so I don't have foreign appearances when it's necessary to establish material a few times. Mr. Špika, in your presentation several times and in your replies to the replica you pointed out that today we are discussing the 2014 report, it is true and not only in this agenda point, but almost the entire agenda of the 2nd session of the Croatian Assembly was composed precisely with points on the work of various institutions for 2014. The meetings of the parent committees made it very clear that the parent committees in the previous Assembly discussed most of these points, however, as you know the fact that the Croatian Parliament was disbanded at the end of September and that the then government, which still had a lot of legislative proposals, which it referred to in the procedure, simply did not have to take part in or process some of these technical points at the plenary sessions of the Assembly, although it was neatly the previous working bodies of the Parliament, all the committees, so they were obliged to discuss new committees, and here they came to the meeting of the Croatian Parliament today, i.e. at the plenary session. There are no breeding games, and even less ground to draw these conclusions as you have drawn. After all, as counterpart Paric said, if there were no of these agenda points consistent with the work of this government that has been established for me unfortunately, this Parliament would have nothing to discuss not because it does not want to work but simply because we depend on the dynamics of the work of the Croatian government which is very slow for now, almost nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1864	The Honorable representative of Milivo Spik will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1865	Thank you very much. Feel free to take a look at what question it was, which does not refer to the 2014 Report. You won't find any. Secondly, the working body is discussing the item on the agenda, given that the parent body has no president should be from your ranks, you should have suggested it when the working body was proposed, so that it could find out in time. And the other thing, unlike this government, is only a few weeks away, so we can't still talk good or bad, and be sure if they're not good, we'll be the first to say it here, you won't. Yeah, you should have if I haven't been wrong for over two and a half years for a clean start, and it seems to me that you're still at the start, and by the time you get to a new clean start, you're gonna have to go through another election game, so if God does or doesn't, we'll see, for some luck, for some accident. You know that. And as for the report on HZMO's work, we said something, something they said, but there's a lot left to say to the answers to the question. And you don't need to say it again and I'll tell you don't get too excited because you had enough time to ask these questions that I opened while you were here, if not in four years, because this report is a late year and a half, then you could at least be the first two, but you didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1866	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1867	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Spika, if you had encouraged your president of the Election Committee, the appointments would have had the chairman of the Labour Committee, the pension system. The questions that you've said have been asked in 2012 by the arrival of the Bane Courts and by those questions that you've now raised, we've given clear answers to how many people have been without the OIB, since we've found years to pay pensions to the people to whom it doesn't belong, that we've also prosecuted, that police investigation is still ongoing for some and that we've been charged by those who did not receive it. On the other hand, as regards the HVO, so here you are now in the coalition, you can agree with your finance minister to secure funds to pay the difference between these pensions to the HVO, which is an obligation under an interstate contract. No one escapes that obligation, but we need to find the means. I note that the 1% increase in pensions that is expected to be this year is at least somewhere around 360 million kuna. Therefore, you are now in a position not to prevent in your coalition from doing what they did in 2010 and 11, which is that they have frozen pensions. The former government froze and paid people their pensions and thus kept the standard above the poverty line. As far as these other questions are concerned, all of them are given a reason to buy foreign exchanges without a contract, without a public tender. The public tender has been consummated, a better bidder has been selected for almost 50% less than they have been paid for years. On the other hand, it made it possible for us to see what bills were paid abroad for years. So all the questions you've asked have already been answered, so please get a little more information.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1868	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Milivo Spik will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1869	Thank you very much, dear colleague Mrsic. Yeah, you say you asked a lot of questions a long time ago and you say you got some answers. If you had the answers in a way that would solve the problem, then I wouldn't be setting them up right now. I, unlike you in this term, will insist that I come to an answer and come to a solution. I don't know how much you could or were persistent, but in any case, it's a good thing it's done, you should always say it's good and you shouldn't run away from it no matter who it is. Because in this Croatian Assembly there will certainly be suggestions that will come from your side and that will need to be accepted. I'll be the first one if he's good, but also to criticize. But we can't rule out that all the good that the Kukuriku government did in the previous term doesn't fit into a single sentence small, little bit. So you don't need to spend too much paper to list that. And to repeat once again in the end, I'm not going to stop at just these questions now that I've asked but we're going to insist on answers and even better. We ourselves will enter that space where we can get an answer in the way that procedures and our system allow it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1870	And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1871	Thank you very much. Mr. Spika, in your debate except for this surprise in 2014 as my colleagues said all the luck we had to discuss because here today is the government session with just 5 points of which two points are also amendments to and additions to the laws prepared by the past government. So there's nothing, there's nothing new and there's no material in this session that the last government left behind wouldn't have anything to do with this Parliament. On the other hand, I'm surprised to you that one institution that counts thousands of people, who is working hard and who is doing a very responsible job, you approach in your debate with a very large copy-pass plate. You said there's a lot of copy-pass tables in the report or I guess there wouldn't be any reports. So tell me, where did the copy-paste get them from? I don't know, have you seen those plates anywhere? Is it from any previous report? Because in 2014 no', 2013 was not 2014. So you have to say, for the seriousness of the debate, where the copy-pass tables are from, like in some cases, some in determining the writing of certain graduate papers, exactly 75% of the graduate work of one of your colleagues is copyright-pasten. That's what you have to say no to. So, then tell me where the copy-pasten came from because otherwise there's no point in saying it and earning the work of one I'd say very high-quality institutions. It is clearly said where the copy-pasten is from, as I say, some of the graduates of your colleagues from the Patriot coalition are very clearly written from where they were copied. As for these payout irregularities, there are no more HZMOs such as those found in 2012 or at the end of 2011. Rubala, there is no affair to pay mom pensions 5 years from 2007, there is no affair to edit HZMO's aula for 5.6 million kuna. So these affairs are really gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1872	Time and theme, please. And in answer let us not talk about things that are not subject, whether in question or in answers. Here you go, fellow Spika.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1873	Thank you very much. If you don't have a good answer, then don't use my exposure to open up a topic that has absolutely nothing to do with this. So it's politically incorrect, especially if it's alluding to a person who isn't here right now. Don't do it because I know how to fight back and you'll be sorry about it, believe me. And I made it clear in my presentation that the first 16 pages is a copy-pass and that it's from 16th to 23rd again copy-pass. So, I said what and I called in the 2013, 2012 and 2011 reports. So, I said what I mean but without any pretentiousness to demean that report. Because dear God, there are certain standards in every report that are almost identical every year when we list the same things. But I also warned that there are several sentences that are unscathed. So they could have fixed it a little bit but they didn't. Nothing in the sense that this would affect the quality of this report itself, about this quality and about what I asked for are those questions asked. All of this is part of something else. And I say colleague try commenting or a replica of consciousness exactly what I've been saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1874	The next one will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, the distinguished representative of the Goddess Makar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1875	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, respected to the director and associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here is the 2014 report on the work of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. I believe that only the report has been made of quality because the data presented and systematiced in the HZMO report shows that it has been made and professionally. So my vision differs completely from Mr. Spike's sighting of this report because I could read out of it everything that mattered to me. It is also to be commended that HZMO’s work was carried out with a smaller number of employees, with lower costs for employees and minor material expenditures. In fact, the number of employees has steadily decreased since 2008 when 3403 were employed while 2853 employees were employed from 31.12.2014. In order for this extensive job to be done in quality and up-to-date with a small number of employees, it must have made it possible to modernise and inform the office’s business. All of us who have met as users of some of HZMO services before and now see important differences and great progress. In 2013 the introduction of a JOPPD form enabled data to be downloaded for the purpose of exercising pension insurance rights. This continued to be the case in 2014. A single application for pension and health insurance in electronic form has been established, so the HZMO and HZZO systems are connected, so the bonds no longer have to submit private applications in two systems but only one in the pension system. The exchange of information on education with the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports has enabled the electronic download of data in the status of students from the e-matica application. This is very important because data on schooling children in primary and secondary schools are a prerequisite for the right to pay for children as well as other rights. New services have also been introduced in the project e-Citizens. By means of the portal of e-Citizens and a special user compartment, everyone can come up with almost all the information they are interested in. How important this communication is and that talks and information should be constantly upgraded that 3 million and 19 thousand visitors visited the office site in 2014 and that there were millions and 50,000 visits more than in 2013. In 2014, 6250 questions were asked by electronic means, which is also an increase compared to 2013 by 1800 questions. In addition to the user pages, the most interesting items were an allowance for children, when they can retire, and the most common issues are the submission of applications and pension insurance rights. Why am I saying this? I speak for reasons because I am extremely pleased with the work of HZMO, especially since 2013. I want to forget the different printers and records that we delivered in several places with the same data, I want to forget about waiting on the counters, I want to forget how much time we wasted as insurance workers, employers or employers just to meet our legal obligation. These were praises for HZMO's work, these are jobs that they can influence and do very successfully. However, they also do business for insurance workers, meaning future pensioners as well as current pensioners. I believe everyone would like us not to witness this relationship with the number of insurance and pensioners. However, since 2008 when there were 1.4 insurance in 2014 on equal pensioners, there were only 1 million and 223 thousand pensioners with only 1 million 397 thousand 400 insurance companies, which is the ratio of 1.14 insurance workers per pensioner. As I came from Varazdin County, I compared the data for the field service in Varazdin with other services and offices and remained pleasantly surprised by the fact that the number of pensioners is 673 compared to the thousand inhabitants, which is the best ratio of all in Croatia. That's far from what we want. I know that the relationship should be far more favourable with us in favour of insurance and that is only possible by increasing investment by opening new jobs, i.e. by increasing the number of insurance companies. It also concerns that the average pension for December 2014 was reduced for taxes and taxes was only 2238 kuna. I'm not talking about those 1,500 kuna pensions where the structure of women is 61.04%, which is about 3 percentage points higher than men. In view of the fact that there are also groups of beneficiaries who make pensions through the application of international contracts, farmers and low-retirement beneficiaries, there is no doubt that there are more women in this group, as a result of women still making less pay than men. There is still talk about the payment of pensions from pension insurance of intergenerational solidarity in which care insurance is managed by HZMO because the combined pension payments from the first and second pillars are very few, and those insurance companies who decided to voluntarily learn in the second pillar, i.e. individual capitalised savings. It is obvious that insurance payments in the insurance of intergenerational solidarity at the expense of the state budget do not correspond nearly to the needs for pension payments. Croatia decided in 1999 on pension reform. We have determined the division of mandatory 20% separation, which is 15% in intergenerational solidarity and 5% in personal savings, with part of insurance companies over 40 years of age being able to choose whether they want only the first pillar or enter the second one. The reform planned a gradual increase in isolation and was a plan or projection that by 2007, the increase in the second pillar should be up to 8% and 10% by 2014. A third pillar of voluntary pension savings was also established in which the state also encouraged the savings, but unfortunately there are very few insurance companies in that column. Perhaps if economic growth had been greater, had it continued, if there hadn't been a crisis, the situation with pensions would have been slightly better and the debate here today would have been different. But we are where we are and it is necessary to analyze, explore, discuss all the facts and open the topic of the future of pensioners and pensioners. What's safe and what we all agree on here is that the average pension lives very, very hard without talking about the one below the average. I believe that it should be possible for all pensioners who are in retirement regardless of whether they are in early or full-time working. We must bear in mind that many who have gone into early retirement have not gone by their own free will but by force. It is necessary to use their experience and to enable these people to work and feel useful, and thus at least to increase their incomes a little. So I'm saying that pensioners who are in early retirement can work under the same conditions as pensioners who are in early retirement can work under the same conditions as pensioners who are in full-age retirement. And in the end, the HNS club will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1876	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. She's the first one to be a respected representative of Darko Paric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1877	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, as you spoke about informing the Pension Insurance Office I definitely felt called, I still have to complete everything you said. Namely, HZMO is one of the institutions of this country that has definitely identified among the first all the advantages of informing and introducing information processes into the day-to-day business. So to say that they were one of the first to start to do data exchange not only within the state but also with other countries and thus not only that many of the processes of business that work within themselves and with citizens accelerated them, but they also cost them and thus saved both the state and the budget and everything. I also think, in fact, I am convinced that those first institutions that introduced the electronic document in this country, it seemed to me in the 7th month 2013 replaced that old work book that looked like the rights of such a book with hard covers. With the first time with an electronic document workbook, you can get a work book on the Internet wherever you want. And when I talk about the e-citizens you also mentioned because I had something to do with e-citizens, I have to say firsthand that I will definitely not say that it would not make sense, but it would have been at a much smaller level of its existence in that initial phase if it hadn't been for the electronic services HZMO at that moment gave and completed into the e-citizens. And I definitely think it's the right thing to do, except for all the people who, of course, worked on these projects to thank both the director and the office and all the wonderful people there who worked and who worked on the information because they really recognized what was important, what was the future and the present, and I think it's for every commendation. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1878	Thank you very much. They will be answered by a distinguished representative of the Goddess Macar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1879	Thank you for mentioning this and for... You think it's very, very important. [[Goovnrik doesn't understand.]] I have to say that everything is systematic, everything that was done in 2014 in this field right here in this report. And that's why I didn't feel necessary, but once again, I note that I am very, very happy with the work and every year more and more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1880	The next is a replica of prominent MPs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1881	You are rightly speaking to colleagues in your statement that the economic situation was better in order to make sure that the pensioners were better. However, even in difficult times when we took responsibility for Croatia, pensions were not reduced, but even in some cases they increased something but also what is most important that pensions were harmonised. However, the situation that is currently in Croatia is really worrying. It concerns even though the government is very short in power new and from the promised economic revolution we can only see in a very short period of time only an ideological counter-revolution. What has the government done so far? It is a government that simply cannot agree, forming a pair of body councils one to negotiate the following arrangements with a promise to cut the administration. We only have two new members of the government. And since the government's decisions of these ingenious decisions, we only have a new Regulation on the determination of protected persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1882	Before I give my word. I've asked nicely many times today and in a few days to stick to the subject. There is a business decision with which I can punish those who do not stick to the subject. I'm asking you nicely, please don't make me use it. This colleague, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic, had nothing to do with the subject. ... No, it had nothing to do with the subject. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Absolutely nothing to do with the subject. So, I'm asking you and everyone else to stick to the subject. There is no need to use the business provisions at my disposal, but we are going to be truly parliamentary and to discuss those topics that are on the agenda. There's plenty of room for political competition in these topics, we don't have to talk about everything and everything that comes to mind. They will be answered by a distinguished representative of the Goddess Macar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1883	I'll say I agree with the facts presented by this colleague Anticevic. But I talked first of all about the business of the office and I was talking about the second pillar, that is, how to make pensions bigger, how to make pensioners better. Therefore, an increase in the isolation of the second pension pillar, which is only possible by increasing or activating the better economic situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1884	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU, the distinguished representative, Marija Ilic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1885	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored Director of the Institute, MPs and MPs. Here is what the colleague said earlier, we have a report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and the state of the pension system based on generation solidarity for 2014. The report shows that there was a continued trend in the ratios between insurance and pensioners in 2014 so that at the end of 2014 we had and already several times this data here amounted to a million 223 738 pensioners and a million 397 thousand 400 insurance companies. I must mention, despite being warned not to drag the parallels to the 2014 report. However, it is impossible not to mention the '90s ratio of pensioners and insurance workers was 1:3 and already '98. In 2014, the report said that the lowest ratio of one to one point fourteen would fall to the lowest. It is also mentioned that we have 2848 pensioners or 77 of them in the Republic of Croatia and 2771 abroad without the OIB who have suspended pension payments and they are not included in the total number of pensioners. The biggest problem and consequences for the pension system of the Republic of Croatia or almost to say the right hawari were created in the 1990s to '99. when it was lost according to the 562,000 insurance records, and we got 362,000 new pensioners. And that's what I'd say to this day, irreparably. Following that, pension reform began in 1999. By the end of 2008, some of the jobs lost were returned to a million 604 848 insurance companies in order to reduce the number of insurance companies by 207 448 by the end of 2008. And in the same period increased the number of pensioners by 75 448. From the beginning of the crisis to 2014, the ratio of insurance and pensioners fell from 1.40 to 1.14. Of course, the unfavourable ratio of insurance and pensioners as if we take the consequences of the war privatisation in Croatian way, demographic ageing of the population and the fact that more and more retirement goes away someone said here that baby boom generation was born in the 1950s, but also this one, regardless of how someone liked or not the long-term crisis, is the biggest problem of the Croatian pension system. And today, from various and different backgrounds, we listen to experts dealing with this problem, and of course to the Institute as soon as possible to increase the retirement age, how the border should be increased for early retirement and even more stringently pensioning. So, as we see a way out of these problems is constantly being sought in reforms and restrictions in the pension system, and the main problem is just outside the pension system. In our above all economic and economic system which, of course, needs to be created by its growth, I would say new jobs, increasing production, creating new values that will then fill pension funds. We constantly withdraw the claim that there are too many pensioners in the Republic of Croatia, that too much is spent on pensions, and often pensions are settled, and they are in social giving. So, by your own height. But I must stress that they are still earned by a long-term contribution payment. A pensioner comes to Denmark for three and a half people. This ratio is also in Croatia, but Denmark has a double number of employees, so it is just then an indication that the more funds are being filled, the more pensions will be available. The average pension in the Republic of Croatia under the Retirement Insurance Act for December 2014 was €2238.85 for an average internship of 30 years whose share in the average net salary was 39.17%. And according to this report, 45% of pensioners or 550,000 have a pension of up to 2000 kn and 71% of pensioners or 868 280 have a pension of up to 3000 kuna. The total share of pension expenditures of the Republic of Croatia we heard this countless times in GDP in 2014 was 11.19%, which is even less than the average of EU member states. Also one of the problems of the pension system several times we've heard this is too many users of disability pensions which is still significantly slowed down, I have to stress it, in the last three years. In the first years of the 2008 and 2009 crisis, there was a real stampede, I would say, going into disability pension, and that's 13,000 pensioners a year. After the discovery of the Rubal affair and the purchase of disability pensions, and I have to say, by forming an Art Centre from 2012 to 2014, the average number of disability pensions decreased four times, so from 13,000 to all, 3200 and some pensioners. We remember that, of course, during the Jadranka Kosor government, pension coordination was frozen in 2010 and 2011, and in 2012 and 2013, pensions were harmonised by 4.3%, so the average pension from 2051 kuna at the end of 2011 increased to 2239 kuna at the end of 2014. In 2014, there was no harmonisation because both gross wages and consumer prices indices were negative. Since 1 January 2014, amendments to the Pension Insurance Act have been made to which we have received two subtypes of early retirement pensions without pensioning under Article 35 for long-term insurance companies with 41 years of training and 60 years of life. 4940 people with an average pension of 3500 kuna were retired, which is 61% in average salary. The purpose of the pension system is economic and social security at age, and the aim of each pension reform is therefore to provide adequate pension benefits to the long-term sustainability of the pension system. The biggest problem is how to achieve that balance between, I'd say, purpose and goal. Peace reform since '99. Of course she didn't meet these two basic goals. Croatian pensions earned by work and contributions paid are not suitable, we all know they are very low. This pension system is long-term in my opinion, so it's almost unsustainable. It is certainly one thing that stabilising the pension system will contribute to everything we all know and we want it to happen as soon as possible, and that is a greater number of employees, and thus more paid contributions as a result of investment and new production of growth in the economy and GDP. But I have to say, it looks like it's still a long way off today. I'm not saying that it wasn't an effort for all governments, that pensioners are kind of expensive, but of course we want it to be reduced to one let's say the appropriate life of the pensioners, so that pensions are reduced and channeled according to some European I'd say standards. These wishes would at least contribute slightly to the objective of the pensioners, and these are of course eligible pensions worthy of the life of third-age citizens. In view of HZMO's efforts and the apparent reduction in the cost of business as well as the information of the system, it is indeed commendable for its praise. The club of representatives of HSU and Stipe Petrine will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1886	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. First, she's the distinguished representative of Ivan Shuker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1887	Thank you very much. So it's undeniable what happened in the '90s, just like it's undeniable that in the last four years, 90 and some thousands of jobs have gone missing. So these are the facts that are simply when you look at macroeconomic indicators all of them that show are like that. However, I am a colleague of Ilic, and I wanted to be more polymised with you about one other thing entirely. So we're talking about how many employees we have, but we forget that the same register pays salaries and pension contributions and pensions for 250,000 employees in state and public services. And when you add over 30,000 more employees to this and what we really need to look at how real it is, I don't want to say that these people don't work, they do, but what is the real relationship between those who work in the real sector and those who take a pension? That's 0.82% in Croatia right now. And that's this devastating information that we all have to focus politically on and stop hitting on what's and how it's been. Because without 100 or 200 thousand employees, we can't change that. Look, from the beginning of the crisis here, 200 and a few thousand jobs have gone missing. But when you look at those who receive salaries from the state budget, do you know what your nominal amount is? It's a rough bill like this that's about five billion kunas to you. Because the total salary paid from the state budget is about 28 and something else billion kuna. So a little less than 5 billion kuna is your pension contribution. So you're paying off from a position up in position down here so we can pay 36 billion here. Then it's no longer a cost of 36 but 40 and another billion. And if you didn't have so many employees in the state and public administration, then this amount would be even more catastrophic. And I think when we talk about this report that's done technically well, but every year it improves, then we have to take out those things that are simply the problem of all governments. Because look, even this previous government has failed to solve this problem, and this one will have terrible problems solving this problem. And at the same time I apologize to her for leaving a little bit. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1888	Thank you very much. The distinguished representative, Marija Ilic, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1889	... Because you've been doing it for years. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] I mean, I'm with such a fund of numbers, I'm sure I'm not familiar with it, but the fact that the Institute would have its autonomy and pay off contributions like in some other countries, I believe that the situation would then be quite different.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1890	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Silvan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1891	Well, dear colleagues, in your debate, you mentioned that we have constant pressures from various institutions that we need to extend the work experience, but also more penalize early pensions. I stand in the defense of early pensioners because this 2014 report also shows that they are bringing into the pension system a maximum of years of insurance training, 36.5 years if I remember well what Mr. Director was saying about this report. Nevertheless, they have an average of 10 years, pardon 10 kuna less per year internships even from disability pensions. That's what I'm saying, that's way too penalized. Secondly, you said one thing, you were talking about a stronger stampede, but more stampede happened in HZMO's history, and every time a sharpening was announced, so more penalization, more punishment for going into early retirement. That's when the one who could have stayed to work retired so his pension wouldn't have been smaller tomorrow. And the third thing you said was that the financial system is an unsustainable system. That is true, but pension rights are not only a financial issue but also a legal issue. These people, therefore, when there were five workers and one pensioner was also singled out in the pension system, health homes were built, hospitals were built, there was a lot of what we were using today. And I think that what pensions pay from the budget is actually a debt to our past work or to the pensioners while they were creating it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1892	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Marija Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1893	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Hrelja, of course I completely agree with you, but I simply in my report because the limited time I couldn't disagree on certain segments. For a debate somewhere special, and by segments, I'm sure it would take me about 30 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1894	Thank you. An individual debate Mr. Silvano Hrelja. Here you are, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1895	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, I will be working on a little individual debate from a different perspective. In fact, I'd like to share with you some facts that are very important. In fact, we have a 92-year-old report in front of us, so old HZMO is in the Republic of Croatia, and it's hard to get out of context in 2014, out of the sequence of all events. What needs to be underlined is that HZMO is a public institution, some say it is owned by the state, I say it is not owned by the state because the state cannot freely dispose of HZMO's assets, regardless of what the DUUDI manages without the ruling of the Administrative Council of HZMO, and in the Governing Council there are representatives of employers, representatives of workers and representatives of the Government. So, what I'm saying is that it's some property that was supposed to be no longer devastationed when it came to various governments in the portfolio of HZMO's assets because that property was also meant to solve certain problems from the pension system. So, what I'm saying is that things aren't that simple, of course one big part is paid out of the budget, not out of contributions, but out of tax revenues to pay for pensions. But I'm saying that it's our debt to generations created by a part of what we enjoy, and I don't think that the generations that are retired today are really responsible for destroying the works of the economy, that they're not guilty of an increase in unemployment and that they can't bear that price. Of course, it is also necessary to view HZMO as one large enterprise of more than 2.5 thousand people who work sometimes and in almost impossible conditions without HZMO having sufficient autonomy and not having sufficient resources without the corresponding qualities of the Government and the competent ministries to increase their working standards. Of course, I received a message from my Pula today asking me if and when the issue of HZMO headquarters in Pula will be resolved, given that in 2014 it was the fire that killed one part in the fire. That rebuilding that building is very difficult because of high conservative demands. It's about a cultural good. That these people work in two locations, that we have a system of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute which is not seen in this report because it's part of the picture of people living and working, that we have certain activities within HZMO that have no fire protection and are done with lots, lots, lots of paper. We have on the other hand and the position that despite the legal obligation of microfilming we must archive both microfilm and paper. So we're all doing a double job together, and I don't think it's HZMO's fault, it's those who make the laws, which are governments in all the councils. Well, I'll congratulate all those who enter the system and try to solve any of these problems. Of course we were saying, of course we were looking for certain conclusions and it should go in, so review the statistics in the Parliament, we set certain conclusions to say how much, to give us reports on the Croatian Parliament as much as is invested in this property, in what state this HZMO pension is. Because these are buildings that are looking for huge maintenance funds, if there's a plan, how it could be solved, if it has any value and how it solves these problems. So, this problem is very important as far as pension payments are concerned, the category of pensioners, heights. But we also can't ignore that there are 2,500 people in HZMO who work in my court in conditions that are of average to the bad, not good. I thank them all for their patience and for doing so many amendments to the law, so much for human beings, even though there are legitimate criticisms that certain solutions are late because it is, however, only people and systems that function perfectly somewhere and slightly worse. Therefore, I would ask that in this report, but also in all future reports, we are thinking about these people’s assets under what conditions they live and work under. Because no matter how much I lay my rights or hope in II. or III. The pension system will, however, continue to be the cornerstone of social security in the Republic of Croatia for a long, long time, although unfortunately because of job cuts, there will be more and more implications for the tax revenues of the budget. But I'm still saying it's a pension right created, it's a debt to generations that are retired and no one has the right to play with that level of right. Of course I want to talk and I like to talk because in our public opinion there is some way that HZMO has been hoarding money for years, and that's one big cash register from which pensions are shared. It's just not like that. It is about the current transfers of contributions to the budget, i.e. the budget and the payment of pensions from the budget and HZMO as a public institution is practically a technical accounting service, so the management of these rights to express myself. And what they were given was given this small property which should have been greater and which could have been greater in control. And every report I take a special look at it I think that HZMO, despite not starting as some great financial experts, has solid business, solid business of HMID and capital of the fund, is just a question of what my proposal would be for some time future question whether part of the fund's capital could be directed to improve the working conditions of HZMO employees but without intervention in legal regulations, without intervention, without government decisions, is simply not possible because we have a system that is unfortunately linked and blocked to block HZMO so that something of its own free will can be done. In particular, when I mentioned Pula earlier, it has a beautiful villa in the best place, the best location in Pula owned by the Croatian Pensions Institute, God forbid the principal to call a tender, everyone would be soaking on his neck what he, with whom he trades. So that's what society is and HZMO's assets are going down. So I urge that we have understanding and support this report on HZMO's work. Of course we suggest whatever we think is good and appreciate the work of these people and their familiarity with the pensioners and all those who will be retired. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1896	Thank you. There's no answer for the replica. I invite the honourable representative, Mr Davor Penic, to the hearing.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1897	Honored Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear fellow councilmen. This is an extremely important topic, and I feel bad that only 8 people have come forward for discussion. I'll base myself on a few topics I'm interested in. The main impact on the movement in the pension system is the situation in the economy, economic growth, the number of employees, the growth of salaries, the movement of gross domestic product. In 2014, we know it was a recession year and there was a problem maintaining that system. I think my colleagues from the Bureau have done their job well, and I think they should be supported in their report. If we add to this the negative democratic movements that also affect the pension system, ageing population, low fertility rates that prevent even basic reproduction, I think they have met the objective of establishing a sustainable social security system for pensioners and insurance companies that are provided only in that insurance as well as insurance companies using both the second pillar and the third pillar. What did they do well? In 2014, a unique body of art was established. We know that over the past years about 13,000 people have gone into disability pensions, that the number has now been reduced to 3500. Afterwards, the number of employees was reduced by 500, thereby reducing the operating costs of the office. The Institute eventually transformed into an insurance company. Through the OIB system, better payment control is both in Croatia and abroad, so it does not happen that someone who has a pension from abroad, let's say 500, 600 euros receives a Christmas card from us. So that's where the control was introduced. In this system, more effective collection of contributions helped most to connect the pension and health systems through the e-Citizen system. Retirement levels have been stopped. All pensions have been adjusted twice a year, half the salary growth rate and half the cost of living, which in terms of real wage growth has increased and pension growth. I think all these indicators are saying we have to support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1898	Replica, the esteemed representative of Milivo Spik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1899	Thank you very much. My colleague Penic, well, it's clear that HZMO gives us, doesn't have the means, doesn't have the funds in their account. They calculate, they work, they prepare all the materials. Of course it has nothing to do with how many workers there will be, so insurance, how many pensioners there will be. They don't do that. And that's not what they're asking in these reports. And this report, since it's from 2014, of course it'll pass, because there's nothing we can fix. If it is the same or similar in 2015, it will not pass for one simple reason here, the question has already been asked, and that is, in their jurisdiction, how many persons there are who, in whose name, and not the existing ones, are paid or are paying their pensions. It is something that is very interested in the Croatian public. How much has been lost on the exchange rate differences due to the non-implementation of the selection process of the most qualitative bank? It's up to them, and this is all you've talked about how many employees there are and how many of them there are, it's not in their jurisdiction, and their work isn't at all dependent. But there are a number of things from managing their assets to these correcting these shortcomings that are exclusively in their jurisdiction and responsibility. And the public expects answers to these questions, and what the ratio of insurance and pensioners will not depend on them at all. That's what we'll see when our government comes out with a new economic programme and we'll see how long we can change that negative trend in one qualitative sense. Because it is clear to all of us that without reaching a ratio of at least two to one of these systems, such a pension system will not be possible to maintain without increasing public debt. It simply won't be possible or until there's some enormous increase in GDP. In this case, we can't expect either.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1900	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Davor Penic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1901	Thank you. Comrade Spik, we are now approaching the spring, and it's obvious that everything will flourish when you come to power. You now have a chance to implement a new system reform. I didn't talk the way you talked about the difference, the exchange rate difference. I was talking about what environment they were working in, what conditions, that they were doing excellent work, and I commend them.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1902	Thank you. I give the final statement to Mr. Sredo Vukovic, Director of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1903	So let's do it in some order. First of all, the data was in 40 years and more internships in Croatia, so it is 13.5%. In fact, it is expected that 40 years of retirement is the internship that is actually a full-time internship, a full-time retirement age, so until retirement, if we take it to work in the 20s and ends some 65s now. And I think it's an appropriate comparison. Such data is provided by foreign carriers, and then we too set out in such a comparison. As far as foreign pensions were really mentioned, we have data, we have collected data from foreign carriers not all but most of them, for 170 thousand people who receive a pension from abroad and we can say that according to the data we have, which is why the vast majority of those countries where the pension is coming from in Croatia, such a pension that comes from abroad in Croatia is the average of 2108 kuna. On the other hand, there were talks about the proportions of pensions, those are small pensions, our users who worked abroad and now live there are mostly part of our internships, and most of them abroad, such a pension that is paid there is an average of 740 kuna for 155,000 pensioners. So low, but these people then have this part of the abroad internship. Let's go to these questions, Mr. Spike. I'm glad I can answer some questions. The report, so the Bureau made it and sent it, here we are. Better ever than never. I hope 2015 is up long before 2014. We've done ours in accordance with the statutes, it's not up to us. As for the copy-pass, so we didn't copy-paste the system pages, we can compare the page by page, the data by data, especially the tables, all the tables are new refreshed. What can really confuse is that the data from year to year is very similar. So which path differs in some shades, in those tenths of a percent or behind the decimal point, and that's why it looks like each other. The situation in the system has been the same for many years as the figures that speak, so the first part that tells the report on the state of the system is unfortunately not changing, especially for the better of these past years. Why is that part in the report from the office? It is precisely because you Parliamentarians asked for this about 10 years ago, perhaps 15 years ago, to be the starting point of our report so that, with the very work and business of the Institute, the pension system of generation solidarity in Croatia could also be discussed. HVO, there is a 2007 debt based on a solution that has been made a debt of 187 million. These are the funds paid out of the budget, so the burdens do not contribute but rather the budget based on a pension contract for members of the HVO. Unfortunately, the budget has failed all these years, given the financial situation, to find a solution to how to find these 187 million in terms of low pensions and to pay them back to the users. It's a debt, I believe, already in this budget, I hope, that in this budget we will at least part of that debt if we don't manage to put and pay all of it. So these are the funds, I stress, the funds paid to the burden of the budget, not the contribution. Parent records, 95%, 96%. Why isn't it 100%? First of all, if anything can be 100%, it's probably never going to be 100%. That it can be better, it can always be better. Most of that data that we don't have is improving, and we don't have it, it's about those war years when companies are shut down, the documentation is gone, and it's going to be very hard to reconstruct, in fact, it's always going to be one percent of the outstanding and incomplete parts of certain objects. I must point out that since 2003, we've been getting all the insurance information on their salaries through REGOS, first through RS, I've talked about it and today through the JOPPD form. Real estate, so there were more real estate discussions. Indeed, many places are both old and unconditional. We don't have enough money in exactly the limited resources we have for our business, we don't have enough. So we're trying to improve what we can from these funds. Non-conditional areas where HZMO employees work in many locations. We also have a certain piece of real estate, apartments. All the assets of HZMO and the Villa "Idola" in Pula, which was spoken of by the esteemed representative of Hrelja, are all property based on the Law on State Property Management, in fact part of state property. And we have tried and in this previous period, I believe that we will do so in the coming period to resolve little by little this property and our property together with the relevant institution that is responsible for this, and that is DUDI without whose consent and joint work we cannot, at least not to a large extent, resolve these issues. What you might still have to say is, you mentioned the portfolio. The portfolio of the Institute has been divided in two ways, the one part of which you have also talked about since 2000 is therefore not the management of the Pension Insurance Office but the first part of the Croatian Privatisation Fund since 2011. AUDIO and from 2013 onwards The Restructure and Sales Center. The nominal value of that portfolio is 2.17 billion, but I am stressing that since 2000, the Institute has not managed that part of the portfolio. The second part, the smaller part of the portfolio, is a significantly smaller part still in '99. the years as a better part of the portfolio allocated to the capital fund managed by HMID and would not agree to be managed badly, it is managed by the provisions of the laws which so prescribe, and I am the influence of the director of the Institute on the specific operational operations of HMID but we can therefore see that throughout all these years the net asset value is now 1 billion and 108 million kuna, so it is increased according to the average annual rate of 9%. In total, since the beginning of work, this property has been increased by 199 so approximately 200Z% and 738 million kuna respectively. 166 million dividends have been paid, including operating costs, which if they are not paid for as the law says for the needs of pensioners and pensioners then go into retained profits and are there. So I really wouldn't say that it's a bad business within HMID and a capital fund over all these years, despite the fact that we know all the expensive crises in the financial market. The coordination, so the harmonisation as we put it in, I looked at it once again, and it may have confused you, so there was no harmonisation in 2010, 2011 based on the Law on non-compliance. This law was no longer applicable in 2012 as from 2012, and the report also implements the basis of the Pension Insurance Act according to the defined parameters, which, if they were met, were to bring the current value of the pension into line in 2012 and in 2013. Since the developments in 2014 were unfortunately unfavourable in 2014, and this has been reported in several places in the report, there has been no harmonisation. So, I don't think there's anything wrong with the report. So, as far as this is concerned, you can always report it to the departments on weekends and these facilities, so if you have any concrete knowledge of me, you can always report it to the authorities, but then entering the premises and working days and weekends is strictly controlled. Retirement calculation has been automated for a long time. As for the entry into the database, every entry is documented and you can always see who is working in which case, who was in charge. So if there's any concrete knowledge I'm asking you to inform either me or the institutions so they'll check to see if it's here, I personally don't believe in such a possibility. As for further improving our business within the framework of child allowances, it is precisely to make it easier for people to collect documentation, i.e. that they do not need to collect documentation when making allowances for children. We've done a job that's not mentioned here because it's not directly related to 2014. But so we've improved the work that you're doing today when you're making an allowance for children in general in over 90% of the cases, 95% of the cases you can only file a request. All other documentation of HZMO is supplied in the exchange of data with other institutions in Croatia. So with the tax administration above all, with the Croatian Employment Service or the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, and I also said with the queen, with the Ministry of Science about the E-Mothers and obtaining school certificates. As for our workers, who I would say are improving this business, who are working on "pulling" our claims, so all those non-combat payments that I'm about to tell you about which one was unfortunately. I think we're really trying here as hard as we can. We all know the speed of our trial. Often especially when it comes to, and that's why it was very important to us when it comes to abroad. Such charges are either very long or very difficult or almost impossible. But indeed, the ministry takes every possible step to make it effective in that area. OIB, payment abroad, all that one area we've made and I think it's really me I'd say commendable. So, we stopped, that's 2013, so that's why I didn't say it in the opening report, we stopped nearly 50,000 pensions. But not because we didn't have an OIB, I don't know where you got that information, we're the first institution in Croatia to enter the OIB system as an external institution and connect to the OIB system and draw that data. That 49, and we exchanged data, so these 49,000 776 people are mostly people from abroad, they didn't have an OIB. It's the biggest part, I guess, because they're from abroad. We stopped and we won. At this point, we still have 1800 people who do not receive a pension from all over 2013 to today have not reported, so to the main living abroad, we have initiated procedures through the relevant authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia most of these people to try to find out if they are dead, alive, they are presumed not to be alive if they do not appear since 2013, when they died. So that's what it's all about. All of those procedures that we found to be non-received payments were initiated, criminal charges were filed against the people who received the unauthorized, so this process of establishing and collecting the OIB allowed us to reach the people. We had a case in the center of Zagreb where the son for the mother died had over 20 and over 20 years' pension through mail, so he signed his mother and thus got a pension. All is launched, these funds have been sued, two-thirds of these funds have already been recovered, one-third is still under way, and I believe that at least the biggest part of it will be charged successfully. I'm stressing it wouldn't be anything if we hadn't just hitched off payments and just started the process of clearing up the whole situation. In addition, as regards payments abroad, I also said this as a major problem after a series, a long series of years when we actually paid a pension through one bank, we started without a contract, it took three decades, we started a public procurement procedure, we got to the suppliers, we cut half the costs, and by the way, and by the way, if the same thing in the debate today was said to clean up through the IBAN system by the end of that address, accounts with foreign banks from Canada to Australia, people who were inconsistencies or perhaps inconsistencies, mostly a good part of unfortunately did not change the accounts, did not change the addresses, but each of them was therefore 150 thousand almost retired, payments abroad, any such case of reputation cleared. So the big job of the whole service, and I really think it's worth the credit, not the criticism. I thank you for all the praises you've given to the Bureau. The public of the work, therefore, is seen on pages, visits to websites that we have opened that website, we have opened an info phone, or as the modern call center is today said precisely in the desire to reduce any waiting for announcements across Croatia by our people, so to open up the possibility for users to get to our phones as soon as possible, but most of it is actually aimed at precisely this electronic business which will then actually cancel out any need of our user, the insurance company to come to our counters, to call us further. Because only, the first updated documentation that also directs, therefore updated documentation, quickly makes the solution possible then and that our user, regardless of the low pensions at least in this part of our work, is satisfied. And here's the esteemed representative of Spika, if I may, I'd be very pleased to have you here from tomorrow or this afternoon if you'd like to come to us at the retirement office that this or any of the other questions that you have to discuss, you see, make an insight into any documentation, answer to perhaps if there are any misunderstandings, indeed the institution is open to you as well as to all others, of course representatives in the Croatian Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1904	Thank you. Replica's esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1905	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Director, in your final address, you have actually touched on two very important topics. One is an estate pension fund, well HZMO, one is managed by DUDI or as they are not already called those institutions and the other is the Capital Fund, which has its own administration, which manages it but also has its own supervisory board which is composed of pensioners etc.. And maybe what I'm about to say is going to be the subject of the HZMO Labour Report next year, but given that there was a Christmas talk, this one, that should be said that the Christmases in 2015 were paid out of those funds if I'm not mistaken. Or from the capital fund's assets. And another thing when we're talking about the OIB. The OIB was introduced for reasons of introducing order into the country. Because I just don't understand why a central register isn't formed to this day. And that is the Nucleus that the entire state administration would be informationally connected and that from all systems of the state, as it was made by pensions and social contributions and everywhere, they would throw out those who are simply not in place. That was the basic purpose of the OIB. And it is also intended on the other hand to show the property status of all Croatian citizens based on all sources of income. But I'm saying obviously some things didn't pass out to someone, so the central register until today isn't made and the OIB is practically used on a partial basis. Because if a central register was made, then you would, practically by importing all data from the MUP, get practical data from the home books on everything you need and also by law when the OIB was introduced is clearly stated by those who did not get the OIB are obliged to report. Another thing, no financial payment in the Republic of Croatia can be for those who do not have a personal identification number.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1906	Here's a thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1907	Maybe I should just say for the sake of accuracy, so the Christmas card is paid out of the funds left over from the pension fund, so the means to repay the pensioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1908	Thank you. Replicated representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1909	Dear Director, you have concluded that surely this report will not improve the relationship of workers and pensioners as it will not increase pensions for pensioners. This can only be done in two ways or by increased employment, GDP growth or by increasing budget coverage. There we agree, but in any case, unlike those who are watching this report with a dose of suspicion, I have controlled all of these phases and have been in the course of all these stages of which you have spoken and regardless of the difficult material situation of the pensioners but respecting the difficult conditions of employment of HZMO employees. You know I've always been your critic, and I've always been your critic, but this time I think that in these difficult conditions with a lower salary, with an increased range of work, I think we should also commend you and this report and, above all, all HZMO employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1910	Thank you. Replica's esteemed representative of Milivo Spik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1911	Mr. Vukovic, don't be afraid of us from BUZ, we're not bogeymen, we just don't know much, so we ask. The one who knows everything has nothing to ask here, and since we don't have any information, they're interesting, it's clear that we're asking. And who are we going to ask if not you? So, I didn't claim anything just I asked. So, again I say and again I ask you it would be interesting to hear how many thousands of these accounts there have been paid on which pensions and if not for those pensioners at all, so how much money has the Republic of Croatia been damaged for. It seems to me that these aren't small amounts because there are thousands of non-existent pensioners, and we don't know what kind of period is on one side. On the other hand, you've opened up an interesting question, actually, my colleague Hrelja seems to be the OIB question. At this point, almost no one without the OIB was there, and only two months ago, the Christmas card was paid off for the reason that the hundreds and how many millions paid for the Christmas card didn't know whose it was, and that was the part that was paid on the basis of the Constitutional Court's ruling to pay the pensioners' compensation. So that's what's left of it now, and there's a Christmas card being distributed from that fund, and here you're saying that you've already come to that stage when you have an OIB for all users. Well, those two data just aren't compatible, so they can't be each other. Because then you knew exactly who this property was and who was going to be entitled to that part that someone should have been paid and based on the OIB to find the person or to find the person who was the heir to that person who died or something else. And for 2015, I expect you to give us, I say one more interesting piece of information, and that is this one, a little transfer around this childcare allowance system that has been transferred from this Ministry of Social Policy and Youth to HZMO. So let's see what's going on and what's the reason for that. So it would be a very interesting hearing answer. [[Intruder Tepesh: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1912	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1913	So maybe I can explain three things with those two or three things, so if I can. So, as far as we're concerned, let's go from extra charge to kids. He has since last year, so the child's allowance is in the jurisdiction of exercising the right of the Pension Decade Institute. What happened last year is that from the budget of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, the continuum entered the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Pensions system within the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. So he is simply no longer in the position of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, but at the position of the Pension Insurance Institute. That's the answer to that question. As for non-performing payments, so at this point it's about five million 400 thousand of what we're looking for. Of which we recovered 3 million and 600,000, there are a million and 800 thousand left at this point unrefundable plus these 1800 for which we are still determining, which are still not worth it. Therefore, pensions have been suspended and where we determine at which point the pension should have been suspended and these are also potential non-income payments. And this last question is about, so we're not an institution that's been paying back the pension funds. And why some people didn't call or get paid, you'll have to ask unfortunately for a pension fund, or a competent institution that paid compensation for a pension fund. We were in charge of Christmas cards, so we have for everyone in Croatia to whom we pay. There are no more people in the pension institution who receive a pension or a Christmas card without having a personal identification number.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1914	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Davor Penic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1915	Thank you. About how well you did speaks and the positive report of the Croatian Audit Office which gives unconditional opinion on your activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1916	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when we get the conditions on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1917	Next is the 2014 report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. The report is submitted by the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2014. A year.". Please vote. The vote is over. 114 votes for, 3 abstentions. I find that most of the votes have been reached in the proposed text.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1918	The next item of the agenda is - Report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2014 The report is submitted by the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency under Article 33. Law on energy regulation. You've received the material into the boxes. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? So, Mr Tomislav Jurekovic, President of the Governing Council. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1919	Good afternoon. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It is indeed an honor and pleasure for me to try, on behalf of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, to briefly give the basic indications of the report you have in front of you. I am sorry and sorry to talk about the framework and the figures from 2014. Under circumstances, they may not in themselves be absolutely current anymore, but I will try to highlight the trends that connect 2014 and 15th, the full results of the 15th year's finances will be known by the end of April. But there are already certain trends, so my suggestion and my desire to try not to burden the Parliament so much with numbers. And you know for yourself that the report is self-conceived in a rather technical way, that it revolves around a series of indicators, that sometimes also hermetically in its nature I will try to highlight the most important things and try to stretch some phenomena that have been observed in the past years and in 2015 and hope that I will be brief. I recall the obligation of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency to submit an annual report to the Parliament, which was submitted on 30.6 last year. It's past the government's procedure, it passed a week ago by the Parliamentary Committee on Economy, and here's the opportunity for you to give your reaction to it as well. Structure to some extent to leave only form by ear and by some rules under which European regulators mainly report like this and draw up reports. I'm saying, we're aware that it's not always the cleanest. Our home European agency, therefore the Agency for the Cooperation of European Energy Regulators ACER has also come into a similar situation with its reports. These reports have increased by 350, 400 pages, and they are also thinking about changing their nature. However, in that case, as we have received some parliamentary suggestions in recent years, we believe that you may have a comment in that direction. ... /The noise in the hall. So, HERA as a Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency is one of the groups of what we often call the original regulators, so those bodies that have both in Croatian and European legislation are some kind of indigenous position, which basically survive through several of their fundamental characteristics. [[Intruder Tepesh: Fellows, Peace!]] One is that they are regulators that are defined as independent, as independent. This is fully transposed by Croatian legislation, and the HERA as such is defined as an independent and independent institution with public powers structured and according to its reporting as a non-profit organisation. It corresponds to the Parliament, it is supervised in this respect by the conditionally competent Ministry of Economy, but the basic definition of the energy regulator is its independence. Even in that sense, what is communicated with the executive is, above all, the implementation of the national energy strategy and similar elements. This does not mean, of course, that one partner relationship is excluded, but in a triangle between decision makers, between users or customers and energy operators the regulator holds one... in the middle and seeks to be some sort of guarantee of stability and equal access to all participants. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what I'm trying to do at the beginning to just briefly remind Hera what she is, and maybe it's often important to say what HERA isn't. Therefore, HERA is a market activity regulator and a monopoly regulator. Let's go from the end. The traditional role of regulators as well as HERA in energy is to control natural monopolies. This means those activities that cannot in themselves be exposed to the market. This includes everything we mean by public services in energy. The other side is a market component. As Croatia's national energy strategy in energy is part of the European strategy, the promotion of the market and the introduction of more and more market elements is a permanent definition. The market as such opens up another large area dealing with regulators, which is the promotion of the single market. We, by entering the EU and with its reform that began in the late 1990s, have clearly relied on the market option, so the market as such is becoming a growing factor, including the regulator. So in the monopolies component, they control the rules of the game, prescribe methodologies and control how public obligations are met. On the other hand, we conduct monitoring, monitoring and promotion in a market game, where the market can function. In some ways, the regulator in Croatia in energy in recent years has three simultaneous goals, all three of which are moving. Not the easiest task, so be merciful to our results. So on the one hand, we have to say the sins of fathers, the problems of 20 or 30 years inherited in the Croatian energy that are slowly being resolved, which can never be broken across their knees, which remain but which, over time, strive to resuscitate and translate into a better state. At the same time, Croatia joined the EU in 2013. A regulator has also entered the EU. This means that 2014 which is the subject of this report is the first full year of functioning in EU conditions, under the conditions of regulation as it is in the EU. For us, this means, on the one hand, the adoption of legislation, where the guidelines of the EU's famous directive in energy should be transposed and implemented by their spirit. Therefore, every move by these directives needs to find places in Croatian legislation while the regulations are being taken over as a direct part. Of these three objectives, if the first one is old, if the second adaptation to the existing European framework which has just been the focus of work for the last two, three years and regulators and all who work in energy, then the third goal is the fact that the European energy framework is changing, that it is one of the most dynamic disciplines that exist in the European economy at all and that in many places it represents one of the main levers of the future of the European economy. So, catching those three targets is suddenly our task in the regulatory component. What it looked like in 2014, except that it was a year of intensive adjustment, except that it was a year of involvement in European institutions, and thus the Croatian national regulator became part of the ACER in Ljubljana, so the European Regulatory Coordination Agency, and CER, so the European Energy Regulators Council. Basically, it was a year on the surface that didn't see a lot of revolutionary events. So, energy companies in Croatia functioned relatively stable. You will recall that there were not many public scandals related to energy companies, especially with regulated energy companies. These years began to be implemented and continued in 2015 to make an extremely strong adjustment to the European framework. For many of them, it meant change and it still means change in the company culture, it penetrates deep into the learned ways of behavior. However, in the end 2014, it was marked with a satisfactory level of security and supply, without explosions in prices and without any more serious disturbances. That was the year, the truth, which in its climate as all technicians know about energy in this most important sense about what we are talking about when we talk about the single European energy market, so the electricity and gas markets have an extremely high climate effect. It was a relatively favourable year, it was a year that even at European level did not have any drastic shifts in price other than the downward trend. So basically positive movements. In Croatia, however, it was the fourth year of a continuous recession, a recession that will reach its bottom in 2015 and will move upwards, and these results are especially seen in natural indicators in energy results. So there's a market contraction, a decrease in the consumer, and at the same time there's a significant change in the circumstances in which it's working. This would in some ways, with the fact that in 2015, the intensity of the adoption of new methodologies and new rules of the game would be fundamental features. I said I wouldn't burden you with numbers, but I'll just go through what the sectoral interest of HERA is. So HERA controls regulated components in three basic energy sectors, in electricity, natural gas and heat sectors. The renewable sources that are often seen as the fourth topic, renewable sources, together with energy efficiency topics, actually coincide with the fact that they are most often manifested through electricity generation in the electricity sector, so I will look at them that way. However, I suggest that I comment through two aspects that are, in some ways, the most public. And these are aspects of whether it has energy and how much energy it costs. Whether there is energy for the regulator means finding out what security of supply has been achieved in the country, what is the state of the infrastructure. So these are the preconditions for a single energy system to be and to be in the event of a disturbance. On the other hand, prices are due to market conditions, established rules, established rules and present players. And in the market in the European sense of the word means also the degree of openness of the market because let's not forget the idea is that public services are reduced to the infrastructure component while the sales functions themselves are being opened to the market. Croatia is still regulated in one section in the sales component, but this is a trend that will surely last for years and will probably take some more time to complete deregulation. Was there any energy or security of supply? Electricity and gas have a satisfactory internally built infrastructure in Croatia. This infrastructure has sometimes cost quite a lot of money and can be re-repeated and relatively high prices to these infrastructure components. However, supply during 2014, neither 2015 nor predictable in 2016 should be questionable. In addition to major international disorders, Croatia can be considered to be infrastructureally well covered on its main backbones, which are the transport system of gas and the transmission system of electricity. Since such security of supply for us today is not the same subject as it was 6 or 7 years ago. After completing cross-border capacities and across border crossings today Croatia is well supplied. Another component of security of supply is whether there are sufficient numbers of players on the market? The fact is that several bidders also appeared on Croatian wholesale electricity and natural gas markets. And in this sense Croatia is stable in the safety and supply component, so the regulatory supervision that Hera then performs has a satisfactory assessment of the situation. The state of infrastructure is also satisfactory. The challenges of infrastructure for our companies dealing with the EU's internal market, so electricity and gas are primarily now at a supranational level. There are therefore certain obligations arising from the EU and its rules of play. Even in the energy component of 2015, the EU has created the concept of energy union. So, the EU for energy affairs has to call it the Energy Union. The Energy Union also brings our HEP and our PLINACRO as our transmission or transport company of electricity and gas into the focus of building infrastructure that crosses several countries. It's going to be a theme in both this year and the next. However, in Croatia we cannot, we can see the situation as satisfactory. What are energy prices, and you will notice that I first began to comment on electricity and gas as what is considered to be in the narrow sense of the energy market, what Europe is building as a single internal energy market. Croatia has open wholesale electricity markets and natural gas. In natural gas, it was widely played with a relatively high level of liquidity, which in particular increased in 2015 compared to 2014. This actually means that the Croatian market, I go in reverse order, this time gas as a more positive example, actually no longer has a dominant player, there are several players who neither of whom at supply level dominates the market and cannot impose their rules. On the other hand, trends in the wholesale energy market in Europe and the world will also have a easier transfer to the Croatian market. At retail level, the situation is in a few reverses. In electricity, there are several service providers at RT level and there has been market dynamics. But that dynamic, of course, brings with it its challenges. You were all witnesses during 2014 and 2015 that the home-level game for customers has a lot of problems, there are a lot of dynamics that have been observed in all the countries that have been past that stage, which can be counted upon after some time and where regulators remain involved in this effort to help to ensure that the excesses of this system are not what dominates. The final interest in opening the market especially at retail level is the benefit of the buyer. Competition that should result in ultimately more favourable offers. This dynamic is present in Croatia. We have on the electricity market in 2015 about 7-8% of households that changed suppliers. The result may not be spectacular, but the figure we think of from our internal analysis that savings is about a year from around 40 million kunas of saved money because someone has changed the electricity supplier is not negligible. So it's about a dynamic that needs to be disciplined but that continues anyway. In the natural envelope as I said most of the dynamics are at the level of the wholesale market, at the level of a small sale or retaila we are about to open households. However, this is a problem which, of course, is primarily the problem of national strategy and energy implementation strategy while the regulator monitors what the state defines as a framework in this regard. I have, more or less, covered two fundamental markets, what is meant by the concept of the single internal market of the European Union. In Croatia, however, as well as about 10 more places in Europe, the regulator also deals with heat. The heat plant therefore involves remote heating systems that received a different legal basis in 2014. So in 2014, the Croatian State passed a new Heat Act that has changed relations to some extent on the market. We, of course, want neither to nor to comment on the moves of the national strategy, but in any case we can say that it was a bold step forward and an attempt to move certain experiences of the classical part of the internal market to the area of warmth. Heat is a very sensitive discipline especially in large centralised systems such as in large cities. The heat systems concerning that elemental premium to be advocated, which is that the price covers the costs are largely met but there are, for example, some exceptions. Exceptions resulting from the socially sensitive character of special heat supply. So one very demanding, very challenging discipline, not so heroic in the energy component usually driven by electricity and gas, but in any case especially from the aspects of customers is extremely important. What is still to be mentioned is the fact that in the focus of regulators and in general the focus of national energy are increasingly present and renewable sources with a tendency to account more and more about energy efficiency and all that it draws with it, dynamics, changes in regulations, dynamics of adaptation, and in this sense, the dynamics of making rules run by the regulatory agency are extremely large. That's what I'm saying are parts that can't be seen but that represent the back of the business of both regulators and national energy. So that would be a general consideration of trends. As regards the level of prices I may have missed, it is somewhere at the level of the European average in wholesale markets, i.e. in wholesale markets, more is the impact of European price trends. On retail markets in the gas sector, we have prices for households that are about 20% below the European average, prices for industries that are slightly above the European average. They are primarily the result of infrastructure components that have been invested in over the past years, which is why the infrastructure part, so the network activities in the natural envelope in Croatia are relatively expensive, especially this transport is relatively expensive. However, as in 2013, with a new set of laws, the regulatory agency was given full powers to adopt tariffs in regulated parts of energy, so the component fell off, so to say the implementation of social policy through energy prices, then we must face the fact that the infrastructure has its own price to pay. Such a degree of security of supply and such coverage have their own price and hence, some times the uncomfortable high components of the final prices. If we want to briefly comment on the general perspectives of the sector after we've given this primary assessment, then it might look like this. I binding 2014, '15 and a little bit in 2016, electricity is likely to continue to adapt to the open market, which will include certain structural procedures as well. The regulator here is limited to observing regulated activities and one pair of excellence activities, in this sense is so-called. certification and this applies to the transmission company in electricity, therefore to the Croatian transmission system operator HOPS and PLINACRO as a gas transporter. These are companies that must comply with the rules of independent operators of the European Union. This procedure, which is very demanding in some countries, has lasted many years but since we as the youngest Member State are obliged to speed up all things as well in the field of CAPS certification and PLINACRO we have much less time than others. It's a business that is deeply intruding in business, the formerly inherited business of these companies, and we assume it will end in 2016. We're in the HOPS before the realization. What's important is to understand that it's about extremely profound changes that affect the culture of the companies themselves. So companies find it hard to reconcile with the fact that parts of integrated companies become independent. It's an example of HEP and HOPS inside it. Both parts are making a lot of effort. And my colleagues who are really to be recognized in these last year and a half as long as these procedures have gone on to make an enormous effort to identify our transporters or transporters at the level of the European Union as is the ultimate legal obligation. So that's one element of the direct perspective. Electricity is awaiting further integration of renewable sources. So, further adaptation of the system to the reception, let's assume an increasing amount of intermittent sources. What awaits them may not be these but very quickly is the change of the paradigm within electricity. So a new concept arises, which is the concept of pronumary, which simultaneously produces electricity and consumes electricity, which, of course, puts the electrical system ahead of completely new challenges, so far it has only had one-way consumption and now it will have to act in a series of places at the same time to accept such partners who, in one part of the surrender and in one part, withdraw from the system. It's a brand-new bug. This will require the introduction of new systems in Croatia, the introduction of smart systems, smart standards, and, over several years, probably smart networks. There is simply a dictatorship of following what the market is looking for in its development. In the natural gas area, it should be noted that gas contrasts for the fifth year in a row. This means that the market is basically less than it was on the parameters for which the infrastructure was built. Natural gas throughout Europe is, to some extent, seeking its place as an energy bridge to a low carbon structure and to some more modern systems. However, in order for that bridge to play its part, it must naturally have its own assumptions of stability, which means that throughout that time it must primarily be kept through regulatory measures in a position to cover its costs and to seek its right place. So, in front of gas, challenges are both throughout Europe and Croatia. The new infrastructure is the subject of state agreements, i.e. the subject of the development of energy corridors at EU level. This will require smart use of European funds if they are successful they will need smart integration and some new positions such as a potential LNG terminal. So gas has its challenges regardless of what it has met Croatia's practical needs at the moment with its expansion. Heat is a problem that should never be underestimated. The new Heat Act separated systems into local, closed and centralized in 2014. Centralized systems are in Croatia seven. Only they have a regulated component and regulated production. However, the transfer from traditional heat to modern heat is an extremely sensitive process in which everyone involved in it must show a dose on one side of sensitivity, on the other hand the practical planning of a system that will lead to satisfactory conditions and large centralised systems. I think I mentioned how much importance and renewables and energy efficiency positions and everything we consider more modern components, so I wouldn't want to put any further burden on you. I'd just like to look back on the perspective of what's called a public service because it's very relevant to the functioning of the regulator. If the regulator is relatively young in Croatia, then it was formed in 2002 and effectively started to function in 2003. In 2007 and 2013, he had two major blocs of legal changes that changed his role. These changes have also followed dynamics on the European market to some extent. European energy is now in what it calls the frameworks of the third package, which means there was also the first one since '96, '98, the second one that was in 2002 and the third one that came in 2009. By joining the European Union, we inherited the environment of the third energy package. It is an extremely demanding project that the EU as an energy continent is likely to be unique at the level of the whole world, and within that, of course, as the youngest of us, work is very likely among the most complicated. What is the objective of public service through the regulator? On the one hand, the aim is to encourage the market, which means to work to reduce its own activity, means to deregulation wherever the market can enter, so that the burden of prescribing rules is moved to control the rules. So it's more and more important to keep monitoring, more and more to do control, more and more promote market protection and market share protection. That triangle I was talking about at the beginning again. So these would be some rough perspectives of the Croatian sectors in the short term and from the training that it has in 2014. As far as HERA itself is concerned, I'll try to finish by going back into my own frames. In 2014, a year like each can have its own or can be viewed through positive results and where there must have been room for shifts and what further effort is going on. On the one hand, a stable regulatory framework has been established. The methodological framework was mostly closed in 2014 and 2015. This means that all our regulated activities today are prescribed if you want to and the accountingly prescribed ways in which regulated tariffs occur, that they have prescribed general operating conditions. So the corpus regulation mostly caught up with what was expected of him. The participants of the Croatian market are mostly aware that another game is being played, that it is a European framework and that the rules have changed seriously. Our contribution to this, I think, was sensitive, because the truth has been launched since 2014 for the time being primarily at the level of consultations within the profession. A new custom, a practice of holding discussions before the documents... So, the topics try primarily within the profession to communicate, discuss, and I think that's something that all participants are well-accepting. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Workshops where certain concepts are trying to work out before they're put on paper become a rule, they used to be an exception. I think it's along with the general public hearing institute as such one of the capital things that we started to transfer. What we will have to do more is to open these public debates through the way of communication, through the form of a communication strategy all these discussions more and towards final customers. Therefore, according to the users of the service. It's something that just hasn't arrived yet. So, the framework is relatively stable, it has its predictable dynamics, rules of play and changes in the culture of energy companies I mention it for the third time in this exhibition, but it's a capital matter. We grew up out of community business, got into something else, and we're on our way to completely market behavior. It requires, it happens in the third working century of a generation. So it's practically a revolution for all companies that participate in energy in Croatia. As for the minus, the minuses indicate where HERA should go primarily to focus as much as possible once a true communication towards users of services. In this regard, we know that we are about to review both our websites and all forms of reporting. We believe that's where HERA has to go. It must continue to continuously improve its own expertise because it is a very specific knowledge that is sincerely spoken on the Croatian market in a limited offer. The level we can offer in HERA is one that is very easy to lose serious experts, thus raising young people and exposing them truly in European energy is something that we have a constant task to do. So we have to keep doing things like we do with even more support. In this sense, I call on the Croatian Parliament as we try to do every time that if there is a wish we do not see it once a year but when it is appropriate for you, either in the thematic discussions or in the visit to HERA. And to conclude only with a comment that the existing model how HERA functions this moment back in the last two years, which is a model that has been built for the last five years, both in terms of funding and status as an independent regulator who let's not forget that under an increase I'm done, thank you. [[Intruder Tepesh: Time, I'm warning only.]] Which is also below the EU's increase. We sent a reasoned EU opinion last week. So in the existing HERA model, the way it works has a good and healthy basis for continuing. So in that sense, I ask you to accept this report as well. Thank you. I'm ready to respond if I can, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1920	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Ivan Sinčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1921	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here you have mentioned to Mr Jurekovic, therefore, the energy strategy in which we are currently living, which is the 2009-2020 Strategy, brought by the Croatian Parliament, signed by the then president of the Luka Bebic Parliament. In this strategy, whoever read it is mentioned the construction of as many or as many megawatts of capacity, as many or as many power plants, but we know that a large number of these facilities are either very late or will never be built like the nuclear power plant, so I would just like to ask you to comment on this gap between the estimated 11 years and what we really live in and how this gap will affect the electricity market in the next five years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1922	Thank you. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. There's no one here. I'm opening a debate. First on behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Tomislav Žagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1923	Thank you, Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of HERA Management Mr. Jurekovic, colleagues and colleagues. In the beginning, I will immediately say that the SDP Club will accept this HERA report. Energy is an extremely important topic and we can say that it concerns all Croatian citizens and not only these generations of citizens but also generations that come after us and many generations behind it. Of course this is an extensive and professional topic. Speaking of this subject, we may be in danger of speaking too partially, of singleing out certain areas, or of speaking too generally, so as to say too much or too little in that people's way. I believe that this report in this regard also affected the right measure by content, and in line with many professional concepts that appear here to be accessible and easier to understand. HERA was founded in 2001, however, as the president of the administration said here last year only in 2014 it receives an extremely large task of Croatia's entry into the EU. So then there are many binding regulations and one broad set of regulations. The most dynamic part of the amendments to the legislative framework moved precisely in part of the energy legislative solutions. In 2013, the Gas Market Act was adopted. Last year, the Parliament passed the Law on Renewable Energy Sources. The Law on Hydrocarbons has been adopted, amendments to the Electricity Market Act and the Energy Efficiency Act have been adopted. A series of procedures have also been amended dominantly in the part of encouraging investment in renewable energy, and a whole series of obstacles have been removed that have been suffocating the same sector for many years. All amendments were made in the direction of harmonisation with EU directives and in the follow-up of the third energy package. Such legal solutions have taken a major step towards continuing the liberalisation of the energy sector's market. HERA as an independent body defined by law plays a role as protectors of customers and energy entities and is a guarantee to the stability investors in the conditions in which they operate. The agency is not financed through the state budget and is primarily responsible for the Croatian Parliament and this responsibility is expressed through this report. Above all, the agency regulates or controls the area of natural monopolies and, more importantly, controls the dynamics of the development of the single energy market in the Republic of Croatia as a single energy market in Europe. We can do three basic tasks in which the agency operates. The first is to fit the rules of the Single Market game from the position of Croatia, Croatian customers and energy. The second relates to the establishment of sustainable energy through the prism of meeting the European and Croatian objectives by 2020 but also to caring for the essential economic sustainability of the system for the longer term. And the third, perhaps most important, is the position of the buyer who becomes an increasingly active participant that the regulator protects. One thing to stress is that the agency has also become a member of the Council of European Regulators and of the Agency for the Cooperation of European Regulators, and I certainly use the opportunity here to congratulate you Mr Jurekovic for being elected Vice President. The four main segments of energy activity in the Republic of Croatia are covered by this report. Electricity and the most often connected segment of renewable energy sources and energy efficiency. Of course, electricity by its scope or accessibility is the most represented form of energy because it covers almost or all of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. There's natural gas, oil and heat. The report provides a large amount of information and data, and since it is mainly about professional concepts it is well-conceived. What we can call a basic energy image can be viewed through elements of price, security of supply or what the market is. We can't talk about Cropex here. CROPEX will be a brand-new wholesale market in Croatia, which is also said these days will probably start with an action organised as a central place of electricity trading on the wholesale market. CROPEX will enable its members to purchase or sell electricity in a transparent, anonymous and maximum safe way, given that CROPEX will take over the risks of trading as a central contracting party between the seller and the buyer of electricity, whereby CROPEX performs as a buyer of electricity to sellers or a seller of electricity to customers. In addition to such anonymity and taking over the risk of trading, CROPEX will, for the first time in Croatia, allow for the existence of a market price for electricity on the wholesale market, which has been one of the essential shortcomings in the development of the electricity market. By observing the electricity balance, we can say that by entering the single European market, the category of imports gets a completely different dimension. In particular, this refers to the concept of security, because today we are talking more and more about national security and even continental security. Each country, of course, is strategically determined which part of the energy will produce itself. Energy systems are important to observe fully and it is not good to view only positive sides, e.g. only the ecological component of renewable sources. It should certainly be looked at on the other hand by observing the cost or how much the individual system costs and how sustainable it is. If we look at energy problems today, we can say as a key moment that it is an extremely dynamic system. On the one hand, the dynamics of changes in the legal framework while on the other hand are changes in technical and technological and ecological parameters. The role of regulators in this regard is also complex and not easy. There is the most important communication with energy entities, especially with customers. The information and active role of customers is of paramount importance in protecting their rights. Data show that the youngest categories of customers are opting for a change in suppliers, mostly this is available on the Internet and that is why citizens have little information. The truth is that HERA has taken considerable steps in this regard, but I think there is still room in education in order to educate more citizens not to pay unnecessarily expensive energy. Like you Mr. Jurekovic here last year when you defended the report on Hera's work in 2013 said that the regulator stands between the entities whose every price is too low and the customers whose price is too high. He would like to conclude that Croatian citizens and the Croatian economy certainly need to have benefits from market liberalisation and harmonisation of legislation. Since industrial production is growing, this will certainly, under the conditions of a stimulating policy, pull investment in the energy sector and increase energy efficiency to the benefit of Croatia's citizens above all and energy self-sufficiency of the Republic of Croatia. I will point out once again that this report has satisfied the amount of information and relevant data and it is acceptable, on the other hand, for expertise. Once again, the SDP club will accept this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1924	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1925	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, colleague Žagar, I just wanted to ask you, you haven't said anything about it, we have a lot of problems in one city when we talk about heating prices and that's the City of Rijeka where SDP's mayor has been in power for a long, long time. So I wanted to ask if you had an impact on this mayor as a SDP to suggest something to him? Because this city is the first row to the sea, they say the first row is always somehow the most expensive, but the warmth or warmth of the city is quite above average in all parts of the Republic and we pay the most expensive heating in the Republic of Croatia, three times more expensive than in the City of Zagreb. And it kept explaining the problem i.e. the agreement of the Agency itself, i.e. Hera. When you ask the mayor he says HERA's guilty, they've approved us such a price list. When you ask HERA, they say we're just the regulator. So let's clear up who's doing what in that segment. Could this famous energo for which the citizens of Rijeka protested several times and last year do something for these citizens not really pay the highest heating prices in the Republic of Croatia. One stand of 60 square feet per year has been collected in several years and up to 3 to 4 thousand kuna. That's what the citizens can't say. In all other cities it's kind of normal, but why in the City of Rijeka are we asking you that? Can you, as a representative, as members of the SDP somehow influence this mayor to do something for his citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1926	The reply to the replica is the distinguished representative Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1927	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Boris, your question makes sense, but I think it's addressed to the wrong address. Clearly, I can point the problem to a colleague or mayor of Rijeka. I've been reading about this problem, and I can't tell you the details right now, which is why Rijeka is one of those cities. Whether this is due to insufficient investment in technical systems that would allow better measurement or cheaper then ultimately heat. But what I certainly know is that the mayor of Rijeka corresponds to the citizens of Rijeka, and I think it's the same for him in order to make that energy cheaper so that he gets the next election. If citizens living in Rijeka, they will say their position on the Mayor of Rijeka in the elections. So in that sense, but in every sense, I don't believe it's the mayor's intensity or desire for the price of energy to be more expensive. Surely, he wants the same to be cheaper, and what exactly the reasons are, unfortunately, I cannot answer you for the exact reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1928	Thank you. Next, I call on behalf of the HSLS Club, BUZ, the esteemed representative of Dari Hrebak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1929	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Jurekovic HERA, as we all know, is with the Ministry of Economy the main state body in the Croatian energy sector. So it controls companies whose total value exceeds several billion euros and in fact we can freely say that it is the most important subject of Croatian energy. That's exactly why when I was preparing myself I read your report in detail which I can say is truly commendable, concise, on 150 pages very precise. However, I also found a few things that I believe we as a club HSLS BUZ but also our citizens might be interested and which are not explicitly explained in that report. In part, during today’s presentation, I would say discreetly to these problems, so I would like you to respond in your final presentation to these specific things that I will now present in the further part of my presentation and specify. As you said yourself, the report is for 2014, so you don't really know what happened in 2015. In 2015, in the renewable energy sector that has been doing a lot of negative things in the incentive system, and we think it will be interesting to hear it, but there is an ongoing report, as you yourself have said since 2015. Just as I was preparing for this presentation, I came across some interesting data, so I would like you to answer this specific question for me. Namely, I came up with data that a maximum of 380 megawatts of new wind power plants are allowed to join the Croatian electricity system for safety reasons, but last year 415 megawatts were allowed, which is now 795 and all of this is in the incentive system, so it provides a guaranteed price and purchase for the next 14 years. My particular question is whether such overload of our electricity system can be essentially a threat to the long-term electricity system. You've already been in your presentation quite a bit of an explanation, so you've been talking about immediate reception and sending electricity. But it's really twice the amount of electricity our power system can receive, so I'm just wondering if it's coming in the long run to some kind of danger. The main task of Hera's work is to monitor and control the business of companies dealing with network activities the size of the network is determined by the annual work budget. And the point of regulators is essentially to calculate the correct annual budget with a small profit. As we can see from the financial reports of those companies, some end up a business year with millions of kuna surpluses. We're already several exhibitors before me were basically talking about how big a profit is being made. I think you yourself have mentioned how, in which way that extra profit is achieved, whether it goes back through additional investment in infrastructure or it simply stays on the back of taxpayers, i.e.. Do they pay for something more expensive? The electricity market, in our opinion, is in a legislative blockade and existing legal frameworks do not allow successful and competitive functioning of the open market. HERA has done nothing in our opinion regarding the creation of a new market form in the Republic of Croatia and the change of exactly such an existing situation. In the area of the gas market, all decisions made by HERA in our opinion went to block open market labour and returned essentially to state price regulation. What you yourself have mentioned is the certification of the independent work of the CAPS, you have partly answered my question, but here I will repeat it once again, it is not completed and we do not know what is going on at all and this company is the main one to facilitate the operation of the electricity market in the Republic of Croatia, which we are also warned of by the European Commission that conducts permanent monitoring. Given the fact that HERA is one of the most important energy subjects, I would ask that we answer these very important questions for us which are not covered by your report in order to make a final assessment of whether or not we will accept this report as a club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1930	Thank you. The next is for discussion on behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1931	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, and since this report is quite late and since the report covering the time period covers this report and what is happening today on the energy market for both Croatia and the world, I think about some things simply and everything. However, when these regulatory agencies and the general agencies were established in the process of Croatia's accession to the European Union, they were established for a certain reason. And I had my debate today on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club in the context of the fact that Croatian citizens have a job doing HERA and that is a key story. So if today's gas price is 13 euros, 1000 cubics and the price is '15. was an average of 25 euros and in '14. 33 to 35 euros. And then there in 2014, we changed the way that citizens will pay so that they no longer pay the cubic gas but pay the recalculated equivalent of some kind of energy delivered. And when you look at how mild this winter was, how mild it was last winter and how very strong it was in winter 2014. But when the citizens compare the bills, then you'll see it's almost paste-copy. If the outside temperature was -15, -20, and today is +10-15, then the logical thing is that it's less gas consumption. And whether or not the citizens suffered some kind of loss. And secondly, I know that gas as well as electricity is sold on the stock market as well as any other commodity and that those who trade gas buy it much earlier so they have reserves, some buy it in walking, they buy it smaller, so they deliver. But it's very interesting that the price of gas has decreased practically twice in, can't say twice, but relative to when you look at this bottom part up, compared to a year and a half, but today we're practically paying the same price of gas. That's one thing. The second thing, we were 3 years ago, HERA agreed to HEP for an increase in electricity prices by 25%. The government's argument towards the consumer was that it was because HEP has one new and large investment swing. However, when you look at this report, then you will see that due to the good hydro situation in 2014 almost 70 needs of Croatia for electricity were produced practically in the cheapest way, which is from hydro potential. However, we continue to pay 25% higher electricity prices, and from that basis HEP has accumulated quite a nice profit over the past two years, a nice profit that I call parafiscal intensification as a financier. Because if someone who's practically and almost still a monopoliest yells the price up 20, 30%, and makes a huge profit out of it, and you can't react because you're just plowing it up to buy it, then it's a parafiscal load for me. And in this way, two and a half billion kunas were taken from Croatian citizens' pockets. I didn't see any reaction. What I want to look at in particular, that's what I've talked about several times, and I have to do it because of my fellow citizens, because of my great and other citizens, and that's the price of thermal energy. So, one quite a discrepancy. I think HERA first had to react at the moment when it was given to her by an intelligence aware of the facts of the technological disadvantages of the systems that provide heat. And these stories about the divisors, telling people fairy tales. I must say that I am pleased that Mr Jurkovic, on the Committee on Economy, explained this story in a very plastic and professional way as far as the divider is concerned. But believe me, no one said that to the citizens in that way, at least they didn't hear him. Because he said if the whole building isn't served properly, you can install divisors any way you want, it doesn't mean anything to you. But when you talk to citizens, they just don't know it. That's why he was just moved by his explanation, so I spoke, decided on behalf of the club to speak in this way because probably some other colleagues in their individual debate would touch their city's problems. Now look, if we started an independent body, which is a regulatory agency, then I think that independent body must react at that time. It's his function. That is why at least I was then a member of the government told us those who instructed us to carry out reforms in Croatia and implement legislation, to comply with EU directives that there is no pressure on politics, you are independent of protecting both those who produce and those who trade and those who buy that no one deprives anyone in a competition. Now, isn't it logical if someone imposes something on someone to regulate, and they didn't create a prerequisite for one market regulation, then that regulator had to set deadlines as long as certain things had to change because look what they did. They made it happen to my greats, the Samobors, the river's heating price went from 200, 300 to 500%. And who's finally paying for it? They pay those who pay us, and we set up a regulatory agency, and we're all full of mouths today that there's too many agencies, that there's too much of this. It's not too many of those who do their job well. I thought HERA was supposed to react, too. She couldn't do something that was beyond her jurisdiction, but that the law should be applied at the moment when the preconditions were created. Are these companies that are heat suppliers, which had a monopoly, which were once utility companies untouchable, etc. Is their technology system for heat production at the level to be good. And what matters most is how many losses we will discuss when we talk about both water supply and all the losses caused by bad infrastructure. Because a lot of infrastructure is buried practically 80 cm underground, it's badly isolated. And now you can think if that pipe goes five, six, or seven kilometers to the building, then in the building as that pipe goes, what a waste of that energy. And then ultimately it's not distributed as much as who spends what apartment, because the building isn't so complex and then you have the result you have. And that's exactly why I started speaking this way on behalf of the HDZ Club. Because I just expect from the government, and also from HERA that these irregularities simply have to be corrected. We can't watch it stand like that, people can't pay infinity for something they don't spend. Because look, when you look at one of the basic reasons for the fall of standards in the Republic of Croatia and it will have to be dealt with by economists. I was talking about the government's presentation of the cost of real estate that Croatian citizens lost, and the same way that every household's budget was affected yesterday we talked about HACOM, meaning telecommunications services, energy means both gas and electricity and heating, so you'll see how much each family's budget eats. And to put it in order, I think we'd give our citizens a big swing of what someone takes away from them in one way or another. So it's something that we should simply talk about when it comes to this report because it's rightly done. So here you have determined by segments of electricity all the potential of Croatia, how much needs, how much is produced, how much is introduced. So, you've done everything right. As far as the report is concerned, I have nothing to say to you, but since we're a legislative body, I'm asking all of us a question. It's not just the law that's been passed, let's see what the effects of the law are when they apply. And there's something else I need to say. I find it illogical that a body that has public authority issues a solution that entails several hundred million revenues on 31.12. 31.12. that solution is also becoming a powerful one, as it says no appeal is allowed against this solution and cannot be initiated, but administrative supervision can be launched. But since no appeal is allowed, that means it's practically legal. And in the end, it is also in the works of this solution with a date of 31.12. Well, I'm curious to know who's so zealous as to write a solution that's very market-important. But I'm saying it was at the end of 2013, we're talking about 2014, so maybe that's why we should have just mentioned it. But I said in advance because of everything that the report was properly technically made, that all the laws we need to think about are listed inside, but obviously it's not just a good law that needs to be seen what its application is. But I'm saying there's no reason not to support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1932	Thank you. Yes, we have the Presidency of Parliament. I'm setting a break until 3:00 p.m. and we're going to be replicas later because here I thought there'd be less replica, but since four colleagues didn't make it, it's 13:30 a.m. for the Parliament's presidency that we still respect that detail. Here, I'm begging you. So, break till 3:00.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1933	[[CONTINUES AFTER A MEETING AT 15.00 HOURS]] We have four replicas on display. The first is Mr. Honorable Representative Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1934	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Shuker, my replica goes in that direction to your part of the debate when you said that HEP due to good hydrological years, good hydrological years needed to reduce the price of electricity and that's where we can agree. We aim at all who are in politics to work primarily on the welfare of citizens and you often stress that we need to talk to facts and arguments. And on that side when we're looking, that's fine. On the other hand, if we see HEP as a public enterprise as a public enterprise, it must also take care of public money and represent interests and businesses, then indirectly and Croatian citizens. It must therefore have a responsible business in order for the administration to be responsible. Of course, we could now enter a political debate, so if I mention that another Prime Minister Kosor in her government in 2011 took half of the profits and put into the budget later the truth and the past government was doing it, it comes to HEP in an unspeakable situation that has to balance between the success of business and what is actually being taken away from him. In other words, every administration of any company, so public enterprises seek to make a profit on the market and seek to be a successful administration. Also, the price of electricity cannot be seen as partial as if they were to say if we were all producing olives in the Republic of Croatia that the price of olive oil would fall rapidly. This does not have to be so special because the electricity price other than production relates to transmission, both distribution, supply, management of the system itself and market organisations. To conclude this replica, therefore, it is not just so simple to say that HEP could reduce the price of electricity, because hydropower plants are the main producers of domestic electricity being placed on the domestic market, but it is also necessary to take into account the business of such a public company. So its sustainability and economics. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1935	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1936	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Sagar, I would understand your line somewhat if HEP were no longer a monopoliest. You today have a liberalised trade in electricity in Croatia. So the price at which HEP sells the others. But I said that since the price is not justified, that the price is far above how much HEP in the purchase of electricity pay, that it is a parafiscal imposition for Croatian citizens and that Croatian citizens paid more than they should in 2.5 billion kuna in the term of this government in more than they should have paid a billion kuna for gas than they should have. So to Croatian citizens, someone with all the tax burdens that happened took 3.5 billion kuna out of their pocket. And when you add that by 2 percentage points or 8.5% increase in VAT then you take what this government cost Croatian citizens. So that's one thing. The second thing, when we talk about HEP here in the report, it says nicely that 70% of the demand for electricity in Croatia was produced by the largest work via hydropotentials. Hydropotentials were good. It's the cheapest power source. So it didn't make any sense. And these gentlemen who entered the Croatian market and also the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not buy electricity from HEP, but buy electricity from a Slovenian supplier in a public tender. So how come the Croatian Government doesn't care about that? And not to mention that this government took practically INAs through its legal change in gas supply and put it into HEP's jurisdiction. Well, that's facts. And all these games are paid by Croatian citizens. And that's why I asked one rhetorical question which function is independent regulatory agencies? It is to protect the market and everything expensive but above all to protect those who use that market, which in this case are primarily citizens because they do not have the opportunity to publicly say how many businesses they have. And I have brought my entire debate down to the problem paid by Croatian citizens 3.5 billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1937	Thank you. Another replica is the esteemed representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1938	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Shuker, I'm replicating you to the part where you spoke of the gatherings. We all remember in 2012 the new government came back then, she said everything before was wrong and set off especially with the price hike. First, they raised the price of electricity 20%, gas 25%, heat more than 30%, in some cities they allowed it to be over 60% as I said about my City of Rijeka. And then the question arises whether the HERA really is a regulator that independently and independently makes a decision or with them served the government at the time to turn their political decision into a decision by HERA. So were they independent enough to get in the way of that government? They did not try but simply gave all tariffs their consent and what happened to Croatian citizens happened. Today we hear they have great tables, they have special tariffs, special equations that calculate it, but the facts say something else entirely. When electricity prices were raised, the justification was a poor hydrological year 2011. However, all of the following were very good and we all know that the rain was more than necessary and the flood was more than necessary. However, HEP and HERA do not feel then that they need to change something and reduce the price of electricity. It happens that HEP piles of profits on one side and citizens barely make ends meet, i.e. They don't have to pay bills for electricity, and HERA says here we are the ones who regulate those prices. Where's the responsibility for these things? This is a question that we need to talk about in order to continue in this mandate to make certain changes in favour of Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1939	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1940	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Boric will, in the name of the club, I've just focused on what the most Croatian citizens get. In view of the fact that this 2014 report is based on the amounts and on the movement of energy in the world, it is a dog report. I just mentioned that for example. Today, a thousand cc's of gas cost 13 euros and in the year for which this report cost between 33 and 35 euros. But the price of the gas we pay as citizens remained practically identical. And what's worse is we don't pay the cubic anymore, and the cubic is measured on our home counters, but someone using some formula turns some kind of energy into some kind of delivered energy, but I know that household bills are exactly identical in the month when the average temperature is 10 degrees from the 1st month of 2014, when the average temperature was -10 degrees. So I just asked a rhetorical question, if we were in the reforms that we were doing when we entered the European Union to set up these independent regulatory bodies, therefore that will independently protect those who produce, those who trade and also those who buy whether HERA in that context carried out its task. Because today you can buy electricity and gas on the stock market like any other commodity traded on the stock market. Someone took the risk so he bought the gas and put it in the gas storage room. or some other warehouse seven or eight months ago, someone's doing it practically on a weekly basis, someone's working on a daily, especially with electricity, but it's a risk of business. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But today the price of gas is 13 euros per thousand cubic metres. Believe me, in no account will Croatian citizens feel the 13 euros, they still count at some price 27.28 euros, so we pay as much as we pay. Someone invented the formula that it wasn't, it's not the cube that counts at my house or anyone else's, but that it's some kind of energy equivalent or something without talking about the problem of heat energy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1941	Thank you. The third replica is the esteemed representative Drazen Barisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1942	Thank you, Vice President. Here's my colleague Schuker mentioned the situation in Velika Gorica since I come from this city I would like to stress that in 2012, so when HERA approved the gathering in the city of Velika Gorica, it collected heating in housing units that were connected to HEP heat 38.5%. Imagine what kind of strategy that is, what kind of approach it is when on the home budget in the heat price actually makes it over 10% in the home budget structure you get something by 38.5%. At the same time, why am I speaking because of the city of Zagreb where it was also sought but 26% of the Hera collection was not approved but reduced, so in Zagreb it did not collect the heating, in neighbouring Velika Gorica by 38.5%, in Samobor 38.3%, and this was done in addition to regulating the deregulation of living standards in this area, in this agglomeration let's say so in this area. Another thing I'd like to say is what my colleague Schucker mentioned. Therefore, there were changes, i.e. changes in the energy market, which were mainly the main reason to adopt, i.e. to accept an increase in prices that were later on when those prices fell, the HERA did not regulate, so there should be a regulator as it was at the time of the collection. And I think HERA should also be a regulator in relation to and in contact with a number of users, i.e. a number of citizens who have problems like this in case they write and seek concrete answers to the question of why it has accumulated, so that, apart from the usual media stories or some kind of statement, they should be answered personally.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1943	Thank you. We're moving on with individual debates. It is up to the honourable representative Josip Katalinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1944	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs and respected Mr. Jurekovic. The Croatian Regulatory Agency, HERA, was founded as a non-profit legal person with public powers whose role is to perform regulatory energy activities in the Republic of Croatia. HERA delivers or approves public service prices, agrees on system balancing methodologies, approves investment, development and system building plans to energy entities. HERA issues, extends, transfers, withdraws permits to carry out market energy activities. It's some kind of short description of the activity. In other words, HERA controls the functioning of the energy market in the Republic of Croatia. To the address of HERA, all remarks regarding the work of companies that deliver energy to us, regardless of whether it is gas, electricity, heat energy or oil processing. One of Hera's most important tasks is the protection of final customers, at least that's how I read it. They also have repressive opportunities, i.e. they can force their decisions on behalf of our citizens. In 2013, a famous Law on the heat market was adopted, forcing the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, under the threat of high penalties, under the exception of savings and energy efficiency, I would stress the word "force" to install the energy divisors into their homes. The European Union Directive 2012/27/EC of the energy efficiency to which the applicant has been called upon when proposing this law recommends the introduction of a part of the divide, however, does not force a member to introduce. The European Union countries applying the directive recommended to their citizens the installation of divisors and not as we forced citizens under the threat of fines to install divisors into their homes. This is what I'm saying from the position of the person who lives near Rijeka, near the river where we saw that there were major objections to the introduction of such divisors. Unfortunately, although the European Commission's recommendation was also to carry out an expert analysis of the justification for the introduction of the divisors, this was not done. Well, we have an assistant economy minister in the morning list since 29 October 2015 explaining why no expert analysis was made, so I would quote here. That provision does not require Member States to make an analysis of the cost-effectiveness of installing the divisors, but rather in the case where it is intended to prove that the installation would be cost-effective. It was precisely for the above reason that the above analysis was not made. Once again, one of the most important tasks of HERA should be the protection of final customers, the protection of our citizens. However, in this case, no expert analysis has been made to show which savings our citizens will have by introducing these divisors, but again I repeat myself under the threat of punishment to make them install those divisors. What we can ask ourselves is how HERA protects the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, the divisions under the Measurement Act are not measuring devices while according to the Consumer Protection Act, only what is measured can be sold to the final customer. Let's ask ourselves if the divisions have been illegally introduced. Accordingly, at the very least, the constitutionality of the law is questionable, because the same under the threat of high penalties, I repeat it many times, is a threat of high penalties, forcing residents to install divisors and thereby affecting already acquired rights of owners of these apartments. They bought them under one condition, and now they have some additional costs that they cannot avoid in any way. It is also a lie that all those who install the divisor necessarily and save. Although this has been pointed out all along and thus knowingly deceived, it has clearly shown that it saves only part of the apartments, apartments that are well energy-insulated, apartments that are in the middle of buildings. However, flats located on the edges have far larger accounts than they had before. These tenants who were in the edges, who were getting very large bills, they wanted to shut themselves down and individuals were excluded, and then they got bills to collect heat under the exception that the pipes that supply heat to the entire building would pass through their apartment, so they get bills of several hundred kunas even though they were formally excluded from the heating system. In Rijeka, you have an example of where people went out on the street because they do not know how to settle those costs. You have pensioners with here today we have listened to in the previous point an average pension of 2250 kuna where their account for the heat energy that exposes them to ENERGO amounts to up to 1500 kuna. We're asking ourselves a question, I'm the first, and we should all go together in what way are you citizens paying for warm energy in the city of Rijeka? According to calculations, if the divisions are installed in all Croatian citizens' apartments, they will have to pay about a billion kuna for installation and the cost of ten-year maintenance. Again, the question of how and when will the investment of our citizens into such a device be paid off? The result of this deliberate chaos in heat is the huge dissatisfaction of citizens who want to separate themselves from a system of joint heating, a system that, by all engineering and economic criteria, should be the most rational, most efficient and profitable, and is recommended everywhere in the world. On the contrary, Croatian citizens are shutting down from the system as I have already stated before, so they start to heat up with electricity which you must admit is absurd. No electricity can be the cheapest option, or it is not a rational alternative. Absurd situation, I will repeat I can return to the business of the Rijeka company ENERGO where illogical business situations arise again on the burden of all our citizens. In addition to the annual HERA report on page 131, it is stated that 50.83 megawatts of hours of heat energy were delivered in Rijeka in 2014. In the 2014 financial reports, ENERGO stated on page 36 that it was coming from the delivery of heat energy and hot water just over 42 million kuna. If we divide these two amounts by simple mathematics it is obtained that the average price of heat energy in Rijeka delivered by ENERGO is 835 kuna per megawatt hour and we are talking about the price without VAT, which means that it is for our citizens and greater. However, regardless of such a high price of heat energy, ENERGO achieved a loss of 10 million kuna in the activity of heat energy that year in 2014. I've been an entrepreneur for 20 years, a private man, and with such a high margin, it's completely unclear to me how they can be losers. In other words, they acquire gas or lube by about 300 kn per hour, per megawatt hour and sell 823 kunas that same energy per megawatt hour. As we can see, there's a margin almost 200% or 3 times as much, and it's completely incomprehensible to how they can be losers. I'm asking myself whether it's intentional to lose one economic operator to make it easier to privatise it and make a profitable private company at that price. A similar illogicality in ENERGO specifically, ENERGO jumps out of all of your charts, appears in the gas sector, and again on the burden of our citizens. As possible and why HERA has for years allowed ENERGO a triple margin for gas distribution from the average margin of other distributors in the Republic of Croatia. According to these data, ENERGO for each megawatt an hour of gas delivered to the Rijekas due to an average enormous 90 kn per megawatt hour, while only at the sale of gas for heating to its boiler rooms earns millions of kuna. Here at the end, Mr. Jurekovic, I would like to recapitulate or ask you the questions to which I ask you an answer. What is your position or position of HERA official with regard to the Law on the Market for Heat Energy adopted in 2013 and do you feel responsible for the chaos that occurred in the area of heat industry when the law began to apply? Second question, how do you HERA protect consumers in this case? Since you had to give your expert opinion to the legislator before the law was passed, did you give it and, if so, what kind of opinion was that, did you give a positive opinion to the introduction of a splitr or was that a negative opinion? Here's another question, when will investment in our citizens' divisors be paid off, and perhaps once again that how do I keep mentioning that ENERGO has the highest prices in the Republic of Croatia just to explain if you know why these prices are so high? [[Attack Sanader: Time fellow.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1945	There's a replica, a distinguished representative of Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1946	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Katalinić here is a short replica, and it is about your question and during the debate at the beginning and now finally about installing the divisors and reducing the costs of heat energy. What we can conclude with a simple mathematical operation see that such an installation is worth it when most of the tenants are, so 80% and more install these divisors. If you have a case that most don't install, then it actually doesn't make sense, and then what you're saying happens, people invest and they don't have a return on that investment. That's what I think the whole problem is. Here, that's all I wanted.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1947	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1948	I repeat, I come from the real sector from the economy, I'm only interested in numbers. So I'm wondering if we have the numbers when, that was the question, when our citizens, in particular, will focus on the river because I'm coming from there, when this investment will pay off. So, not what if everyone had introduced, if everyone had put the divisors in, when would they have paid off that investment?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1949	Thank you. Let's move on in an individual debate. It's our guest, Mr. Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1950	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, colleagues and fellow MPs, the Honorable President of the HERA Management Council. So here we are today discussing the report on Hera's work. You have more in your presentation based on the general state of the energy sector in Croatia and what has been happening to us in the past time than on the work of HERA itself. However, the report itself can read a lot of what HERA did during 2014 and the report itself is quite rich with various data, especially that part of the report relating to electricity. If you look at the entire report a little bit then almost half of the report refers to electricity. This is also likely because the history of producing HERA itself was first done in electricity, and later it started with gas and added heat and oil. Already, colleagues mentioned that the report was technically well done. Well, here's what I agree with, but I'd still like to make a few suggestions. When you list all that HERA has done or in some parts where you write what would be good to do in the coming time, it might be good to give a review where, on the basis of legal obligations, sublegal acts, everything that is necessary during the year for HERA to do in one table and to see how long it is for it to be done, whether it was done in that particular year and if it is not why it was not done. It is similar with all other entities that are obliged to report to HERA and can be read from the report itself that something that should have been done in 2014 was not quite done. Now, it is also related to the provisions within the laws and sublegal acts that we bring ourselves because we often prescribe ourselves that we have to do something within that time limit, then it is not done and the functioning within the real and energy sector eventually becomes a problem because we have a law that we should do something about, we have sublegal acts that should be passed in accordance with that law, and it's mostly a little late and we come to a part of the time when those who need to carry out their obligations actually don't know exactly what and how to do it. Just as a proposal, if we could get a good analysis of what is happening to us that always these sublegal acts or obligations to be carried out by an individual entity within the energy sector don't work, if they did so, and when the law was passed, it would be easier to set those deadlines, so they wouldn't prescribe for themselves something that's too short and we can't do in real time. It has already been mentioned here many times that the first role of HERA is to protect the customers themselves. Reports on several occasions state customer complaints. And you've done a pretty good statistic on which areas of the complaint are from. What may be missing in the report itself, and that is, I saw that it was made for the part relating to the HEP Distribution System Operator where they have their own council that first analyzes complaints, where exactly how many of these complaints have been adopted, how many are not. As far as HERA itself is concerned, as a second degree, it would be just as good that we can read from this report from those complaints that you received from our customers about how positive these complaints have been resolved for customers and how much, or whether HERA solves those complaints within the time limit or not? It's the same from this report in this case now that you can't see. In one section where the safety of the electricity system is mentioned, you also mention the strategy for the development of the energy system of the Republic of Croatia, which was actually adopted in 2009. The Energy Act was adopted in 2012 and Article 6 provides that the government is in fact to adopt a programme for the implementation of the Energy Development Strategy. Now, I've been trying to read the report since you're calling for a strategy on whether you're also referring to the implementation programme of that strategy and then I haven't actually been able to get to whether or not we have a strategy implementation programme? The Ministry's implementation programme should be adjusted every two years because, as already mentioned by a colleague, the strategy has not yet been done in all of this since 2009 and then the ministry has this corrective factor to bring every two years a new implementation programme and bring it into line with what is and what has not been done so far. Now I'm actually asking you a question if we don't have a strategy implementation program how and how do you decide you want some plans that you especially those parts of the system that are regulated in this case, the Croatian transmission system operator and the Croatian distribution system operator, when they ask you to think about their plans, they need to make one-year, three-year, ten-year plans based on which you will actually determine whether these plans are in line with the strategy or not when we don't have a programme to implement that strategy? If we have it, I'm asking you to tell me where to find it, too, because I'd like to read it too. In this particular data, here you can also say which are rich and especially in this electrical part of electricity may be one of the interesting data of what the situation of the entire economy was during 2014 and would actually end its exposure and this refers to where you yourself explain why the decline in electricity consumption in 2014 is 2.6% lower than in 2013 and you yourself say that this is the result of negative trends in the economy itself. It may also be a replica to colleagues who have previously been exposed, so they say there will be an increase in industrial production and thus a sharp increase in electricity consumption. This actually disproves it and tells us that we are currently in a phase when industrial production is falling, and thus electricity consumption. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1951	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear Representative Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1952	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Totgergeli, here's a replica of me this last, last few sentences. Well, it's not about someone having impressions, it's about the fact that industrial production is growing, it's a fact. You're saying now that the report also says that the drop in electricity consumption is conditioned by the fall in economic activity, and then you deny that the increase in economic activity or industry, the increase in industry will increase electricity consumption. But it wasn't just economic activity that caused the drop in electricity, electricity consumption there are other reasons why. However, you cannot do so one thesis that suits you, and when it does not suit you. So industrial production in the Republic of Croatia is growing. We are as responsible here as the MPs in Parliament, we must not just spread negative news and frighten citizens. I am truly convinced that the growth of this industrial production will then condition the increase of energy, so the consumption of electricity will then stimulate some investment in the energy sector and that this will roll over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1953	Thank you. The next individual debate is a distinguished representative, and I apologize for the reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1954	Well, I don't know if you listened well to me, but I was telling you that just in the report it said that for 2014 there was a decline in industrial production and that this herself HERA supported the fact that the drop in electricity consumption was precisely because it was a decline in industrial production. I would also very much like it to happen the exact opposite, but if we have a year-on-year drop of 2.6, 2.8, 3%. And then in one year, we make a 1.3% increase, and now we're all happy that we managed to make 1.3%. Well, of course I'm happy then, too, because at least that fall was stopped. However, the electricity consumption itself will not increase with this compared to last year because we need only just to reach what we had before. Now, when we look at whether electricity consumption is exclusively related to the drop in electricity consumption, it is exclusively related to industrial production. If you look at the other data a little bit, I can't talk about 2015 when the report reports for 2014 but then you just see that when you divide electricity consumption by categories, when you take what are households and what's left of entrepreneurship then you just see that the biggest decline in entrepreneurship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1955	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative Ivan Sincic in the individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1956	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, in today's debate, I have already asked the agency's representative, at the very beginning, a question about the energy strategy. Now in this section, you would look more at one of these three segments that are mentioned, and that's this thermal part. Most of all, the issue of the divisors that my colleagues were already talking about, and they talked about some technical characteristics so that I would focus more in another direction. So there's been a lot of complaints from citizens some accounts are smaller, some are bigger, someone's saved someone else's burden, someone's been on the burden of someone long enough to end up on the other side. But what hasn't been achieved is that not everyone paid by consumption. The main problem that led to this was coercion, citizens were pushed into something that they weren't prepared for, pushed them into something that the legislation wasn't prepared for. And even worse, there's a mention of punishment, that there's going to be so much or so much punishment, tens of thousands of kuna, I think it's a maximum of 50 thousand kuna if it's not built up to that or by that deadline. We in Croatia have a lot of problems regarding apartments and property legal works and others that will strongly dispute and delay this noble intention to mean saving on heat energy. We actually need to ask ourselves whether someone deliberately pushed the citizens into a process under the threat of punishment that they knowingly won't be able to execute just to earn tens of thousands of kuna in the event of punishment. Many of our citizens have a hard time living anyway, and now imagine this much punishment. Some of them, again, will happen that some of them will not be able to pay for it, and we already know today that because of several kunas, several hundred kunas are being lost. And there will be absurd situations, if we don't change the law, if the government doesn't change the way the absurd situation works is that someone at auction after spending a few years in a blockade will lose their only home because they're heading towards saving. So he actually ended up in a state where he wasn't going to save money, he was going to lose what he had because of the bad regulations, which is because of the legal system and the law. Experience from European countries has shown that such a measure saves energy, so we absolutely need to go in this direction, I am not contesting it, but the way it was done is not well done and is not done to the benefit of citizens. As regards specifically Energo, which is a truly extreme case, an extreme case of heat and price, it is also necessary to mention the Karlovak heat, Varazdin thermalgas and other companies. I remember these protests against Energo, I think the first one was in the 3rd or 4th month last year, it was still winter, I was there, I was at 2 or 3 protests, I even organized some, a lady came to me in one hand had a list of pensions, if I remember 813 kuna, in the other hand there was an account for Energo who was somewhere 800 kuna and she tells me, son, if you can imagine what I'm living from. And that's not an isolated case, most people there were pensioners who had to suffer the torture of this energy company completely unwarranted. So I'm asking you if you've been looking at the way Energo operates in the last five years, because if it's me, it's more about a political firm than a utility. For the end, because of all these anomalies that I have listed, which my colleagues have stated, which I hope will not, but for the time being, pull a few more years and because of all those memos that have been sent by the citizens and I have a report that many have passed and no answers which of the HERA, which of the ministry responsible for this topic Live Wall will not support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1957	It is next to the honourable representative Lucian Vukelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1958	Respectfully, I am pleased to come to the end, as I come from the most transparent city in the Republic of Croatia, so I will most transparently tell you about HERA, Energo and the whole situation as things stand. In 2011, the energo collection was 65%, after which HERA approved an increase from 0.23 kuna to 0.37 kuna per kilowatt, a kilowatt hour of energy. In 2014 from 30, 037 kuna to 0.50 kuna plus VAT, of course it was 0,60 kuna per kilowatt while at the same time in Zagreb kilowatt heat was 0.17 kuna. I want to end this debate in a way that, as my predecessors have all said, it's that in Rijeka as the most transparent city where 70 years is ruled by the same nomenclature has no feelings for those same citizens, there are no people and I believe that HERA didn't know that these people would go out on the road, but if she knew, she probably wouldn't approve it. The company Energo is not a municipal society but is a public private partnership where it is concluded let's say such a coalition with an Italian partner who was setting up these same divisions. The Energo utility company Energo is located in a 85 million kuna dubiosis where it is trying, of course, on the back of citizens to settle that debt which is also due to the Italian firm, is due, just an hour. Generally, there are 10,000 households in Rijeka that are directly held to the hostages of the company Energo. They can't be excluded from the system, they can't close because they're getting a break as said on the charge. 35% of the purchases approved in 2014 were justified that they were unable to buy energy without that increase. Of course, energy has been falling further on the market since 2014, where they were able to buy in public, directly, energy prices have fallen, they have raised prices. And HERA all that time seems to approve of the city's upbuilding, which tries with it to patch up its holes in the budget. The way it is implemented in this most transparent city in the Republic of Croatia is transparency seems only for them, not transparency for citizens as counterpart Sincic said. You can't break something over the back of a pensioner that's been broken by the bad business of a community society. I wouldn't be too long, 'cause everybody's already said enough about it. But I think that HERA as a regulatory agency would have to be a little bit careful how and how it approves, a little bit of studying the prices that are on the market, studying how to give whom the opportunity to evaluate and put pressure on the citizens. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1959	Thank you. Here's two replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1960	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Vukelić, you mentioned Hera's consent to the increase of energy prices in the first row of electricity in 2012. I have no intention of defending HERA, although HERA in this process when the Government of the Republic of Croatia increased the price of electricity by about 25% on April 29, 2012 I believe that this was the biggest blow to the standard of citizens in the past term of this government. In this decision, at the annual level of Croatian citizens, the government directly took 2 and a half billion kunas in the name of an increase in electricity and gas prices. Then HERA did not react because it did not give consent as the law provided for it to give HEP in order for HEP to ask for an increase in electricity prices. That wasn't there at the time. The government made such a decision without the consent of HERA. At that time, contradictory statements came from HERA that the government could give such an agreement to raise prices from the alleged government's 2010 demand. However, the government has defended that decision with these money, which I say is a very large amount of 2 and a half billion kuna, that it will enter a large investment cycle and build new energy facilities in Croatia. The epilogue is this: no energy facility in the last term in the Republic of Croatia did make it, and neatly, years ago, which creates huge hydro potential for Croatian and hydro power plants, which then leads to a cheap price produced by one kilowatt did not reduce that electricity price, and eventually we got the next fact that over three years, the government has drawn about 7 and a half billion kuna from citizens without making any object. In that sense, I believe that HERA should have reacted when it had already missed such a fact that it had accumulated the government of electricity without legal basis, that at least the minimum that it had to do to reduce and return the electricity price, especially because the hydro potential of Croatian hydroelectric power plants or rivers allows for very cheap electricity production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1961	Thank you. And another replica, the esteemed representative Comparić Devčić Ana.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1962	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I see that today is ENERGO topic, I feel like I am on the City Council of Rijeka and not in the Croatian Parliament where the annual HERA report is being discussed. Well, ENERGO isn't a utility company owned by a hundred percent of the city of Rijeka. You know well that ENERGO has been capitalized and that he is not in fact 100% and we are on the market and therefore we cannot speak that the city of Rijeka is filling its budget through ENERGO. It's almost impossible, and you know it well, or sitting in the City Council, if you hadn't resigned, then you'd have that information. The losses that occurred over the years when HDZ’s government was in power, which did not allow ENERGO to increase the gradual price of heating, heat energy and then accumulated losses of nearly 40 million kuna, and we, by increasing this from now on, do not absolutely cover the price of heating. It just tried to put ENERGO on the market and make the heating price really cover the costs that ENERGO has. You say 10,000 households is the hostage of ENERGO. No, what the survey showed between 3 and 5% of households received were those extremely high accounts that the city of Rijeka in this year, therefore, leveled. These citizens won't pay so extremely high. Other households didn't have those problems. So the problem is systematic. But we're only talking about 10,000 households in Rijeka. We don't talk about all those who aren't in the heat of ENERGO, but those who heat on electricity, those who heat on gas, we don't talk about them at all. We don't know what their expenses are. So now we're only talking about those who are connected to heat through ENERGO. So we don't worry about the rest of the Rijeka that's heating up on some other power source. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] And just for the end of the most vulnerable family, it always covers the city, therefore socially threatened with families, covering the city’s heating costs.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1963	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Lucian Vukelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1964	Thank you very much. Well, I guess you two weren't listening to me. I said it was a public private partnership where the Italians were. No, no, no. Public private partnership. We know what he's like, we know what relationships he's in... Public private partnership, the majority owner is the city of Rijeka so that he can fill his budget with these money as he is. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] [[Sander: Please do not throw it out of the bench.]] Those people who went out on the road aren't people who are damaged by gas, electricity, and I don't know what. They were on the road in front of ENERGA, they were talking about Mr. Kirigin and Mr. Obersnel not about HERA, they weren't talking, they weren't interested in HERA. For you, the cover of HERA was for the gathering. Paravan because you told people that HERA had raised prices. Yeah, and now I'm gonna tell you what the problem is. Those people who rescheduled the buildings, who made heat divisors, who made facades, etc. they didn't go out on the road, no, because they were normal bills but they needed 85 million losses made by that same utility then, and then the public-private company 85 million kuna was supposed to sort of settle down. That's the people on the road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1965	Thank you. And the closing word on behalf of the applicant Mr Tomislav Jurekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1966	... And all the criticism. [[Specially enabled.]] I really thank you because I think that another way to maybe clear up and, in fact, I repeat to improve communication and according to the body according to which HERA is missing, we will take this as an initial and I am again pleading with the Parliament to try to find a way to discuss these things more often than post-festum. It's not easy to group questions and comments, I'll try it, but maybe just intro you'll let me probably let me do it because I didn't quite explain that there are things that HERA can't do and things that HERA can't do because it works according to its legal powers and what HERA so I'll let myself say and can't do. Therefore, the regulator is strictly restricted from one side to the procedures and methodologies according to which it generates certain calculations and certain sizes. On the other hand, the regulator is never the creator of energy policy, so neither is its commentator. That would be a little rude. I will understand your criticisms in a way that I will try to find some third way that would obviously be according to a lot of opinions that come from the ranks of the Parliament perhaps adequate, and that is to create some sort of informal... or something similar to what the regulator would have done next to the fence if it were not competent to order the elements of the strategy or the elements of the law but might have contributed to some debate before certain directions and directions were adopted, noting some regulatory position. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Maybe that would be a better contribution. Anyway, we don't make laws. So in one part of the answer, I'll probably cross my competences, but then you take that part of the answer as a response to a man who's only been professional in energy for 25 years, so my comments and my responsibilities in that regard are then the responsibility of anyone who deals with energy in this country. I'll try to point out when it's not the responsibility of HERA. But I'll try to get in line and I'll beg nicely if I skip anything to warn me. There are several large units that we have touched here, and the first is from the morning section that has touched the two-seat electricity system. Is it evident that the size of the 2009 energy strategy is unrealised, has it led to a situation today that Croatia may have been subsidized by sources and what is the effect? On the other hand, we can also rely on this to answer the question about the implementation component of the energy strategy. Probably because of the dynamics of energy events these past years, the fact is that we, as a regulator, do not know in a strict sense the words for the implementation programme. As far as I know informally, there have been drafts of implementation programmes but they have not been formally published as such. Which doesn't mean that neither the legislator nor the ministry's structures had any pictures of themselves at the time, but as a document, it wasn't a piece of paper that HERA could then rely on. So when asked how plans were then approved, the plans were primarily approved and approved in relation to those legal obligations that each system operator has. Therefore, if it is obliged to ensure the integrity of the system, technical security and reasonable development plans with the aim of accepting acceptable demand, then this is the criterion to which the plans are to be approved. Today's plans are compromised if we talk about electricity plans on an integrated 10-year plan that has a precise one-year segment, an orientation three-year-old and a full 10-year-old. So it was some sort of plan-making orientation. But the implementing document is really something that we would all like to welcome, but also the regulator. What will happen and what happens to unsecured capacities? This is a question related to another issue raised in the assembly, which is the fact that there is a restriction on the acceptance of renewables on the electricity system? The fact is currently installed power if I remember the total electricity sources in Croatia somewhere around 4400 something over 4400 megawatts. The fact is that projections expected more construction, first of all because they were expected in a conventional way to accept renewable sources, renewable sources, let's not forget that they are intermittent in their nature. This means that the wind blows when it blows and the sun shines by day, and since electricity is needed in a certain continuity then classical sources must always compensate for imbalances. Especially since such imbalances are more predictable. You can't plan renewables as precisely as you can plan conventional sources. The fact is that the threshold has been lifted from 400 and something to about 800 megawatts as far as it is believed that the Croatian electricity system can accept at this time. However, it is a figure that still causes some recommendations among experts, we do not have this moment of consensus about how much our electricity system can truly receive inter-species sources. Assumptions are that it may not be a limit to him after all, but in any case, our system operator who is the one in charge of security currently considers 800 megawatts to be something he can accept, and that was somewhere within the quota limit. Since there are requirements for additional acceptability of renewable sources then, over the next few years, something here will need to be cleared up. However, we need to understand that this is very likely about, perhaps one detail of energy regulation and regulation of the electricity system are two different concepts. So when we talk about how to regulate the power system, it's the technical work of an operator, which, of course, the energy regulator looks at as an interested party, but does not participate in it, but we can certainly comment on it. What is happening on the market should remove the classic problem to the extent that such sources can be accepted, and this was mentioned today by the electricity stock market that opens the market for a day in advance and in some perspective will open the market within the day, all this speaks of techniques as it can be planned for shorter and shorter periods. So the problem that arises from the load of the power system is the problem of knowing in time how high your consumption will be. If you do this or plan to do it in shorter periods of time, if you are therefore improving your planning, then you will likely be able to accept more interoperable sources. The problem is to change the paradigm and the way to think about how to regulate the power system. So in this sense, surely over the next few years, the waist will need to agree its views on what the system can handle but the assessment is this way, observing that the system is not compromised, but that we should definitely continue to work on this problem. What will be wrong with the Croatian electricity system? By 2020, something more than 1000 megawatts of existing power plants should come out of the system partly because it is about older maputaries or someone already due at the end, and electricity capacity should definitely compensate for the combination of conventional modern sources and perhaps a different approach on the part of renewable sources in the perspective. And here we can't see if we can comment on the immediate threat, but the necessary construction of several conventional sources is probably something that we need. The implementing act would probably clear that up. So much for the power system as it is. Warm energy is a topic that has emerged through several groups of issues. Again what HERA can't do. In 2014, a new Law on the heat market was adopted and I think I noted in my opening statement that it was a rather courageous step in which some analogies were tried at least we saw it as the intention of the legislator, analogy with electricity markets and gas markets. Why analogies? Because these markets, i.e. these supply chain structures, are divided into what is completely left to the market and what is permanently regulated because it has an infrastructure character. Therefore, every time we talk about the final price paid by the customer, we should always remember that only one part of that story can be regulated by protecting both customers and protecting ourselves by a clear methodology. So the regulator deals with wires and pipes to maybe be a little drastic. Production is basically not a regulation problem, it's on the market. It's about the manufacturer's competition. On the other hand, it's about the competition of merchants who sell. The final price other than those of several fully regulated systems is essentially not fully controlled by regulators. But thermal energy has introduced a rather brave buyer of electricity as a new element. Now in the heat energy chain there's production, there's distribution, there's someone called the buyer and someone called the final buyer. It does not sound good, but the role of the customer should be to put pressure on the energy price through mutual competition in the energy supply and in performing operational functions on the facilities themselves. The fact is, that component of the market hasn't spread yet. Maybe because customers are by nature things, I'm talking about customers not end customers, companies that operate locally, and that's not even creating any kind of competition that would go between bidders. But maybe time will show something else. The paradigm of the problems that arise in the heat energy now seems to be in the divisors. However, let me remind you that in fact the chronic problem of topolinarism in Croatia is much more permanent. Today energy, energy and energy supplies are no longer the subject of municipal activity, communal activity is something from which energy was allocated 7 to 8 years ago if not more. During the municipal energy environment, prices were formed at the primary local self-government level and they were a direct instrument of social policy. Which means that above all in the heat energy we had underrated absolutely underrated tariffs all over Croatia. Over time, tariffs have been brought closer to what their real costs are. It is very often about objects that are old, which have not been planned or renewed, where there has been no planned investment. These jumps, which are most commonly referred to, were the arrival at some or some acceptable level of alimony of the underlying property. It used to be done definitely fat under the cost. This means that the delays and delays for one side are the price of energy that cost as much as it cost. On the other hand, modernizing the objects themselves actually at one point led to a necessary leap. Energy and energy and energy regulation can't handle jumps. We like to function and try as hard as we can in some continuous trend that we hope some times are mostly going in a positive direction. However, in heat energy, there was definitely a need for a jumping adjustment to the cost level at one point. That actually happened. Maybe I should also remind you that we're talking about 2012 or '11. in which there were several jumps of energy, energy prices both in electricity and in gas and in heat energy it was time before the Croatian regulator was given the power to form. It was a time when the Croatian regulator could and should not have asked for an opinion but his opinion was optional for decision-makers. Therefore, the price was formed at the level of either the Ministry or here and there of local self-government but was not in HERA's control. HERA's story begins in that component since 2013. This may not be exculpatory to HERA of all sins or failures, however, in any case it was not the responsibility of HERA at the time and I commenting on the known fact of toplinism. So above all, the basic principle is that the energy price cannot be below the cost because it actually affects the functioning of energy subjects and if they fail, the entire energy system collapses. The regulator never enters the micro-regulatory either at technical level and especially does not enter into the business of certain companies. This means that when we get from any energy subject we follow and there are probably 800 total licensed in Croatia then we look at him with his figures and the justification of individual positions in his numbers. It is not the responsibility of the regulators or the ministry or anyone other than the company's administration to run the political companies concerned. Therefore, the regulator does not see that element, the regulator only sees what has been submitted to it as a possible request for the correction of a specific regulated component. But when I comment on heat as a whole, then we mustn't interfere with the idea that it was in some way a sick energy sector that had to try first and at least to cover its own costs. Maybe even that hasn't been achieved anywhere since you can, see these prices in Croatia haven't been ironed anywhere yet. But in one part they began to maintain real costs. One part of the company no longer appears as problematic but is thought to have a normal basis for functioning. Heat is sensitive. Today there are modern thermal systems but they require the rejection or write off of existing plants and the installation of completely new ones. It takes money to get all that together, and it takes time. Divisions are not energy-saving devices. Divisions won't save anyone their energy. The problem of the divisor is part of a possible solution imposed by the European Directive on energy efficiency and in the end line and our national energy efficiency policy where power measures are important. So first and foremost, you have an object to measure how much energy has entered and then per square metre is distributed across individual apartments. There was no opportunity for an individual to influence their own consumption in any way, so it was a proverbial regulation to use heat by opening a window. So probably the legislator felt that opening up the possibility, not the possibility, but the obligation to install or measure heat or where it is not possible and it was technical reasons. There are collective housing buildings that have vertical and that have horizontal divorces, everyone can't have a calorie but everyone can have a divisor, so basically it opened up the possibility for one or the other. It is very likely that someone in the chain has missed enough technical to prepare this action because it is very likely that it is adequate to prescribe the obligation to balance the heat system at the building price level. Unless it's done already from the heat pump throughout the facility, the divisions themselves won't give the right picture. So first, every apartment has to have divisors. Secondly, the entire system in the building needs to be balanced. And then what do you have? You have the possibility that within the total consumption of a single housing unit they know relatively how much they participated in this whole. However, there is another sin, and it is a sin that Germany, for example, does not have. When you buy an apartment in Germany that has 50 apartments then each apartment is supplied with a common source of heat, then each of these properties is different price depending on how specific its energy consumption is. The apartment located at the top in the north relative to the apartment located in the middle of the south is significantly different values than real estate because it will permanently spend a different amount of energy throughout its lifetime. It's something we may have missed all together to figure out when we were determining how to operate in common housing systems. So thermal energy, central thermal systems are a couple of excellent examples of collective housing. You can't, not that you can't, but it's hard to assume that you can decide tomorrow not to use the stairs, not to use common lighting. So these are some special circumstances. And when you're separated from the thermal system, you're left with one part of the total cost, so the installation is what it is. I just want to say not to enter and not knowing the details of the business of certain companies but the split system itself is probably well imagined, it works in Denmark, it works well in parts of Germany. In Germany, one part of the energy regulation in the responsibility of Bundesländer is therefore not all at federal level but there are places where it is proven and well functioning. It probably takes some corrections, but there's no reason why this basic principle, which is the possibility that you can influence and measure, might not work with us if I'm allowed to end up being unprepared enough. Even though we do not have direct responsibility, it was truly regrettable to see the problems that were happening. But I repeat, as are the problems that occur in the dynamics of the electricity market where there are people who are quite realistically and justifiably complaining about the processes of certain suppliers. It's about one piece again. So our assessment might be of some systems, maybe some concepts should be promoted, improved, maybe run a little too fast. However, there is no reason why they basically do not give with certain corrections of results. So, if I've now tried to cover one piece of heat and the electrical energy system, there were a few more questions. There was one thing going on with the certification of our operatives. I think I touched that in the morning, but in any case, we're certified according to the European Commission, PLINACRO as a gas operator and HOPS as an electric operator. One and the other process lasts in the formal sense of the Law on Administrative Procedure for about 8 months, and in the right sense the words are about a year and a half to two. The more complex problem in implementation is the CAPS, as the CAPS is certified or certified according to the ITO model, according to the model of an independent transmission operator. I repeat the aim of certification is to confirm to the European Commission that the transmission operator, i.e. the transport operator, is set up as an independent organism on which he or she owns or has been independent, no one on the side can influence that in practice the principle of the third energy package, which is that the operator must provide services to everyone under the same conditions and that there is no possibility of a premium on him. We hope, given that we have received a positive opinion from the European Commission on the draft of our certification solution, that within a short time, I hope that this will be the last operator of the transmission system in Europe, which will actually be accepted as a fully equal partner. PLINACRO has remained, although at the beginning he is a simpler problem at solving several last points that concern more the owner's authority. We hope, therefore, that certification in which a lot of effort is really put to an end will soon be completed, so that it will no longer be subject to certain issues of pilots or similar documents by the European Commission or ourselves. There were comments on the regulated price, i.e. the unregulated price. So, I'll just recapitulate for a little bit. In electricity since November 2014, the price of electricity for universal service has been deregulated, which means it eventually forms and proposes only the holder of the universal service and that is HEP. Until then, it was also regulated in its final component by the amendments to the Electricity Market Act, the price of universal service. It is a difolt service that goes to every household buyer in Croatia is deregulated. But any deregulation can have a positive and bad outcome. We currently live in a time when prices and electricity and gas have a downward trend. That's good, but one day it'll go in some other direction. So the market for this hour is working for us as quickly as we can get it to the final buyer that might be able to talk. But right now, trends are positive. One day they can be different and it's a fact to face. And finally to try and maybe comment on our responsibility in all this. So whether an independent regulator could, should have or had to react on time, that is, as they say in time or in light of certain problems. To the extent that it is his competence certainly yes. Where it is the competence of a legislator or someone else, a third format should be found, because a direct reaction is not allowed. One of the principles of the Directive or of the Eu guidelines in both gas and electricity is that the regulator should not give suggestions and no suggestions should be taken. That's the assumption of his independent position. However, I receive criticism and we will indeed try to create some kind of platform, a format like this or one where our views except that in all our meetings we always present them, so according to the new Heat Act, we have had certain reserves, I will not say reserves, but we have warned of possible consequences. However, perhaps we are not sufficiently transparent in this regard, perhaps our attitudes should be more pronounced. Equally some part of the procedure that could be called an impact analysis, what the European Parliament has regularly in its procedures, for example, is this action assessment, I apologize to the European Commission not Parliament. So the impact assessment should probably go deeper. But maybe it's all an expensive victim of the pace at which we all function. So what some of the happier countries of the European Union have been doing for 10, 12 years adapting to new energy and to market energy, we compromise, we work at two, three. Mistakes are probably inevitable, we'll try to minimise them as much as we can. I'm hoping not to go into some kind of methodological thing right now that I've said most of the things, and as far as communicating with the citizens is concerned, and that maybe I'm finishing it, I'm convinced that no one has left an answer. I am convinced that a large part of the answer did not cause much happiness in those who complain, because objectively, at least 80% of the cases are insufficient information that people complain about things that, as individuals, may have had unfortunate circumstances basically were legal, procedurally fine. I'm sure no one was left without an answer, saying how pleased he was. We also receive criticism and I believe that this is the area in which we have to work most is that the information about which are rights, which are the procedures we give as often as possible, as clearly as possible, to change our archaic website into something that is much more modern and clean, but we must not forget among others that energy customers are not customers of telecom services. They're older. Their technological adaptation to modern methods is something different. Therefore, the web is not the only solution. The solution is a comprehensive communication strategy that goes towards customer information. How much can we protect them? We protect them so far reactively when we complain we try to do the best we can. Our challenge is to protect customers from opening up to the outside and to do something that is more understandable every day. I hope that's most of my answers, but I'm asking you nicely to remind me if I missed something serious. The questions about ENERGO may only be answered to some extent. So, on the one hand, we really can't have anyone else commenting on the company's business except her management. For ENERGO, in particular, it is likely that some of the investments that took place over the past 10 years may have been a little too much appetite. I happen to know because I came from the gas part of this job to the regulation business that ENERGO has seriously invested in the reconstruction of the gas network. In a city like Rijeka which is not flatly laid, which has one complicated relief, which has complicated loads of such investment I think it was about 120 km of polyethylene net had to cost a lot. And it must be burdening the balance today. I'm not saying it's the only answer but that's certainly the problem ENERGO has. Why does ENERGO have, for example, a higher price in the distribution or gas supply than in some others? I don't think he's the only one. There are 5 such distributors or local suppliers in the Republic of Croatia that even function within something we call a regulatory account. So they're a little methodologically isolated. Why? Because these are all companies that have had very large investments in the near past. Regulatory model, how do you determine the tariff? Otherwise, it reacts very quickly to a large investment by increasing the price. To make the investment as it was in ENERGO, such as in several other places in Croatia in the usual methodology so as to apply the standard methodology, this would result in an extremely high price hike. The example for you is FAUN, which today builds distribution networks in Dalmatia and since it invests in the past year two concentrated high investments, this would reflect such a price of gas that the methodology is uniformly applied so that it could practically not work. So some of the distributors have a little specific circumstances. But most often this relatively high price of the network component is a repercussion of investment in a relatively short past. So, I can't say much about ENERGO, but I guess the combination of the fact that for many years it hasn't been understood that energy prices have increased, so there's been some kind of impact, plus maybe unfulfilled expectations from the investment in the gas system because objectively, there's... significantly smaller than the time studies showed for a number of reasons probably led to a complex situation like ENERGO today. So much for what I managed to fatten up here. Thank you for all your questions and please if I missed something.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1967	Thank you. We have five replicas for this debate. The first replica, the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1968	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Jurekovic, I am not satisfied with your response to my finding that HERA missed a warning in 2012, so I would say and remove the possibility that the government would increase the price of electricity that it increased because it had no legal right to do so based on the government's alleged request from 2010. We've talked about it many times in the Parliament, I believe that's when HERA acted and exhausted all the possibilities. In fact, HERA is not a debate club, HERA is clearly defined by law by a regulatory agency that regulates a system that is very important for the standard of Croatian citizens. The price of energy and the consent given by HERA depends largely on the standard of Croatian citizens. So I believe that you missed last year, this Parliament adopted the Law on Renewable Energy, which established the national goal of establishing in Croatia about 20% of the consumption of electricity coming from renewable energy sources by 2020. And we are at the HDZ Club and at the time we argued that the government is not telling the truth when it claims that the implementation of this law will not require additional funding because you yourself, or HERA, wrote in its report that this goal would be achieved that the price of electricity for a Croatian citizen will be increased by around 10 June, which is about 350 kuna at an annual level. I argue that even then, in this debate that the government carried out within the framework of the adoption of the law itself, HERA had to be clearly manifested and even in the Croatian Parliament to warn of the fact that it is not anyway the law that will cost Croatian citizens in the future in a financial sense and that there will be a significant increase in electricity and electricity prices. I therefore believe that HERA then failed to do what she could as she missed it in 2012 when she allowed an unlawfully enormous increase in electricity prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1969	Thank you. Second replica, distinguished representative Ana Comparić Devčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1970	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I believe that in his final presentation, colleague Jurekovic said one key thing about the so-called so-called. The rampage of heat prices, which is when you said that heat from the communal has actually gone into market activity, that it is now on the market. And that's what all these price disturbances have been about. I am extremely glad that you mentioned it because in the replica I did not arrive at the huge investment made by ENERGO in Rijeka and all that is, in fact, the consequence that we are one of the safest cities regarding therefore gas infrastructure, it is underground, it is not seen and then, of course, people forget and do not think how much such infrastructure costs. But what I would like to ask you is that, and that was often mentioned when it came to ENERGO in Rijeka, then I will now ask you to answer us in response to the replica. So there is HEP Heat, HEP Heat is used by the City of Zagreb, Velika Gorica, Sisak I think and maybe some other cities I don't really know about right now. And this is what HEP Heat says to cover its losses in the price of heating from HEP electricity, which is therefore distributed by HEP throughout Croatia. What does it mean that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia would actually pay in some way to cover the price of loss of HEP Heat and cheaper heating in Zagreb, Velika Gorica and other cities? I know that there are some other cities like Rijeka, Karlovac, Vukovar that have their heat and all these companies are squirming in losses. So I would now ask you to explain to us if it really is as I have now asked because it is often mentioned that one of the reasons why Zagreb and other cities have cheaper heating than these cities that have their energy distributors? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1971	Third replica. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1972	Maybe I can stay here if you can hear me. So again from the view of the regulator. Method of methodology as to how the price and what the regulator can do in centralised systems and there are three systems in Rijeka and HEP Heat systems. They are based on the fact that they are regulated ex ante, which means that they set prices in advance and not backwards, and some times because of that the regulator has no business results of what will happen on the market. What happens according to our assessment, or methodology, allows every company to request a price correction. The methodology in Croatia does not work in a way that the regulator itself imposes the price even if it is at large that it might be opportunised. There's something called information asymmetry in regulation theory as well. So the regulator never knows what the sector knows. He knows 20% of it. So the regulator is relying on the data provided by the sector. The form is always to ask for a price correction. If HEP Heat is estimated, or if HEP as his mom estimates that at a given time she is looking for such and such a level beyond that, the regulator cannot go. So, if there is a possibility that through the allowed revenues of heat in Zagreb and Osijek they could get much more of their choice, their right to demand that price they believe they can also place at a given time. Therefore, they have a choice. We didn't have a chance to impose it. What we don't have any proof is that it's happening from the heat sector to the electricity sector. So the conclusion that somewhere in the price of electricity at the level of all Croatia is compensated for the losses that exist in the heat industry for this we do not have... So there are separate bookkeeping and everyone in principle needs to keep accounts by separate spats. He didn't have information for that kind of thing. I allow that there can always be something that the regulator does not know, but the fact is that it is not required of us to correct such a price in the areas of Zagreb and Osijek.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1973	It's our guest, Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1974	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Jurekovic, you today and in your debate have highlighted the triangle in which the regulator is actually located, a triangle that must satisfy. These are three foreign customers, investors and entities in the energy system. In 2012, and you have now pointed out HERA did not actually have a binding, it did not give a binding opinion that had to be respected, it was not your legal position. In this case, HEP explains its request to increase electricity prices based on business sustainability and business logic. That year, the administration receives a request for an increase in electricity, electricity prices. What the HDZ colleagues here are saying is, what actually led to that, 2011. The government of Jadranka Kosor takes half of the profits of HEP and thus puts HEP in an awkward situation because or by borrowing otherwise it must achieve its sustainability and, in particular, related to the strategy adopted and adopted in 2009. My actual question to you is in this sense whether HEP really is your request, although your opinion was not impersonal, was it really based on any logical demands? My personal thinking that it is almost certain, because who would not go such an increase, here is talking about a major blow to the citizens, who would go such an increase just to make a mistake in expressing myself to the citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1975	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1976	I can't actually answer, I can possibly just say my opinion. I'm convinced it's not, but I'm saying that in the meantime there have been certain methodological improvements, the powers are different today, so comment perhaps in 2011 or 2012 from my position it's not easy but I am convinced that the government had its reasons. Because I'm saying our opinion is strictly respected in that case. Thus, this is what in some ways always restricts us from the other side and protects us.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1977	Thank you. It is next for the replica, the esteemed representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1978	Thank you very much. My colleague Jurekovic, you wondered if you might have been able to do something, you should have and had to do it without doing it. Well, I would remind you of the April of 2012 when the government approved HEP a one-time increase in electricity prices by 30% without any justification. There was no reasonable nor rational or economically justified reason for such a terrible increase, and you quietly approved a financial blow to the entire Croatian people. Would you keep your mouth shut if 100% was raised then the price of electricity was increased? Would you react as a regulatory body that maybe 200 percent raised the price of electricity? Would you stay calm about all that, watch it calmly? Well, you're a regulatory body, you're an agency, and there's no excuse that you've been looking at it all the time. What happens in one day to the entire Croatian people 30% higher prices, electricity and no justification. The only excuse is to increase HEP's profits. So then we could increase the price by 200 percent and we'd have an even double hep profit and you'd still exist and you wouldn't do anything about it. So just in this case, not to spread further, you could, and you had to react and you didn't react, and that's your unforgivable failure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1979	Thank you. The next replica is distinguished representative Lucian Vukelic You're not, please, you're not. [[I apologize, look.]] You'll give it later. [[I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1980	In 2012, the topic that I think we're multiple times, I'm just repeating our reaction was then written, what we saw in relation to the data we got. Nothing obliged the government to obey or disobey us at that time. They weren't our competencies in 2012. You'll remember and I've been from this House, back in the last three years as far as I've submitted the report I've received several times a suggestion to be expected from me not to be... So if you remember the only spark that's been splattering through the newspaper these past few years, it's mostly been sparks that were ruffled between HEP and regulators, we're convinced that we weren't HEP's regulator. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if in 2012, we were able to exceed our powers, I take it as a criticism, I take it as a responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1981	Thank you. The last replica of the esteemed representative Lucian Vukelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1982	Thank you. So this is how I managed to figure out from this broad explanation of yours and everything like this looks like we're in a gray zone as far as heat is concerned. So the gray zone that the mayors and the mayors and all those who manage thermal energy in a particular area will be able to use. So you don't have any significant influence on that because you don't know what these prices are and what prices they're dealing with, how they raise it, how they drop it, etc. The second thing, I wanted to ask if it was possible to gather in certain such cities as in this case Rijeka happens in a way that customers do not report any addition that follows. So the collection announced was announced exclusively through some media that the customers were not informed that there would be a collection and it would be 60% and then it would be 35%. So the last question I wanted to ask is whether it can be as you yourself said it was singled out to heat and other media like HEP, i.e. electricity or potential gas production shall be compensated through the heat price, compensated for gas investments. So you have gas industry as one part, heat like the other. You have competences over gas industry, you don't have heat, but you can compensate for investment in gas industry from the heat industry. Well, I really don't understand it sometimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1983	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1984	So here we go from the end. The company that deals with several activities may, after the draw-up at the level of consolidated results, use the profit it has achieved in any of these activities by investing wherever it wants. The problem is that the cost of certain verticals should not be poured over on each other. So the information on the basis of which certain accounting components are obtained results for that energy activity, that is the principle of accounting separation. But in the end, if you compensate for minus one plus the other at company level, then it's acceptable to invest that kind of profit in the part you're owning. Are we like regulators in the gray zone, that's only if we're in full energy in the gray zone. So the final price is not our product. Ours, regulation of those parts we do, is the ultimate price most often not. The system works in such a way that where the price is, where the price should be checked we get information that the price correction is being prepared. We formally look at it, check it and say it is consistent with the calculation, your calculation is fine and after that the company is essentially required at least 15 days before the entry into force of new prices in one of the intended legal ways to inform its customers. This is not true by direct notification to the address, it is usually one of the newspapers most distributed in the local area, on the web or in some similar way. So the obligation is and it is legally prescribed that at least 15 days before the corrections of the customers are taken into account in an adequate way and the objection to, say, the failure in that sense is in any case something that we are seriously considering.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1985	Okay. This concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote when the voting conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1986	Next is the report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2014. The report is submitted by the Croatian Regulatory Agency. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal for a Committee on Economy, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Annual report on the work of the Croatian Regulatory Agency for 2014. A year.". Please vote. The vote is over. 101 votes for, 4 abstentions, 12 against. I find that most of the votes have come to the conclusion that it was proposed by the Committee on the Economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1987	We will do one more point: - Report on the achievement of the budget of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2014; Reporter is the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, based on Article 33. Law on energy regulation. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy. I'd like a representative of the applicant if he wants an additional explanation. Mr Tomislav Jurekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1988	... I'm going to be extremely brief at this point, so I'm only going to brief you because I'm probably going to head you up with this so far to report on the financial situation of the regulatory agency. [[Specially enabled.]] So since its status as defined by the Law on Regulation, the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency is not financed through the state budget. It is financed by the contributions of regulated entities, i.e. it is financed by 0.5 of the total revenue generated by those companies to which, as a general criterion, HERA gives a work licence or recognises the status of a regulated entity. This is a model of funding that has been largely accepted in Europe as the most qualitative model for the financing of independent regulators, since, of course, it allows a slightly longer-term view of financial needs. Two to three years have passed in which the regulatory agency has tried to be reasonable in relation to the otherwise state of society carried out a rather restrictive policy both its own investment and employment, and in this respect the results are actually more or less equal year by year. In 2014, we are talking about revenue at some 27 million and expenditures of around 22 million. This is somewhere in which the Hera has been moving for the past years, expecting that what remains after the difference will be used in the years ahead, because the European Union that we have already mentioned as one of the main load drivers that regulators in countries today have increasingly more and more complex obligations that will most likely require and the expenditures that regulators have not had in recent years. In this regard, for example, we are in that combined control of the financial component of the energy markets that goes under the common name REMIT, so control of the wholesale market, bonds of supply of certain software, mandatory... Some kind of equipment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We hope that this kind of funding will be enough to cover these increased expenditures in the coming years. For now I say HERA had a solid foundation. In the last two years, these results have been similar. HERA has 64 employees today. At the end of 2014, for which the report was submitted, it had 63. These are basically experts who are highly qualified, which are difficult to keep, but which are absolutely necessary for the work of the regulatory agency. For 2014, it is important to note that the administrative and financial supervision of the Ministry of Finance has been carried out over HERA's accounts, so they have been thoroughly combed. I'm glad there wasn't one single remark in the way the finances were run. In this respect, there is therefore no specific feature of the report on HERA's business in 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1989	Thank you. Does a representative of the board want to take a word for it if there's anyone? There's no one here. No one signed up for the hearing. Then I'll close the debate and we'll vote when the voting conditions are met. We're done with this. Tomorrow at 12:00 vote. We start at 9.30 tomorrow with the ninth item of the agenda – Annual Report of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency for 2014. Thank you very much. That's what we finished the session with today.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-04-0.u1990	Report on the achievement of the budget of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2014. Reporter Croatia Energy Regulatory Agency. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal for a Committee on Economy, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The report on the achievement of the budget of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2014. A year.". Please, let's vote. The vote is over. 102 votes for, 14 abstentions, one against. I find that most of the votes have come to the conclusion that it was proposed by the Committee on the Economy. On behalf of the club, here you go, Mr. Maras.
