ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u72	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. We continue with the agenda point: - Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, first reading, P.Z. No. 7, Proposer: Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists; On the basis of Articles 172 and 184. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Before that, I saw a few colleagues come forward, I guess, for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u73	I would like to thank the President, so on behalf of the Labour and Solidarity Party, People's Reformists and Independents, I would like to point out in the next presentation on the situation of paying for the mining rent in the Republic of Croatia, what status is MOL here in Croatia and what are the legal solutions on this issue in the Republic of Hungary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u74	You got it. Comrade Alexic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u75	Thank you, Vice President. I want to talk about yesterday's powerful verdict, about how this will reflect on the Republic of Croatia, on debtors who illegally agreed on variable interest rates, actually the bank imposed this on them, by saying what we could do and what variants are possible now after this first powerful, first rightful sentence to repay the amounts of interest paid, because so far we've had rulings that were only legally based Okay. Okay, I'm two minutes straight, so I wanted some, okay. [[Intruder Jandroković: Well, be, you will discuss it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u76	All right, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, A fellow Simic. ... Excuse me. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u77	Dear Vice President, I'd like to speak on the subject of yesterday, I don't know if I can since we're from the same club. The organisation of the Parliament for yesterday's funeral of our people who were killed in Maribor in Tezno in the Hudi Cave, why did the Parliament fail to leave, why didn't the Parliament organise some means of transport, so some people would surely go there to bow down to those victims? And I don't know for what reason, because some people could have been organized and others could've failed to leave. So I ask the question why wasn't it done in this House and from the President of the Parliament, I wanted to ask him?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u78	So, as far as taking a break is concerned, you can talk within 5 minutes of both of you, there can't be two breaks per 5 minutes. And as for this, I have to check, I've got information that goes organized in the Republic of Slovenia and this is for me new information so I'm going to check with the President of the Parliament whether it was a district that was available to all MPs or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u79	No, the clubs didn't come to anyone, no one informed us, no one organized just certain people, I think it's pulsism for other people to see each other and I don't think it's a good thing to be so... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u80	Okay, so I ask that during the break, during the debate you communicate it and I will check what happened and why it was not available and told to all MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u81	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u82	Are there any more interested, yes, colleague Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u83	I thank Mr. Vice President, I am looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the IDS, PGS and RI Club to discuss problems related to the professional training measure for work without establishing the working relationship with our young, unemployed youth in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u84	It's okay. No more requests for a break, then we give a break of 10 minutes and move on to 9.48 minutes. It's 9:00.38. We're going back to work. The first came to the word of the esteemed colleague Željko Lackovic on behalf of the Party of Labour and Solidarity Club, Reformist and Independent Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u86	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues at the beginning of today's session, I have a need to point out one of the circumstances that has been present for longer in our social, economic life, which has not been talked about much and which represents one great injustice for local communities where gas and oil are exploited. And on the other hand, one great favor to our company INA and now in the light of these events, so they announce that the refinery in Sisak has been shut down. It's time to talk about it. Thus, by 2014 when it was adopted, the government adopted a regulation on the compensation for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbon concessions on gas and oil extraction amounted to 5%. So it was the income of a local self-government unit of 2.5%, 1% were given to counties and 1.5% of the state budget. In 2014, then, only 11 years after INA in full terms became a private company with a heavy influence on Hungary's MOL, we make a new decision that corrects this amount of rent from 5 to 10%, and now the ratios are that 3% points belong to the local self-government unit, the city and the municipality, 2% points to the county and 5% to the state budget. And with these 10%, Croatia is far below what MOL pays in Hungary because in the Republic of Hungary the initial rent in oil and gas production is 12% and for older gas and oil plants, or wells up to 60%. So where all the investments made by MOL in Hungary pay 60% of the value of oil or gas acquired, and imagine in Croatia 10%. So, which is why after the moment INA became a private company in full sense because before that INA was a very socially engaged company, it was developing landscapes, it was taking care of roads. So her social role and her activity made sense not to introduce rent. All the rent becomes the revenue of the state budget, and then it wouldn't change much. But now that the profit is generated and that profit goes into private hands why in the Republic of Croatia we have a 10% rent and in Hungary it's 60% for such wells as we do? I will remind you that 57 wells are located in the continental part of the Republic of Croatia, 3 are in the Adriatic. I will also remind that Bulgaria and Turkey have 12.5%, Slovenia has 18%, Russia has 22% concession fee and my proposal is to keep an eye on the fair distribution of these funds coming from the mining rent, not the income of the Republic of Croatia, or the state budget, but the income of local budgets in order to compensate all these measures of announced tax policies in relation to income tax. So it is unnecessary for us to be greater Catholics than the Pope, if MOL pays 60% in its country to pay in Croatia, and I will tell you about the value and wealth of the former Đurđevac municipality, which in view of the average of 12% as in Hungary compared to how rent was paid in the Republic according to the applicable regulations and quantities of oil and gas obtained territorially for 200 million kunas per year or if you put it to extract 50 years of oil and gas in our area then you can calculate that these are enormous sums in billions. And we're still not Norway, we're still getting gas and oil, still MOL pays a few times less and now wants to shut down the refinery and export our oil and process who knows where, put it in a Bosnian ship or somewhere else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u87	Thank you very much. Replications are not possible on these opening statements. So we won't have a replica. The second to answer the word is distinguished colleague Goran Aleksic on behalf of the Representatives' Club Let's change Croatia and the Force. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u88	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, yesterday was a very important day, actually September 30, 2016 was a very important day. The first powerful verdict has been reached saying that the Split Bank must return about 11,000 kunas of overpaid interest to Šimi Rushin from Zadar plus tight interest. This is very important because that is how court practice is finally established because so far we have not had any rightful judgment. So I would remind you of the chronology that it all went together. In 2011, we had the first verdict, but it was the Court of Honor's verdict in the Dadic case where Mr. Dadic, in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, sued the bank and demanded that the way the interest changes be declared worthless. The court of honor has ruled that this way of changing interest is invaluable. It was published in public and it was actually just one moral condemnation. However, the bank damaged the moral judgment in a way that acted like a mare when the train of haystacked. The next verdict was in the collective court case, where it was found that 7 out of 8 defendants were illegally changing interest rates between 2003 and 2008. After that, the debtors began to press charges. We have a whole series of first-degree convictions. We also have one final verdict in the Mastelic case in Split, but without payment. We have one final verdict where the lawyer got paid, but only because the bank didn't file a complaint, so it was settled very quickly. And now we finally have a verdict where the bank's appeal was rejected and that's how the court practice was stabilised. What we can do in time could even be decided by law to return overpaid interest to all debtors in a manner prescribed in accordance with the laws. What's important to say about this verdict? This judgment concerns a period of 5 years from the judgment. So the lawyer asked, or the prosecutor asked for the payment of what the bank had overcharged for five years ago. In my opinion and in the opinion of many legal experts with whom I have spoken to antiquity in such cases should not be primarily because of this because the collective verdict, the lawsuit in the collective court process, is interrupted, and the power of the statute of limitations begins to start over. This also applies to individual processes. So, if someone presses charges, the lawsuit ends forever, and by a powerful verdict in favour of the prosecutor's statute of limitations begins to start over. And all the first-degree judgments I've seen so far that have been raised in a way that requires the full amount have been ruled in favour of the prosecutor. And I expect to be judged in the county courts as well. The second question concerns converted loans. There is a question whether debtors who converted CHF loans can get overpaid interest. There are already several rulings that determine that such debtors also receive overpaid interest, and the main argument is that in the calculation that the loan was due to flow into the euro loan, the same euro credit as the contracted CHF credit was also used by illegal interest rates that the bank was increasing on its own free will, thus not entirely that conversion was legally effected. As a result, we can hope that even converted debtors will be entitled to overpaid interest rates, on interest. How to pass the law? First of all, it is necessary to establish the statute of limitations without doubt. Therefore, it would be very good to establish that collective court proceedings break the collective court process out of date, and for individual processes of old age, it begins to start over with the day of power of judgment. Among you there are probably also debtors who, who ran loans with unlawfully agreed interest rates. It would be very good if each agent who has agreed on such a loan were to press charges, thus showing by example how to treat unwitting business entities. So I appeal to all of you who have such loans to definitely file a lawsuit and thus get your overpaid interest rates. That's how much I wanted to say about it. My colleague Misic also wanted a break. He wanted to ask why yesterday not all the club representatives received information about going to a memorial in Slovenia. Here, that's what I wanted to say for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u89	Thank you very much. And the last five-minute debate of distinguished fellow Tulio Demetlika on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, PGS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u90	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In fact, I've been looking for this break to talk about issues that have brought more young people from my constituency to me. But I believe and I'm sure he's fighting them and a lot of young people all over our country. In view of the lack of resources in the state budget to finance measures for the professional training of young people, it has been decided that the measure will be financed in part from the European Social Fund. This appropriation is intended to cover: The first is the implementation of an active youth employment policy and the second is the implementation of an active employment policy for long-term unemployed young people. The first project includes the target group and young unemployed people aged 15 to 29 in registered unemployment up to 4 months. While the second group covers young to 25 years of age in the record for more than 6 months, and young to 29 years in the record for more than 12 months. Groups of young people over 25 who are unemployed and more than 4 months of age and less than 12 months of age may report on the technical training on the burden of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia as they are not subject to the provisions of the projects financed by the European Social Fund and this is where the problem arises. There is a gap that is not covered for all young people between 4 and 12 months or even more, not covered by the EU fund, and it seems that the lack of money in the state budget simply does not satisfy their needs. So they, the group that is more than 25 years old, are unemployed for more than 4 months, are not allocated solutions to be able to do professional training. So it looks like I'd say it's ironic in some way, because the advantage is people who are shorter unemployed than those groups that have been on hold for a long time. I therefore appeal to the relevant institutions that young people who are eager to be an expert, acquire expertise and get a job, even if through the measure of vocational training, when they do not have the opportunity to get a permanent job to get a job opportunity and end their agony. In addition to that group of young people, the problem is those who are placed in a group of permanently unemployed young people, i.e. young people who are unemployed for more than 12 months although this training measure for this group can be financed from the European Social Fund and in this group, we do not know for what reasons, solutions are not issued because for the start of this professional training, those who are up to 4 months in the Employment Office always have the advantage. Which really logically simply doesn't hold that thesis. Because you should even have the advantage of the one who's been at the Employment Service for a long time, not the one who's less. So after all this, we come to the conclusion that there is not enough hearing in the competent authorities for young people and their problems. In fact, we all know that young people without experience can find employment very hard to find and that is why they are willing to wait 2, 4, 6, 12 months to get to that vocational training. But there's another illogicality to wait for that time and allow them to work for example. In the area where I come from, I can get a job during the tourist season. If employees lose that right because they have to be at least four months unemployed. So, they accept a job that is not in their profession to incur funds in some way, but I think it is a lack in these measures and that these measures should be upgraded. So I appeal here to the institutions to take all the measures because we all talk today about taking care of young people, how we want to prevent young people from leaving us and maybe exactly the correction of these measures to take a total of young people who are at the Employment Office without these restrictions to allow them to get this professional training. Because believe from my experience that those who have been trained and have gained some experience that most of them have found employment and have not left our homeland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u91	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u92	Dear colleague Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u93	Thank you, Chairman. He'd be looking for a break on behalf of the Live Wall Club for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u94	How many minutes?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u95	15 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u96	15 minutes. You have to say for what?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u97	So because today I am reading on the New World Order page that our Government is, that is, the Secretary-General of NATO thanks Croatia for sending soldiers to the Russian border, and I do not understand how this decision can be made when the Croatian Parliament decides on that decision. And so far, the Croatian Parliament has not decided to send soldiers to the Russian border. And I want to warn the Croatian public about what the puppet government is preparing for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u98	Okay. She's going to take a break now and we're going to continue with a number of replicas on a fellow Souch. I'll meet you back at 11.50. Excuse me, is there anyone else on behalf of the club?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u99	The HDZ Club is looking for a break on the same topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u100	On the same subject, okay. Anyone else looking? No, I don't. SDP club. Anyone else looking for a break? No, I don't. Thank you very much. It's 11:00. 40 o'clock. Dear colleagues and colleagues, please take our seats. We're out of break time, so we've got three clubs. First came the esteemed colleague Pernar in the name of the Living Wall. Here you go. My colleagues and colleagues, please be quiet and take our seats. Please, colleagues and colleagues, take your seats to listen to a colleague of Pernar. After all three clubs take advantage of the possibility of a break, there will be a vote. Here you go, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u102	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to warn that here we are reading in the media these days that Croatia is sending our army to the Russian border and that the NATO Secretary-General is thanking us for that. And I would also like to warn that, as in 1941, our army will be under German command. I think that such a decision is irrational, wrong and insane and that the public does not approve of such a decision in Croatia or in Germany. I personally lived and worked in Germany and when you ask an average German who lived through the horrors of World War II to go to the Russian border again, their answer is a million percent no. Those who spread propaganda, fear and actually shock the public with some god-awful, god-awful Russian danger and that I don't know Russia will attack Europe at any moment I think it's a lie that has nothing to do with common sense. I would also like to refer to the fact that only the Croatian Parliament has a mandate to send soldiers of our country beyond the borders of our country. The Croatian Parliament made no decision about it and shocked me when I read it, it says we promised there sent soldiers and in the style of our soldiers go to that border, and then at the bottom of the text it writes, but as it ends, it will be decided by the Croatian Parliament. However, the decision has already been made. Then what will the Croatian Parliament decide? Why isn't the public wondering what he wants? Why is there no public debate on this issue? We simply serve this topic as healthy for granted, as if it were the most normal fact. And I call on this occasion all MPs who support that decision to take the first uniforms and weapons and to go first to the Russian border and to leave us who are against the war here. Because it's easiest to send, gentlemen of the HDZ you laugh, but you sent people to war while people went to war and while they died for this country, you stole the whole country. Don't laugh, please! And I get the feeling that while you're preparing a new privatisation robbery, that is, a wave of privatisation that you're doing the same thing this time, you're sending these poor people where there's no need for them to be. It is the duty and obligation of our soldiers to protect our country's borders, not other countries. Because our country is Croatia. And I think that the decision to meddle in a conflict that has nothing to do with us and, in fact, which is part of the propaganda of Washington and the Servant Governments in the European Union, is one that I would say to the psychological struggle and war against Russia that really poses no threat to any Baltic country, nor Germany, nor Poland, nor Croatia. So it's all one big brainwashing and washing campaign. And it's actually about Hague propaganda. Our citizens, they're not scared by the Russians, they're terrified by this government that raises taxes like my colleague Maras said on food. The government that raises the price of electricity, the perpetrators who take 600 kuna debt for two kunas. The problem for citizens is that they have to dig through the trash, which they feed on in the soup kitchens, which has more homeless people and beggars on the streets. So this state of ours instead of separating for the poor, we see that our money, taxpayers' money is planned to channel in another direction. So military equipment, military missions, etc. However, so does the government of Oreshkovic and other previous governments serving Washington seem to be the last war this country and this government plan to wage war against poverty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u103	Thank you. The next break was requested by the HDZ club on behalf of which the distinguished representative Miro Kovac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u104	Respect, sir, thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, after we achieved all our strategic goals in terms of democracy, freedom, the rule of law, the release of our areas, and the NATO alliance, we entered the EU. And this membership in the NATO Alliance, the European Union has adequate security, enables Croatia and prosperity, but also carries certain obligations. In the case of NATO alliance we have an obligation to help our allies and as we have heard it is true, we all know who we are on behalf of the Croatian people chosen this Parliament will decide whether we will refer the Croatian army outside the territory of the Republic of Croatia. So Croatia declares its ability to participate in NATO alliance operations and assist its allies within the NATO alliance. The Croatian government will direct if this decision falls within the Croatian government, with the consent of the President of the Republic, it is important for the Croatian public to refer the proposal to the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Parliament, all of us here, then we will decide whether the Croatian Army will be outside the territory of the Republic of Croatia and help its allies. Here it is, I think it's important for the Croatian public. So when you're in one organization, when you're in one club you have certain rights, you have certain obligations that are very important. And what's very important is that we all be sober together, that we be studioy. It is nice to be in the media, to appear, but we have a responsibility to the Croatian public and to Croatian citizens to be studio and correct, and not to be drawn to every time by the populists who impose on all of us in this world dominated by public votes, not only in Croatia but elsewhere. I also want to say that today the president of the Croatian government is in neighbouring BiH, which we also want to attract to the EU and NATO alliance and all other countries that are in the Southeast neighbourhood. It is the best guarantee for Croatia and Europe that we have security and stability. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u105	Thank you very much. And the last club is the SDP club on behalf of which will be spoken by distinguished representative Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Before the fact that I wanted to say two sentences about this subject here. The only one who can send the Croatian army outside our borders is the Croatian Parliament and we warn the ruling not to play, that they do not break the Constitution and send our soldiers east until the Croatian Parliament is manifested about it. We will no longer talk about this in the coming days until the proposal comes, and the irresponsible individuals from the ruling coalition, we see ministers boasting about it, I call on them not to talk about it until the Croatian Parliament makes a decision. It is they who create confusion and alert citizens because we answer to citizens but we also answer to the Croatian Constitution. On the other hand, here we are again witnessing in the Croatian Parliament not to talk about topics burdened by Croatian citizens, to throw sand in the eyes of the Croatian public with topics that are unprepared, laws that are unprepared and that will absolutely not solve anything. It serves as a cover in English cover to push the subject beneath the grain. One of these topics is tax reform. These days, we are witnessing that the tax reform imposed by HDZ and MOST comes down to two sentences to Croatian citizens. One is richer will be even richer, the other is citizens and the poor will be even poorer. Why is that? And you HDZ gentlemen just win 'cause your citizens are in the last place. So now keep throwing. ... And I'm asking you, Mr. Vice President, to restrain your club so I can keep talking. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u107	First, it's not my club, I'm asking everyone to let their colleague Maras talk about the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u108	Because I know that HDZ is not in the interest of opening up the topics that are plagued by our citizens but is in the interest of taking power under the grains, sharing functions and later coming up with FIMI MEDIA and similar things. On that side, I want to warn again here our finance minister said yesterday that 900 thousand citizens don't pay income tax at all. That this tax reform will not make another 500 thousand citizens pay income tax and make these reliefs that they will feel 50, 100 kuna. So a million and a half of our people are almost all employees of the Republic of Croatia and 90%, and the pensioners will of course not feel any benefit from tax reform. And will he feel any damage? Will people pay for more expensive products and services? Well, that's what Minister Maric said yesterday. The bread will be 7% more expensive, the sugar will be 11% more expensive, the milk will be 7% more expensive, the health of the ladies and gentlemen will be 7% more expensive because the drugs will be 7% more expensive. The education in which you all here swear as it is most important to us we will continue with the Minister's proposal but you swear that it is very important to you and that the most important thing will be 7% more expensive because the books collect. Let all our citizens, the parents who will buy the books next year or a year later hear that the books will be 7% more expensive. It's the HDZ and the Most. Let's wonder who this tax reform fits. Suits those who have higher salaries, corresponds to those who are large capital and yes, ladies and gentlemen MOST and HDZ bring a neoliberal economy and a neoliberal tax system to the Republic of Croatia. This benefits Croatian citizens will not have at all or will have very small and limited numbers of people. And that's why I have to talk very clearly about it here. Don't be angry when we're trying to send that message to Croatian citizens. You can't buy one medium that will write on five pages that everything is beautiful and beautiful and thus thinks that everyone thinks it in the Republic of Croatia. When they start going to the store at new prices, you'll find that's not the case. And you can't bring in and don't bring in such tax reform. Let's get rid of our people, not burden them with a bigger VAT, I said milk, sugar, bread, medicines and books, those five things. So which of those five things doesn't matter? Mr. Bull, which of these five things doesn't matter, do you from the Most? Is it important for our citizens that they have cheaper milk, bread, sugar? books. [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u109	Excuse me. Mr. Maras, time, Mr. Maras time, time. I'm begging you, it's over.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u110	In this House, I would like us all to agree together, to discuss really important topics and not to silence MPs when they talk about topics that the sea of Croatian citizens has. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u111	I'd like to thank Agent Maras. I'm stopping the debate right now. Now we're going back to the agenda. Here's your representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u113	President-in-Office of the SDP Club Assembly is seeking a 15-minute break and the reason is very serious. The assassination and murder of the president of the Croatian Journalist Society has been attempted. Since this is neither the first nor the lone case of an attack on journalists, it is constantly happening, we want to show ourselves here and propose some measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u114	I thank the esteemed representative. And also Agent Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u115	The Croatian Democratic Community Club is also looking for a break on the same topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u116	Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u117	The MOST Club is also on the same topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u118	Mr. President for the same reason on behalf of the SDSS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u119	Thank you, Commissioner Pupovci. Representative Batinić. ... Please, please, esteemed fellow MPs and MPs that a break has not been approved, so please wait and be correct with all the other MPs. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u120	Also on behalf of the HNS and HSU club, we are looking for a break on the same subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u121	All right. If there are no other applications, I'll give you a break. I ask esteemed MPs to prepare for an explanation. Thank you. It's a ten-minute stop. It's the 13th 27th hour.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u122	My colleagues and colleagues, although we are a small number of pauses have long expired and we have to start working further, the more we discuss our rights and duties all the time, and there is not much of us in the hall. But we're on our way. The first is on behalf of the SDP club will speak to the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u123	I thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. So the SDP club asked for this break to warn of yesterday's assassination attempt and the murder of Croatian Journalist Society President Sasa Lekovic. He traveled to Novi Sad with his car to a conference there yesterday and today, a journalistic and a few kilometers after crossing the border his car began to act strangely, shake and curve. His integrity saved his life. So, stop the car, call the mechanic who found that two screws on his right wheel of his car were half-drunk to break in the car and so that there was a car accident in which Lekovic would suffer at the wish of whoever was drinking it probably fatally. She saved him from being able to do it. It is not the first time an attempt has been made, that an assassination attempt has been carried out on Sasa Lekovic. And a while ago, he was half-cocked by those screws on the wheel so he wouldn't get hurt. But this isn't a lonely case of assaulting journalists. HINA director Mrs. Branka Valentic receives threats that also mention Lekovic. The threat is received by journalist Sandra Bartolovic. They were also received by the editor of the Forum.hr portal Goran Borkovic. The signatures on those threats are one HOS, a Ustasha snake and, of course, the famous home-ready greeting. I remind you of that campaign by Mrs Mirjana Rakic, then president of the Council for Electronic Media, led by then-President of the Assembly Mr Tepes in company with the famous journalist Bujanac. 6000 for the home of ready-to-be majors were dealt with with by an apart lady, an excellent journalist, a pro for many years. And why is that? And carried her on a gift spoon. And why is that? Because the lady carried out her legal obligation and punished a journalist Z1 and that medium for hate speech, because they invited the citizens of Zagreb to come to the Orthodox church and wait there for the Chetniks. The then chairman of the Media Committee, Mr Mikulić, today did not consider the parliamentary representative appropriate to convene at least a board meeting on the subject, at least a committee meeting. I remind you of the threats made to Mrs. Nina Obuljen when she appeared as a candidate for the culture minister also from this right-wing political spectrum, a well-known media expert, of course. The threats sent to the director of HAVC Hrvoj Hribar. On the 20th of this month, the Croatian Journalist Society sent a letter to the president of the Croatian Parliament and requested a plenary session on the subject. Namely, all these attacks are never and these threatening letters, these threats are never enlightened. In the last year and a half, there have been 90. None of it's enlightened. The police can't figure out who's sending it. That's why the SDP club has two proposals. First we're looking for an emergency session of the Media Committee, plenary on this subject. I call on the chairman of the committee of Mr Mesic to call on her urgently, to invite both representatives and the Croatian Journalist Society to brief us on this. And secondly, we ask that the Minister of the Interior come to this House and have a plenary debate after this session of the board, to hear from the Minister of the Interior why the police are so inefficient when it comes to the threat of journalists. How come 90 cases fail to solve any of them? That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u124	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club, the next one will speak for the esteemed representative Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I must say on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community that we condemn all kinds of violence. We particularly condemn, of course, the violence and threats posed to journalists or other people who act in public space and, in some ways, present their opinions and comments or something like that. There's no choir here. In the programme, both the Government and the Croatian Democratic Community, the great freedom of media expression, the presentation of their opinion, the protection of these rights, and the creation of a framework, a European framework for the free action of the media. Also within the HDZ, we are quite sure that the right way to address the problem is threats or possibly ineffectiveness right through institutions. In fact, we call on all those from either the press circles or from some other circles that in any way receive threats or in any way, whichever way goes by a physical threat to report it immediately. Personally, I'd always go to the police station first and report a possible situation rather than post it on Facebook. I think that's the path we have to solve. We agree absolutely that this will be discussed on the committees in charge. I have to admit, I don't have any further official information on this case except what we had a chance to see on the portals. Surely, colleagues in the MUP in charge of investigations on these issues will be able to tell us more about whether there are investigations, whether investigations have produced some results or not. As far as everything else is concerned, I think we need to discuss this in several aspects. I'm not sure that the right way to discuss these topics is to call a speech break on behalf of the clubs, but an absolutely calm timely analysis, so if we'd like a joint conclusion to the competent ministry to investigate... Only in this way will we contribute to peace and calming tensions on either side and in some way to the final environment and in some ways to enable journalists to act in accordance with the sending of their profession. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u126	Thank you. On behalf of the Most, the next word will be taken by the honourable representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. MOST independent lists are against any violence against journalists and any influence on their writing either at ideological level or in any other way. So from this pay phone I invite all journalists' associations, all individuals to support all journalists who have been attacked, such as the journalist at the Vita show, the food, the green, the pine tree, which is why it's closed on HTV because he was threatened by the discovery in the National Journal because of what's been going on, and we know what happened to the former administration. Anyone who threatens the writing of journalists in this reach of civilization is disastrous, and especially if someone's life is being threatened. That is why I call on all journalists to report any threats immediately, let alone physical threats, and to force them to report to the police, and the Ministry of the Interior is obliged to do so. MOST Independent Lists and I are personally fighting and I fought personally in the Homeland War as well as numerous people for the democratic Republic of Croatia and therefore stop to protect all journalists without any pressure to do their job. The bridge of the Independent Lists is an attitude and we remain there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u128	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDSS Club, the word will be taken by the esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u129	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. If we lose the battle for parliamentaryism and the role of Parliament in our political system, and we who are longer feel it is happening. We appreciate the efforts of individual colleagues and the new Presidency of the Parliament to change that, and we will join that effort. But if we lose the battle to ensure the professional and independent work of journalists and their associations then there is no way that we can preserve and strengthen parliamentaryism in what it should be strong as the representative body of the people, and journalists and their associations as actors in creating the public, informing the public and creating a democratic debate that is necessary as a presumption of parliamentary political debate. President of the Croatian Journalist Society Mr. Saša Lekovic, whom I have known personally since the 1990s. years as a man who promoted independent media back in the middle of his life and who profiled himself as a man who has an international reputation when it comes to a specific type of journalism and education of journalists. According to our knowledge since he became president of the Croatian Journalist Society receives threats, he receives insults and threats on a continuous and organised basis. These threats and insults often have motives in what people think is allowed, and these are ethnic threats and ethnic insults. I don't know how anyone pleads, except I know myself, and it doesn't matter how anyone pleads. As I wish others didn't care how I plead. Well, I don't even know about Sasha Lekovic's case. But if there's a continuous campaign that puts people on one side, it puts them a sticker that can be the basis for this kind of action I agree with everyone who says it's a police job to determine. But if this happens twice, and if the primary and only business of Mr Lekovic is that he is the president of the Croatian Journalist Society and no other who could be the motive for this kind of deadly and dangerous procedure that he is going through, then our task is to warn him. He has the right of fellow Mesic who spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club, it would be normal for us to discuss this on the board without the need for any of us here, on behalf of the clubs, to initiate us. But as the whole thing goes on for a long time, so for several years, and how the journalistic society has warned about that fact and how the public is informed about it and how it is known which groups it is because they leave a clear manuscript and are clearly defined as a group then it is necessary to hear the voice of the MPs here in the Parliament. First of all, colleagues and colleagues, as well as journalists become one of the professions that are among the most endangered, of the professions that are among... There are fewer and fewer contracts indefinitely, more contracts are on a certain level, more and more author's contracts are on the rise, and there are fewer assumptions about the safety and autonomy of journalistic work. [[You don't understand.]] Even if there will be such threats and such actions that threaten life, then of course it is necessary for us to encourage the competent authorities and, in that sense, it is a good initiative of fellow Stazic to convene the Media Committee as soon as possible. We support this initiative and hope that it will remain only for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u130	Thank you. And the last one will be the club of the HNS and HSU in the name of which the distinguished representative Goran Beus Richembergh will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u131	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues on behalf of the HNS and HSU Club, I express my deepest concern about the situation that is escalating and, of course, we express solidarity with all journalists who have been thrown out of various forms of pressure, censorship, threats and concrete threats to their lives. It concerns the fact that the wave of verbal violence, the hate speech has actually become in some way our everyday life when it comes to media space, above all about space on portals and social networks where no single text can be almost passed and that the author or those who positively comment on certain things are not brought down by the entire avalanche of the most dirty, primitive and most dangerous expressions and even threats. It is one thing when as a public person you get from different people something that can be conditionally called harassment, probably like you in your mailboxes, you find such messages behind which little mice, poor people, losers are always anonymously, unsigned, someone projecting their impotence and misery in a way to turn and threaten. But these are serious things. We've heard more than 90 cases where specific people were threatened specifically. Not only does it concern the fact that none of this case has been investigated until the end and that the perpetrators have not been discovered, even though, for example, the method of detecting fingerprints is one of the oldest criminal methods, but also the fact that police officers, when reporting such cases of open threats and intimidation, advise to report harassment. That's inadmissible. We have specific cases and a whole series of events that can't be random. Mr. Lekovic, who almost lost his head, who was almost killed, is one of the people most threatened from the moment he became president of the Croatian Journalist Society. But such threats are unfortunately received by many others. And that is why we must not disobey the call of a professional organisation that has the best insight into the state of affairs that the Croatian Parliament is talking about but also calling on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to react immediately. Why? For a very simple reason, that freedom presses one of the fundamental freedoms in every democratic society, there is no democracy in society if freedom of press, freedom of expression and freedom of the media are threatened. We, as legislators on the one hand, must be aware of this as well as those who send political messages, but also of the government that is in charge of both the Constitution and the laws to provide guarantees to citizens that they are safe and that they live in a secure society, we must react. We do not want to believe that it is a wave of hatred and intolerance and the fact that many are besieged, otherwise in normal circumstances in stable democratic societies, there could be no expression that they are co-citing with political events. We must not encourage anyone who, past verbal power and verbal argument, intends to do any harm to anyone in this country. And every time there's a violence or a serious threat that threatens violence, we're obliged to react. In this context, we join the initiative that the Committee on Information, Information and Media will hold its thematic session as soon as possible so that representatives of the MUP also come to the meeting and report what they have done in 90 cases so far and that we are aware of how functional the state is in the protection of the security of its citizens, especially those whose basic means of working freedom of speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u132	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2626	We'll continue on the agenda now. It is next - Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, first reading, P.Z. No. 7; Proposing the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists pursuant to Articles 172 and 184. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You took the material to the benches. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the committees responsible, the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, and their reports were received at the session. I would now like to ask the applicant's representative to further explain the proposal. Dear colleague Robert Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2627	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. You have before you the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. It is a very short legislative proposal which actually has only one article that changes but in the opinion of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, it is an important first step to supplement the law in a way that, apart from the right of the representatives, we have a standardized and certain obligation of the representatives, which is that on the day on which the representatives are voted in the Croatian Parliament, they must attend and be here in the Croatian Parliament, and otherwise they will reduce the amount of their representative pausal in equivalent to the amount of 3 diaries for official travel in the Republic of Croatia. The proposed law also lists and prescribes cases where the absence of representatives from the Croatian Parliament would be considered justified. The fact is that we have part of irresponsible agents who, in our opinion, are completely irresponsible. Representatives who do not usually attend the meetings of the Croatian Parliament often or almost in general, in no way participate in the plenary session or in committees or voting. We believe that these representatives harm this institution and reduce citizens' confidence in the work of the Croatian Parliament. We believe that regardless of the fact that someone will say that MPs have a free mandate and that they are free to decide whether to participate or not in the work of the Croatian Parliament, we believe that this is not justified and that all MPs have not only the right but also the duty to work, act and vote in the Croatian Parliament. The comparative practice of other countries shows that what we want to prescribe is nothing unusual. In a number of European states, there are financial but other sanctions for MPs who do not attend or do not vote. I will give just a few examples that we have found in various publications relating to the parliaments of other countries. For example, we have established that there are a number of European countries where there are financial sanctions for those MPs who do not attend plenary sessions, do not work on committees of parliament and do not vote on the day of the vote. I cite only some of these countries, France, Germany, Cyprus, Hungary, Luxembourg, Poland, Spain, Belgium. It's those countries we know for sure that prescribe financial sanctions. We're not talking about non-European states. Financial sanctions may be proportionate to the time a representative does not attend parliamentary sessions and may otherwise be defined in the light of his absence. For example, in Poland, according to their regulations, MPs will be sanctioned in a proportionate manner not to attend the meetings of Parliament or the committee in which they are members. Thus, the President of the Polish Parliament's Fair can punish representatives with one-third of the salary for each day for which they do not attend the session during plenary sessions or on the days when they have committee meetings. Therefore, also MPs can be sanctioned if they do not vote in more than one-fifth of the vote that day. In some cases, restrictions on financial sanctions for lawmakers have been promoted, so that, for example, in Belgium, even MPs who do not come at all to the meetings of the Belgian Parliament can be sanctioned but still remains at least 40% of the salary that cannot be taken from them. For example, in France, special sanctions are laid down for non-voting MPs when voting in parliament on individual proposals, and those sanctions may vary in proportion to their participation in the vote. For example, if representatives participate in less than two-thirds of the votes during a certain parliamentary session, they may lose one-third of their parliamentary salary. If they vote less than half of the vote during the parliamentary session, penalties may be doubled. In our proposal, we have chosen a certain version of the German model, which provides for a reduction of the representative's fee in the event that the MP does not come to the session of parliament, does not participate in the work of the working bodies of which he is a member and does not participate in the vote. From these examples, you can see that in different parliaments MPs can be sanctioned for not participating in the work of parliament, working bodies and voting. Especially the moment of the vote. I am talking about this because in the discussions on the two committees that discussed this bill, the question was raised, or the remark or remark that MPs should not be sanctioned in any way if they do not wish to take part in the vote because it is their democratic right. The practice of European parliaments shows that the sanctions are just the most prescribed in cases where MPs do not take part in the vote because it is precisely the situation where they are in the best way actually participating in Parliament's decision-making. This is the situation where, as a rule, Parliament is fully satisfied and when MPs decide on specific legislative proposals or other acts to be decided on. This is a question that we will decide in the public debate and prepare for a second reading a proposal that will have the broadest consensus on this House. At this point we leave the issue open, in which way we sanction, so would we like to prescribe that MPs should only be in parliament on certain days of voting or we would like to ensure that they vote as they do in a number of other parliaments. At this point, we leave that question to the debate and we will decide when the second reading of this law will be on the agenda. This is, in our opinion, just the first step that we would like to build on certain obligations of our representatives to strengthen credibility, the reputation of this House in the eyes of the public. Until now, we have not had this measure, we did not have to by regulation, by law, oblige MPs to at least at a certain time, in certain days be in the Croatian Parliament. I hope that this proposal will be accepted by consensus and that we will find the best solution that will strengthen the faith of the citizens in the Croatian Parliament and that we will prescribe not only quality situations in which we ask that MPs be in this House, but also those that were discussed on committees when it is considered justified to be absent from the session of the Croatian Parliament or vote. In that sense, we expect a constructive debate. As promoters, we are prepared to find the best solutions that will have the support of as many club representatives as possible in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2628	Thank you to my dear fellow Downworlder. We're on our way, we've got 15 lines, so we're on our way. He's the first respected colleague of Peja Grbin's.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2629	I thank Mr. Vice President, obviously I was very quick to lift the tile but probably because my replica was not caused by what Professor Podolnjak said but by what Professor Podolnjak didn't say and I expected him to say by the end of this debate. I'll remind you two weeks ago, exactly two weeks ago, we've been discussing amendments to the Law on Obligations and the rights of state officials. So we've been discussing changes to that famous 6+6, and there's been a lot of noise about it, and there's a measure that's been adopted regarding those 6+6 that's good, going in a very good direction, but the problem of retroactive application of that law has emerged. However, I awaited this debate by Professor Podolnjak that he would explain to me why no amendment to the following article of the Law on the Rights of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament is proposed: "A representative after the termination of the conduct of the agent's duties until the beginning of the pay on another basis or to meet the conditions for a representative's pension or old age pension under the general rules shall have, during 6 months from the day of termination of the term of office, the right to pay the salary paid by a representative or representative of a member of the Croatian Parliament on the same duty and for the next 6 months, the right to 50% of that fee." Dear colleagues and colleagues, two weeks ago we changed the Law on the Obligations and Rights of State officials and told all state officials that we had abolished the right to 6+6 for certain categories. For all of us, and for representatives in the Croatian Parliament, we forgot to do it because we have not changed this law nor now in the section concerning 6+6 we plan to change it. That is why, gentlemen of the Most, the proposed law should be left to the Government of the Republic of Croatia who will be aware of the compliance or inconsistency between certain draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2630	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2631	I thank my colleague Grbino, her intention was, I didn't say that in the opening statement, until the second reading, this will be completed by the provision you're talking about. As you know, I haven't been in this House for the first two weeks, I haven't affected the appearance of this bill. The fact is that that Law amending the Law on the Rights and Obligations of Officials has been incorporated into a provision that was to be incorporated into this law that we have today in the debate. But unfortunately, that's the problem when you have two laws that you have to change parallelly to regulate the same situation. This is a catastrophic situation that we have inherited that you have two laws for state officials, one general and another special for MPs. It's a nomotechnically terrible situation and every time we have to regulate something as far as we're concerned, we have to regulate it in two laws. It's bad, it needs to be changed, we don't bear responsibility for it, but you're right, it needs to be re-additioned in this law now and it's not done, it's going to be until the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2632	Thank you very much. Second replica, dear colleague Giovanni Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2633	Here, dear Mr. Podolnjak, my intervention is heading towards a concrete move that we are definitely all moving away from politics together and we are starting to deal with serious politics. You said it was a first important step through this bill, which is why I am commenting on this punishment through this bill if Parliament's representatives want to discipline us and call for responsibility and turn this debate club Assembly into the most serious and responsible most representative body then absolutely fully and I support it. I support it because we need to move on, but in order for us to have the right to ask others to do so. So I would go with one initiative that I would extend through other measures, but also through other legal solutions. Your representative is head of the Justice Department. There are a lot of calls for a lack of functioning of the judiciary, so I suggest four concrete things. (a) that the Minister of Justice creates conditions for judges, (b) that the Minister of Justice imposes by means of regulations the standards of monthly norms for each judge, (c) unless the judge meets the monthly norms to feel the deduction on his personal income, (d) if after three fail to meet the monthly standard in the course of work he has and can be fired. Furthermore, what you know very well about the subject, until 2009, the City's Headship is functioning. At the local level, the City's headship compared to the state level is one and the same, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and as once the City's headship. I suggest we go both with the initiative towards both the government and all the media houses, especially television, that all meetings of the government are publicly transmitted. Why would I suggest that? Because the government has an obligation and citizens have the right to know what the government is doing, how it works, what conditions are in charge, under which conditions state property is sold, how measures and regulations will affect their rights, obligations and living conditions of citizens. I think that would be one contribution to the public, transparency and accountability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2634	My colleague Sponza's time is up, that's one thing, and the other thing is you're a little off the subject we're talking about today, so please don't do it anymore. Here's your esteemed colleague, Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2635	In fact, you have already said the essence of the presentation of fellow MPs, I hope they will hear you in the government and the Minister of Justice but this did not refer to a concrete bill. We do not standardize the work of MPs in terms of how many times they will report for the word, how many times they will replicate and so on. So there's only one measure here that applies to the presence of MPs on the day of the vote, that's the only thing that we here prescribe by this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2636	Thank you. Third replica, distinguished colleague Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2637	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Podolnjak and Parliament Speaker Mr Petrov have personally chosen to be president of the parliament in the negotiations during the formation of the government and before that. He explained this by guaranteeing that certain legal proposals would come on the agenda. If I were to make a joke right now, he'd actually ordered that a legal proposal to come into the debate must come through a relationship. What we have to do is make sure we don't get any legal proposals. I think the problem with this bill is not intensities, not in the principles that you've explained here, more in content. In fact, you say this raises the credibility and reputation of this home. In such an explanation of the law, the protection of the dignity of representatives in the Croatian Parliament also states. You see through these years as far as I've been here I've noticed that it's always the main remark of the opposition, and tomorrow it'll be about mine to you for whatever you're telling me from the opposition, you'll come Friday, you'll raise your hands and vote it. And in fact, by this law, we're actually ordering that there's enough to come here on Friday, raise your hand, and that's how it's going to be worth the work of the MPs. I applied for a hearing today, so now in this short time, I can't explain everything that I'm going to offer concrete solutions. But what I'm sure is the work of the MPs and you've just said it's hard to norm, it's hard to bring some general parameters that can then be measured. But my opinion is even like this, so that MP who didn't take part in the debate in any way, at his club, was not present here during the debate, so in my opinion, that man shouldn't vote for the law because he has no idea. But that, of course, is not possible, and between these two extremes should find some right measure to evaluate the work of each representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2638	Thank you. And the answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2639	Thank you, dear colleague. We have opened a debate on this subject, perhaps you will on behalf of the club and individually be for stricter sanctions and as you say yourself, perhaps you should in some way standardise quality not only participation, the presence of representatives, but also participation in the work of working bodies and other ways. It is open in this public debate that we will have here and between the two readings and we are open to proposals that can go further and wider than our original proposal. And I haven't been in this house as long as you have, but I remember in a past session that was relatively short that there was a situation when you voted on Friday, when you proposed amendments and I voted for your amendments, and not only me but most of the representatives of the Independent List Club on your general surprise, but such situations were. And they have shown that we are ready to support the things that are of quality, which you have proposed in certain laws and to your surprise we have voted in favour. And we don't consider it anything special and such situations can also be in this term of office why not. Any quality suggestion believe me, we'll back it up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2640	Thank you. The next replica is distinguished colleague Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2641	I suggest you extend this commendable proposal in two directions. In fact, we discussed the MOST's proposal yesterday, and that most of the debates were not at all in this assembly to listen to the debate. So I suggest you punish those who propose laws without them here. When they were here in those rare moments, they must have raised a plate ten times to punish them, seeking the punishment of every one of those MPs who dared to say that Minister Dobrović, MOST's minister advocated the closure of the Sisak refinery. Well, I suggest you punish the MPs not only when they come to the vote, but also when they vote against the interests of the Most, or when they mention any MOST minister who suggests proposals, he makes proposals against Croatian interests. The sentence could range from cash to long-term prison, decided by Bozo Petrov, a statement certified by a public notary.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2642	Thank you very much. Before the reply to the replica goes, we have a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Honorable colleague of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2643	Infringement of Rules of Procedure under Article 232. So just like my colleague Stazic kept on speaking out of the question with intent yesterday, I deliberately violated the Rules of Procedure because you chairmans did not respond adequately.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2644	It's your assessment that I haven't responded adequately, I think I have. You can always write an objection to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. And even now, I don't think the Rules of Procedure has been hurt because it can't be surgically precise on the subject alone. There are parabolas, there are links and I, as chairman, will not give you any damage to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. ... Thank you very much. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Then we move on to the next line, that's an esteemed colleague, Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2645	Mr. Vice President, looking at your reaction, I can't wait for these other two years when you'll be president. Because I think you run a more tolerated Parliament than the President of the Parliament. As far as Mr. Dolnjak's argument is concerned, it is completely contrary to the content of the law that is proposed. So if they'd just listened to the explanation, they'd think the law says something different than what it says. So, you were talking about protecting Parliament's integrity, about increasing the reputation of citizens, but it wasn't the Parliament's problem that there were no people at the vote. So in Parliament's 7th session, we've never had a problem with the quorum at the vote. So the credibility and integrity of the Parliament was not greater in the eyes of the citizens. So, if the proposal were to sanction MPs for not coming to the boards, due to their failure to attend the sessions, then due to their failure to arrive in the day, then only the third because of their failure to vote might hold water in some way. Since you have prescribed sanctions for, have proposed to impose sanctions for non-voting, as well as for non-voting, I would nevertheless remind you of Article 76(2). The constitution that says the MP cannot be called to criminal responsibility, detained or punished for the express opinion and vote in the Croatian Parliament. So, is the lack of a vote showing a political stance by obstructing the quorum by voting, I think it fits. So what my colleague Stazic suggested might not be as simple as that, so I suggest a different option. It is not forbidden to reward voters for voting, so that one who votes for the government's proposal does not get two diaries, one who is abstention should get one, one who is against not getting one. That might be a compromise on what Mr. Stazic said.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2646	That's an interesting suggestion. We'll consider it. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2647	Thank you, dear colleague Bauk. I made it clear on behalf of the club that what we're proposing is only the first step. We would like this law to look better in terms of establishing additional sanctions that we would agree on with individual clubs. So, I was deliberately talking about the practice of certain European countries where you see that there is a sanction of the absence of representatives at plenary sessions, working-body sessions and voting. So three different elements, and for each day, that the fines of the MPs even if the proportion of days per month of the session do not come to the sessions. So it is not a practice, but it is prescribed in certain European countries for their parliamentarians. So it's no sacrilege. And don't confuse the parliamentary institute of irresponsibility with the fact that you're going to vote at the Parliament session, it has nothing to do with each other. No one will punish you whether you voted in favour or against any legal proposal or any other decision. In any case, if you wish to propose additional measures of financial sanctions for MPs we will discuss this until the second reading and during the second reading you can also submit more quality amendments in that second reading. Believe me, we'll be prone to that. And then don't be surprised if such an amendment of yours that you'd like to further sanction MPs might pass. So here's a public invitation to propose additional financial sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2648	Next replica, distinguished colleague Ivan Vilibor Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2649	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's colleague Podolnjak, reading your bill, welcoming the natural intensity I came to the article 1 where he stands. Article 6(1) adds new items which read, among other things, the absence of representatives from the vote in the Croatian Parliament due to diseases, deaths, work in the club of representatives, work in the bodies of the Croatian Parliament, official travels, etc. I think this is the law about how unprovoked the day is here. Why? For working in a club of MPs. Namely, it's a universal excuse. Where have you been? I worked at the club. What were you doing? We don't know. So, who's gonna check if someone actually drinks coffee at the club or actually works for the club? It's going to go in that direction if it goes through in this form or it's going to be given, so it's not working for the club at all on Fridays, it's going to be done for some other days. Therefore, I find this inconclusive. Anyone who won't be voting on Fridays will say I worked at the club. Okay. You worked, there's no punishment. That's it. Therefore, if this form remains, we will give amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2650	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2651	Dear colleague Sincic, I must say that I agree with your suggestion and that for another reading, we will drastically change this formulation. And I personally agree with you that working at a club representative on Friday when the vote makes no sense. So I would personally support what you said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2652	Replica number 7. Dear colleague Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2653	Dear colleague Podolnjak, I agree with you that the obligation of all 151 MPs is to be there and to vote and to decide with our vote what is being made, on what is being discussed. But in the New Testament there is one sentence of Jesus, let him cast the stone first, which is of you without sin. I would agree with my colleagues from the opposition in that section when he mentions yesterday's session, because it's inadmissible, and I was already in one session of the Parliament, that there are no representatives of the legislators of some law here during the debate, at least one. Yesterday we had more situations that weren't like that. Then I can tell you about another example. Yesterday's Assembly delegation, which paid tribute to the Hood Cave, was united, that the rest of us only learned much later, so some managed to self-organize through their clubs. And that's inadmissible. And there needs to be an example of those who are looking for some kind of sanctions for someone else. But when that pulsism that we've been so amazed on all sides these past two weeks, we listen and we look at each other in Facebook, and I don't know where this Parliament is degraded. The greatest sanction for me as a parliamentary representative is the choice and decision of my citizens and so on by all of us here. And that way we need to think, and the sanctions we can give ourselves when we speak here for this speaker is our responsibility and our word. I agree that on Fridays when we vote, we must all be here.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2654	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2655	Dear colleague, if at some point yesterday there was no representative of the MostA as proposing a legal proposal, my apology. I will be here today as one who will answer to all yours on behalf of the promoter. In a way, you said that there was no need to sanction MPs, because they are responsible for the citizens who choose them. In principle, I could agree with you if citizens really chose you and if their choice decision was the most important choice for each of us. However, according to our Electoral Law, it is still not so that citizens play a crucial role in selecting each individual MP, it would be only if their preferred votes decided on each of us's choices. Still for most of the MPs who are primarily credited for their choice are on the fact that they are on a certain number of candidate lists, not whether they received the highest number of preferential votes for which they entered this House. But we believe that by adopting our second legislative proposal on three preferential votes, we will be much closer to the fact that we want citizens' votes in the elections to be the most important factor to decide on the election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2656	Thank you, too. The next replica is distinguished counterpart Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2657	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I don't mind, in principle, my colleague Podolnjak, but as life writes stories, so does the law. I believe that this initiative is yours being offered by a past term where you and your partners don't know how many times you couldn't agree on a quorum or maybe it was a reason but certainly this initiative is nice to me. Unfortunately, the content of the bill that you put in the procedure is more like an initiative than a bill. So here I will start, first and foremost big doubts about it, fellow Bauk mentioned the Constitution and certain articles of the Constitution, I would just remind you of one thing, so in the Republic each of us can choose and be chosen. It's not mandatory to go to the polls. Secondly, Article 72 of the fine, the third term of the parliamentary representative is optional. Fourthly, our Rules of Procedure, Part Three - General Rights and responsibilities of the MPs, what you have proposed here, could and would be far away, let's say more correct versus President-in-Office's dignity to write in the Rules of Procedure. One small part on the day of the vote to be in the Croatian Parliament. Okay, why not every day? That's the question. Furthermore, the president of the parliament will decide what lack is justified, which is not missing. Let us preserve the dignity of the President of the Croatian Parliament. Think about the committees. Is it any committee that regulates these questions whether it is the committee that should be doing it? Furthermore, official travel for the purpose of party activities. So what do we ban the parties in the Republic of Croatia? It's a constitutional category. Can we separate the work within the party with membership, with sympathisers, with voters, especially those who mentioned the preferential voice to be separated from the work of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2658	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2659	Dear fellow Members, we will take into account any observations that you will make and your lips at the plenary session and the letters that you will be delivering later on in the final draft of the law. But one thing we must say clearly, I have listed to you deliberately certain European states, democratic states that regulate the financial sanctioning of representatives in certain situations. I believe that you will agree with me that there is a free parliamentary mandate in all these countries, which is today common in all democratic states, that there is a parliamentary institute of irresponsibility and that is the fact. So the immunity of a representative who speaks in Parliament. And that all these facts are present in other European countries and in other European parliaments, yet they financially punish their representatives for not attending plenary sessions, for not attending a session of working bodies, for not voting. So we do not consider what we are proposing against the Constitution, contrary to modern parliamentaryism and democratic practice as it exists in other European parliaments. So exactly the examples that I've set say that we can regulate it the same way, and we could be stricter if you were to agree with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2660	Thank you. Replica number nine, dear colleague Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2661	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In your opening presentation, you said that you wanted to restore the dignity of the Croatian Parliament and increase the confidence of Croatian citizens in the Croatian Parliament and that when we read the legislative proposal, we see that what you think would contribute most to that, that is, the only proposal that we have on the benches today is that we punish parliamentary representatives when they do not come on Fridays for voting. If we listen to our citizens who live around us, who communicate with us, we can often see that they are angry with us. One of the reasons why they're angry is because we don't come to work and they think we're often too paid... That we don't come to work every day not just on Fridays. [[You don't understand.]] However, the second level our fellow citizens hold against us is the content and level of the debates we have in the Croatian Parliament. And second, not only do we vote on Fridays in Parliament or not but also the way and what we vote for. So I think, unfortunately, by this proposal of the law, that MPs in the Croatian Parliament will only be punished if they do not come to the vote on Fridays, you will actually succeed as the ruling majority in disciplining your MPs to avoid jeopardising the quorum as we have witnessed in the past seven months and that you will easily adopt laws that come to the Croatian Parliament, but we will not return the dignity to the Croatian Parliament and we will not restore the voter's trust in MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2662	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2663	I thank my esteemed colleague. I must say again that we do not consider this brief provision to be the Holy Scriptures, something that is the final text of which we do not give up. We want in every way to make this text more quality and in a way that we can improve it in this direction that you said. If you feel that it is not enough just to sanction the failure of MPs on Fridays when they are voted, then that one out of three days when we have plenary sessions than it is necessary to regulate it better in a way that includes both working bodies and in some other way, we are open to it. I said we need to find a broader consensus in this House, if it goes in the direction that it is necessary to spread the spectrum of options that are available to us for financial sanctioning MPs and that it is not only Friday and the day when it is voted, why not. Perhaps this debate today which seems to me to be going in that direction on your part, so that you might also want a stricter sanctioning the work of MPs. Everything you've said so far has just gone that way, that it's not enough on Fridays only to prescribe that obligation. I can see you may not think that way, but you all said how much I listened that such sanctions should actually be prescribed for other forms of work of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. So such sanctions are prescribed in other parliaments, so we said for all plenary sessions, for working in working bodies where a single representative is also a member in voting, we cited this for reasons to see which options exist comparatively and to find the best solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2664	Thank you very much. The 10th replica of the esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2665	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Podolnjak, it is nice that you have studied what practice is in other European parliaments and that you have seen that sanctions exist, sanctions exist in a much wider range than you have suggested here, so why didn't you simply try to level them with, say, France or Poland that you mentioned? You've been presenting yourself as a reform party all along, and as much as you've presented these amendments to the law as a guarantee, so you've used a very strong term, but we're hearing again about a small step in the right direction that the opposition will then work out to make it look like something. So we can essentially conclude that these guarantees of yours are turning into some kind of improvisation to justify the public why they went into coalition with HDZ. Also, if you have already compared practice in European countries, it would not be bad if you compared the practice in Croatia because there are some sanctions and for people who are employed in state institutions and state institutions and make sure that these sanctions are far more stringent than any European Parliament. Namely, you can stay not only without pay but you can get fired, these people come to work daily, very responsible, very honorably doing their job, and here you are therefore proposed that only at a certain time a parliamentary representative does not have to be in his workplace, and in other days he may be left behind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2666	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2667	Thank you. Dear fellow Members, we certainly expect you to have a constructive proposal, so that this initiative, as well as other representatives, can be improved more normally by defining not only all the situations in which we expect to precisely formulate when it can follow a certain penalty for non-working of MPs and that it is normatively better quality than it is now defined here in this proposed legal text. So, please, if you feel that you need to do better normatively, please submit your proposal and we will install it in the final text of the bill, if it is of quality and if it corresponds to the purpose, the aim of the Proposer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2668	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Sauch.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2669	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You weren't on board, you were sick, but it doesn't prevent you from consulting today with your colleagues on board. So, your colleague Simic who was then represented this law has said and there is a record of it, that MOST is important that we appear only in the Croatian Parliament on Friday, not sitting here, to keep the quorum. Why did he say that? Because we have argued and it is quite successful that not participating in the opposition's vote is a legitimate form of parliamentary struggle and that it is our right, and that it is the most normal way for us as an opposition i.e. The only way to prevent us as an opposition from passing some law that we disagree with. I don't know if you understand the relationship between position and opposition, so you're the majority, we're the minority, we can't overrun you. However, if there are not enough MPs in the Assembly, which is your job, your responsibility is not ours. We can get out of the assembly and disable the vote. You remember for sure how it worked in the last council meeting when you and your HDZ colleagues were struggling to collect the quorum. And then, on several occasions, we did what our voters expected us to do, which is to prevent some of the laws that we deeply thought were harmful. You and another thing that you obviously don't understand, and for a year you've been there, it's not just sitting in these benches and definitely not on Fridays. Fridays, i.e. Coming to the vote is not the work of colleagues, you should know that, you're a professor at law school, it's an expression of political will. So you can vote for, against, abstention or not appear at all at the vote. So there's no theoretical chance that we're holding your quorum. That's your job.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2670	The reply to the replica is the esteemed colleague of the Podločnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2671	I can't talk about what my colleague Simic said, I can talk about the legal provision that is now in the proposal and it stands like this. The absence of representatives from the vote in the Croatian Parliament, so by the proposed provision, it is clear what is meant. Secondly, you can speak freely of your democratic right not to participate in the vote and not to hold the quorum to the ruling majority as you have said. I have merely cited examples of European countries where it is sanctioned not to vote with MPs as completely legitimate and normable in certain regulations that have individual European states. And in the end, I have to say that I don't know why you said that your voters were honoring that fact that you were leaving the vote, that you were breaking the quorum and acting politically. I'd say your voters didn't approve of you and that's why you're still in the opposition today as you were in your previous term, obviously you weren't doing well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2672	Thank you, too. Next up, dear colleague Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2673	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I support the adoption of this law whose intention and purpose I would say an increase in the dignity of the Croatian Parliament, strengthening the responsibility of our parliamentary representatives towards the voters who chose us. Is this the best solution, I am not sure and therefore I believe that until the second reading we will improve this bill with a number of quality remarks we have heard on the board and through already presented replicas. I would suggest that we wait until the second reading for the announcement, that is, the adoption of an ethical code announced by the President of the Parliament at the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament. It would be good to bring this ethical code and not only bring it in, but to try to bring it by consensus and then eventually break that code of ethics and all that we heard during this debate and on the committees themselves, try to get it into the final draft of the law so that, as you said yourself, you tried to bring consensus. I must say that I agree with the many remarks we have heard and that perhaps until the end do not indicate that the bill itself is not well designed until the end, that it comes probably through the possibility of improving and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament, so that it has the opportunity to improve this bill. By the way, I agree with that consequence that the written book has a thousand observations and is not written one, because it is simply not written. That's how I deal with this bill. I support its adoption, it should have started and through the debate, through remarks we try to make it the way to really bring it by consensus. Because there's no reason and no one here in this assembly cares, it's not, and it's important that we bring this law really by consensus.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2674	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2675	Very briefly, the answer to a respected colleague. We agree with you that it is necessary to adopt the Ethics Code of Representatives, and I believe that we will soon do so together in agreement with all the clubs of MPs. But as a rule, the code of ethics doesn't sanction financial agents, so that's a different kind of act. So we're going to stay and move forward with the options to regulate this issue by law, but we're going to see what time sequence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2676	Thank you. The next replica is distinguished colleague Zeljko Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2677	Thank you, Mr. President. So I have to call this one of the 7 populist pamphlets of the MOST party, and that is the fact that those who advocate such solutions do not themselves attend their legal proposals proposed by the Parliament. So yesterday they appointed four people to participate in the work of this distinguished House, but they don't care what we have to say about it, and then none of them participates in the great majority of yesterday's debate. Whether these sanctions or penalties, as you call them, want to raise the quality of work then you are on the wrong track because the quality of work will not rise because there is no difference between not coming and not participating in these discussions and you will not sanction it. Your legal proposals that you have put under the name of the guarantee and which you have put into the work of this Assembly actually offend us who want to work seriously in the Croatian Parliament. You're making ideas for a solution so you say great for every sound reasonable criticism, here you can help us out a little bit, and you'll work us out, and we'll be smarter next time. So you have the opportunity to put certain legal proposals on the agenda and are similar in the following example, it's like if I wanted to reduce the number of days spent on public sector staff compared to the private sector, so I would suggest amending pension insurance laws. So that's where the topic develops, the goal is good, justifiable, so we're going to set a smaller or higher pension, but what's the goal? You completely fulate all the legal solutions, take us 150 days of work, and you want us to be here on Friday because you'd be punishing, and we'd be punishing you see from these resistors that you took from the police and the judiciary. I would punish you populistly and set you a salary of 9 999 kuna and then they would be credible and then we could seek the punishment of anyone in this Croatian home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2678	Answer to the replica of my colleague Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2679	Thank you. My dear colleague, first of all, let me say that yesterday was an unfortunate circumstance due to a memorial in Tezno attended by many MPs. Because of this situation which was extremely important, there was a situation that at a certain point there were no legislators here. And I would suggest here now publicly when such a situation happens in the future that some important event is a protocolal, symbolic event where MPs wish to attend, that at that moment they should either interrupt the afternoon session or another day make up for it in order to enable all the representatives who want to do so and the representatives of other clubs who may not have been informed or did not know from their leaders that they could apply for the memorial and the future does not happen to us. I suggest that the Croatian Parliament's presidency also takes account of this, that in such situations, as many representatives as possible are allowed to attend them without then coming to a situation where you have rightly pointed out that there are no legislators, so one of the representatives from the club who will defend this law and respond to the comments of the MPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2680	Before I give the next line, I agree with you, dear colleague Podolnjak, that such matters should be discussed by the presidency and would probably be avoided then and this situation discussed by my colleague Misic. So for this time I can, I can express my regret about what happened, and I think that through one memo I should have reported to all the representatives' clubs that there was an organized road. This time it seems to be just some, only some of them knew, some organized themselves then as a club and my apology if they can on behalf of the Croatian Parliament Presidency it will not happen again. We're continuing the debate. Next, with replicas, is the next distinguished colleague, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2681	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Podolnjak, if you can imagine the situation in an average Croatian elementary school or high school class in which a class teacher is a victim of family violence, 50% of teachers must work in the joint to close with the end, and students have poor grades of over 45%. And then the school director or some other enthusiast remembers that wearing a corner would necessarily be the solution to the situation in the class. And that's about what your bill looks like, approximately like. With all due respect for basic intensity, it is to improve the work of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. That we all know should be mended especially by those of us who have been here for a long time. But in this way, the results won't be quite as certain as there were no registrations on the way into the building, on the way in here to the hall and leaving the hall. What's the score? Nothing, nothing. Therefore, I have no problem with you imposing financial sanctions, I have no problem introducing any sanctions. So your intensity is basically good but the way is bad. And I'm surprised at you who should understand that. It's bad because you don't see that it can't bring results and on the other hand it's bad because you're restricting the fundamental constitutional powers of the representatives. Whether I'm going to be on Fridays at the vote or I'm going to stand in front of the Parliament with people protesting against the law that's on the agenda and who should vote on my parliamentary matter and not yours. And you can't limit that to anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2682	Answer to the replica of my colleague Podolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2683	I must stress again because it seems to me that none of you rephrase colleagues wanted to hear what I said in the opening statement, which is that our proposal for financial sanctions does not drop a bit of modern democratic practice in some of the European states' parliaments that I have indicated. Or you will find that there is a democratic, non-democratic authoritarian practice in all these parliaments to force MPs to come to the vote and deny them the democratic right to, for example, the opposition MPs not to come to the vote because they use some of their right of free parliamentary mandate. All the states I've listed just emphasized that moment are not only not coming to the sessions but not voting right now. So, if this is normised and prescribed in all the countries that I have cited as being able to consider it undemocratic, unconstitutional, violation of democratic law and a free parliamentary mandate or immunity of MPs. Not according to us at the club of independent lists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2684	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure of the Honorable Representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2685	Mr. Vice President, our Rules of Procedure make it clear that an MP should not be offended, should not be offended in any way. And you, Mr. Dolnik, insult our common sense. If not all of them mine. Tell us what countries these are and what are the conditions in which the MPs work? Do they have a table on which to prepare the debate? [[Intruder Jandroković: Dear colleague, please.]] Do they have a place where they can do their job? [[Intruder Jandroković: I am asking you, dear colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2686	Comrade Pupovac, this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You hurt the Rules of Procedure and I give you a warning. And the last replica of the esteemed colleague Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2687	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Podolnjak, you said in your debate that voters do not decide to elect MPs in the Parliament, but party leaders who define party lists. But you forgot that people register as independent candidates and get elected, so your party MOST Independent Lists came to light the day because people as independent candidates won. So you have to take the whole context. On the other hand, you cannot take away the party's right to have their party bodies select candidates to list, whether party members choose their candidates before the election in the party. The other thing that some of the other states have been punishing MPs doesn't mean it's no argument, and it doesn't mean that we have to bring it in. A lot of them don't have that kind of solution anymore. There are five ways to vote. You want to take two away from us. It's one vote for, vote against, be abstention but also be in the hall, not be part of the vote, but you're part of the quorum. Or get out of the hall and be no part of the quorum. All legitimate ways of expressing political views are and must not be taken away from the representative, that is, punishing him for making his views known to you, as our Constitution has told you. It would be much better not to pass anti-constitutional laws, but to establish good practices and codes of conduct of MPs, put on the conscience of a representative, put on his ethnic conscience as he behaves. And then there are the voters he has political responsibility for and who can punish him for his behavior. And not to say that there is also a party that he, if he ignores in his work, can also take certain activities towards him. Is the agent working or not? The other day, a former HDZ representative, Andrija Hebrang, told us that since there was no representative of the table and chair in the Assembly, there was no computer that he wrote his speeches in the car in the parking lot Thank you very much. [[/Upadica Jandroković: Dear colleague Klisovic, I am sorry. Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2688	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished colleague Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2689	Dear fellow MP, we at the club MOST of Independent Lists believe our proposal is not contrary to the Constitution. If one day the law we vote is on the assessment of constitutionality, we will determine that it is fully in accordance with the Constitution and that we do not violate any right of you as an agent if we are to prescribe certain financial sanctions and obligations of the MPs whether with the presence, whether with a vote or in some other way participation in Parliament's work. But don't say in advance that something we suggest is against the Constitution. What we suggest is common in a number of other countries. You can find in the various manuals of the Interparliamentary Union and we have a certain delegation to the Interparliamentary Union. It is therefore easy to see that other parliaments also use the same normative sanctions for their representatives. I suppose we all have democratic constitutions in which we prescribe a free parliamentary mandate, in which we prescribe immunity from the MPs. However, they are financially punished somewhere even drastically if they do not participate, do not work or object to parliament in the days of parliamentary meetings and the work of the working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2690	This ended with the replicas of the applicant's opening statement. Now, if they wanted to, they could contact the board presidents, the committee's reporters. We have two committees. For the legislation, counterpart Drazen Bosnjakovic will not. And counterpart Miroslav Simic, he is not on behalf of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. So I'm opening up the debate. And the first one came to the debate was the SDP Representatives' Club, on whose behalf the distinguished counterpart Tomislav Saucha will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2691	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, firstly to point out that the SDP has absolutely nothing against work and we have nothing against any measures that would contribute to increasing the reputation of parliamentarians and parliament as institutions. We are fully aware of colleagues and colleagues that the view of the empty Assembly Hall is ugly and irritated and we are also aware of the bad image that we as Assembly representatives have in public. And we're all a little guilty of that. And this law should go in the direction of raising dignity. This way you don't get high. But today, however, we are actually discussing everything else here, and that is how we experience what the work of a parliamentary representative is. So obviously that's where we fundamentally differ. So, is the work of a parliamentary representative just sitting in these red chairs, which is obviously the only criterion for colleagues from MOST. If so, it is one of the simplest jobs in Croatia, the most overpaid. We need a little bit of a hot flash, a good bubble, a little patience, preferably if you're not a smoker, and you're going to have a very easy day sitting there from half 10 to some seven, eight until your colleagues from the Living Wall finish their discussions. In the SDP, we believe that work, obviously unlike you colleagues from MOST, is not just sitting in these red chairs, that there are other jobs done by parliamentary representatives who are slightly less visible, but are no less important. Is the job of a parliamentary representative equal to writing bill proposals, amendments, studying material, writing parliamentary questions, of course, is that. And I think you'll agree with that. But that part of the job doesn't take place in the assembly, that part of the job takes place in the offices. So he's not that visible. If we had offices, that's all. offices. Most of us don't have a desk or a chair here, let alone an office. Is it the job of a representative to work in the field with citizens in our election units who chose us, to be among them, to hear their ideas, to be their voice in the Parliament? It is. I think it's one of the basics of our assignments. And it's also not happening here in this assembly, it's happening in the field. You know, field activities are very difficult to plan for MOST colleagues, and that's what you'll see time is going to be moving away and you're going to have a campaign for local elections. But I'm talking about this fieldwork that, let's say, is out of our hands because something's happening. We as agents want to go to the field, maybe hold the press, hear what people have to say. For example, colleagues in the Living Wall, what can they know when they're going to be given some kind of action that they'd like to prevent, how can we forbid it from being sanctioned by them? Well, that's their right. From this law, a colleague and a colleague can see all of Most's unbelief. This is one of the seven basic laws negotiated by the MOST and HDZ colleagues for a full month. This depended on the fate of the Government of the Republic of Croatia itself and the fate of our country. And of that law which so announced would punish every slightest failure, not getting to the Parliament, not getting to work, what's left? The rest is very little and the rest is very bad. Where did that first proposal go? Knowing my colleagues from MOST, I believe this wasn't the original proposal. He's probably staying somewhere for a match with an old political partner. There's cheap pulsism and demagogy left. Look, what's left of this law that's bad and don't put a ball on us now because your HDZ colleagues won't vote your original version, right, so now you're switching a ball to us and you say here when you have so many good ideas if you want to punish us, give us your hands and we'll vote it out. You colleagues are the position, you see how big it is, it starts from here and ends there. It's your responsibility. You want to pass laws? Go ahead. What's left is pure demagogy. You know why? Because when a man has no better ideas then it's best to think of such demagogue moves that are so popular in public. Let's discipline those who usually have such a bad perception in public. Because this law goes from assuming that all MPs are supposed to be except for colleagues from MOST because they're the best, the smartest and the most moral, but we're all the rest of us unemployed. And only by fines can we be forced into these benches. It's always popular with citizens and that's where you catch cheap political demagogue points. Instead of working with constructive improvements on the reputation of the Assembly for which MOST has assumed responsibility, you have the President of the Parliament, you are going with a law like this that sends such an ugly message about your colleagues. That is all that remains in the law, therefore, of all these announcements of pompous and pretentious, remains only a requirement for Friday's opposition to come to the Parliament and to hold the quorum to the ruling. My colleagues and colleagues Mr. Podolnjak, a colleague of the Podolnjak said it was work. It's not work, it's expression of political will. It's just like voting. That's what I just told you. It's kind of a parliamentary struggle. It's the only way we as an opposition can prevent some law from being passed and not working. Apparently, my colleague Podolnjak doesn't understand what it's all about. And that's the slowest thing we've ever done. And we won't accept it no matter what sanctions you impose. You can also introduce physical punishment as far as we're concerned, and I think it might be this close to your heart and heart, but we won't agree to that. So, I'm not saying we're never coming here on Fridays and we're not voting. That would be pretty stupid, we're the opposition and we want our opinions and voices to be heard. But when we estimate it will bring down some bad law we won't come. You remember, there were other traumas from the past term, when we didn't once bring down your quorum in this House. So you whine to go in there and pass the laws. You couldn't get together. And that's when we succeeded in our purpose. And the way we went to the polls after that, so look, I'm not sure that's exactly what voters weren't worth. I was going to say one thing, but apparently my colleague the Downhill is actually, I don't really know if I got that argument or not. Because my colleague Simic, and I don't know who else was with us on that committee since the MOST colleagues were pretty messy on those boards. On the Third Tribute Legislative Committee, we were able to discuss this law because the first two times did not appear to be the gentlemen who teach us lessons today. At that third attempt, Col. Simic told us no, no, you got it wrong we think it is the right position not to vote, we just want you to come into this building. He literally said that. I'm sorry they didn't record those discussions. I'm sorry there's no phonogram from that session, he said that. I was commenting on it then, so it's not like it's important that we come to the Assembly as a building. So we're not gonna be that cynical, are we? He said you could be in the halls, just be in the Parliament. So, form without content. But here's my colleague, Podolnjak, back from sick leave, and I wish him I hope he's recovered, wish him all the best, but suddenly he's changed his attitude drastically again. Let's just say I'm prepared for a debate and now I have to change it. And you can't make a deal. A form without any content dear to my colleagues. In this law, not just a little bit I didn't get executed, just a little bit, it's just too important to just fly through it. Look, it's a little bit of a law, but obviously there are a little bit less and a little more serious changes to the law for you MOST colleagues. Every change of law matters to me, especially this one. This law also gives some authority to the president of the parliament who are not... with the democratic role of Parliament's president, I think we will agree. In accordance with this law, he gives excuses, divides sentences, decides whether someone is left behind by a vote justifiable or not. My colleagues, the President of the Parliament is the head of the institution, he's your boss, but he's not our boss, i.e. Your boss is like a political group. We choose our leaders, we answer to citizens and answer to political parties. And how despised MOST is also given to political parties that it was particularly apostrophe in the fourth paragraph of this small law, where it is said that political activities will not be considered, so official routes for political purposes will not be considered justified. So, colleagues, you've become a political party, you're no longer MOST insatiable lists, I apologize, independent lists, you're now a political party, part of the mainstream, government, take it already. Otherwise you know Parliamentism is one of the fundamental constitutional values, see the Constitution of Article 3 and also the credibility of MOST very much, the fact that this week we colleagues and colleagues have been working since Wednesday, and you know it by whose decision, by your President-in-Office. So if the criterion is sitting in these benches, and we've just started working since Wednesday, then we've failed badly. I ask the question, why didn't we work every day? So the people who want to tell us that we have to show up here to keep the quorum, and if we were to pay for the sanctions, they didn't invite us to sit there. Monday and Tuesday, it's two days a colleague, two days, we haven't worked according to your criteria, I believe we have, but by these criteria we haven't. Make sure it doesn't work out, I have a little more time, so it doesn't turn out like you always say that we're just criticizing, that we're not suggesting anything, so that we don't seem to be struggling so hard right now for some kind of payment, here's a concrete proposal. In front of each of you is a card with a name and a last name, so it's a voting card, you know how it works, you go in there, you push the card, you press the same as when you vote on Fridays. Let's introduce a system so that every time one of us walks into this assembly and sits on his chair, I deliberately don't speak to my workplace but to my chair, let him stick his card nice and get registered. And let's make this information constantly, publicly available on the Croatian Assembly's website, so in the same way as Fridays when we vote, let every citizen of the Republic see which of us and when he is present in the Croatian Assembly, and when he is not, so let's let the citizens be the ones who will call us to account and tell us where you were, what you did. The pressure of the public, colleagues and colleagues, and let them decide whether the absence was justified or not, rather than the president of the Croatian Parliament. Don't make us crack-schoolers, and don't make a school principal or a classroom president of the Parliament. You're humiliating both us and the institution of President-in-Office of the Parliament. To conclude, the SDP club believes that parliamentary representatives must earn every kuna in the Croatian Parliament as a salary because we are paid by the taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia and are the only ones responsible for our work. The opposition has an inalienable right not to take part in the voting process because it is our expression of political will, not the issue of work or not work, and we will not give up a millimeter of it. The only criterion to evaluate our work or possibly not work is the result of the elections, and that's the bottom line of it all. We are colleagues and colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, we are politicians, we compete in elections, we want elections to be won, we want our ideas to be implemented. And believe me, there is no greater punishment for any political option than losing in the election. No fines of five hundred kunas, a thousand kunas, that's nothing. This law I will repeat again, is a form devoid of content, trying to save the face because it is very difficult at this moment to withdraw what has been so pompously announced. And this law does not solve absolutely anything dear colleagues. Listen to my advice, think about the idea, it's a good idea, let's let the citizens decide whether we work or not. Not to the President of the Parliament, not to you MOST colleagues, you're not the Arbitrarian or the only criterion. The SDP law like you suggested has no way of supporting it, and we'll give you suggestions, so you see if you agree with it or not. We are the opposition, you are the position of colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2692	Thank you very much, dear colleague Sauch. It seems to me that you've managed to achieve a record as far as the replicas are concerned because we've got 17 announced, so let's start from the beginning. The first is your colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2693	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Sauch, I agree fully with your debate and I have been in doubt these past few days, whether this whole series of MOST proposals is essentially just creating an impression that something is doing and setting the conditions for HDZ. But as of yesterday, I'm sure these laws are essentially throwing dust into the eyes, that a tax reform will pass behind and below the grains that will hit the poorest citizens of our society. MOST proposes these laws so that our citizens will not discuss that 7% will collect milk from 2018, that 11% will collect sugar, that they will collect bread, that medicines will be more expensive For all our fellow citizens, that health care will not be cheaper and education will be more expensive because books [[Intruder Reiner: A colleague of Maras, a colleague of Maras, you speak outside the topic.]] I'm sticking to the subject [[Intruder Reiner: I ask you to stick to the topic.]] I am talking about that this law and all the laws of MOST are proposed in Croatia and this law on 5 hundred kunas punishing our representatives for alleged not coming to the vote in essence to throw dust in the eyes to collect bread, milk, sugar, medicines and books. [[No, I'm sorry.]] It will be richer after the HDZ tax reform, MOST will be richer and the poorer will have higher costs of living. And that's what we have to talk about here. And that's what you should tell your colleagues at the Most. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I would punish 500 kuna for those MPs who vote for tax reform where milk, bread and sugar and medicines and books will be collected. They should be punished with 500 kunas, not those who will not vote and will not do quorum on the day of the session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2694	Thank you. Before we answer, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative Maro Kristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2695	Dear Chairman, since yesterday, colleague Maras has continued with such a practice that he practically presents facts that have absolutely nothing to do with the agenda point. This is Article 232. [[/Intruder Reiner: Tell me which article was injured?]] The Rules of Procedure on the work of the Parliament, which unfortunately fellow Maras does not know because he has been acting so responsibly as a parliamentary representative at this time as he was unable to look at the Rules of Procedure. He must know that there is a legitimate way to make his remarks. Before the session, he had a chance to ask for a break, he'd get a five-minute chance and talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2696	Yeah, I'm a colleague of Maras, and I've warned myself about it, and I'm asking all my colleagues to stick to the subject. There are a number of ways that each of us can express his views that have nothing to do with the bill's proposals or the documents that are being discussed at that time. There's a legitimate and business set of ways to do it. Please, let's stick to them, stick to the Rules of Procedure, let's not knowingly violate them. They'll answer with respect. Here's your colleague, Maras. What article?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2697	Vice-President, you have violated Articles 232 to 238 You can, you can. [[Intruder Reiner: I can't break 25.]] No, it's not a joke, you didn't first answer your colleagues at MOST whether this is a right violation of the Rules of Procedure or not. [[Please don't make a joke out of this House.]] Then I tell you that you violated the Rules of Procedure because that's not true. [[Invader Rainer: Yeah, I answered him that he was right.]] I spoke in my statement that 500 kuna should punish those MPs who would vote to collect sugar, milk, bread, medicines and books. That's my attitude under this law. If you need to write an amendment, I'll write it. But you have no right and you have no right to leverage the Most because you're in a coalition and I'm not allowed to talk about the problems our citizens are struggling with. Our citizens are tortured to get under the grain collects the basic basket of the product. [[Intruder Reiner: colleague Maras.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2698	Comrade Maras, you're doing it seven times now, you probably think the MPs are weak intelligence, so they didn't understand you for the first time. I'm begging you. I warn you! ... [[No, I don't mean that, but I think Mr. Vice President is saying...]] I warn you because you abuse [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[I won't sit down, why would I sit down? Why would I sit down?]] Quiet, please! [[Why should I sit down? What am I not allowed to say?]] I'm asking you first to keep your voice down. [[Mr. Vice President.]] First of all, I'm asking you to keep your voice down. Please keep your voice down, right? [[Intruder Maras: People must...]] Comrade Maras, you are aware that what you have said about the injury of the Rules of Procedure does not stand and that you have abused again that institution to repeat three more times what you said before. [[Intruder Maras: Stand, stand.]] Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2699	And why, is it forbidden to say that? Is it forbidden to say that under the grain it collects sugar, bread, milk, drugs and books?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2700	I'm giving you, I'm giving you a warning now.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2701	Is that forbidden to say?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2702	I'm giving you a warning now.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2703	Give me three more warnings, but you won't shut me up.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2704	I'm giving you a warning with a speech ban. Again, yes. [[Intruder: Again.]] Here you go. But the distinguished representative of Tomislav Sauch will answer. ... Come in. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Oh, great, then. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The next speaker will be the replica, i.e. the distinguished representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2705	Thank you very much. I'm glad you ruled out this gentleman because, not because of what he's saying or how he's supposed to talk, but because of their pride and insolence that they simply don't want to respect the chairman of the session, and they do it neatly so they don't cause any different effect, they find it interesting. But now it's about the replica. ... Who we've been listening to... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2706	I'm asking you not to yell from the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2707	Now, about what a colleague was talking about, about what a colleague from the SDP was talking about. The fact is that the billing of MPs with themselves is not something new and it has been going on since 2012 and neither the Most nor HDZ started, the SDP started it. Then let's just remember the famous suspension of privileged pensions, remember those who were the loudest then, they abolished them all but those who were the loudest to them were those pensions after the Constitutional Court's decision. The next attempt by the SDP to raise the dignity of this House and parliamentary representatives was so-called. Electronic registration of representatives when entering the Assembly but not leaving the Assembly. Mr. Peđa Grbin gave us one hundred reasons why we should, we changed the Rules of Procedure, and we all write it well inside, and then we hear a fellow member of the Stazić the other day in the media says I'm going to register with them, which I would register when they don't need it. And today we came after the famous 6+6, so 3+3 abolishing it to punish ourselves because we're at a vote or not. What is the practice of voting? We have an electronic, public, hand-lifting and secret. What does the electronic vote say? In the last term, we saw them sitting here full of assembly, almost all the MPs and the quorum is gone. How are we going to punish that? Obviously, there's no way to do that. Obviously, it will not solve these amendments to the law either, but it should certainly be considered in two readings in which way and possibly by amending the Rules of Procedure For for public voting by hand they are restrained, and for electronics those present and not voting there is simply no and should be punished with 500 kuna. [[Intruder Reiner: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2708	A colleague, Tomislav Sauch, raised his hand. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2709	My dear colleague, you've brought one lie here, I don't really know how to qualify for it, I won't say stupidity because it's an ugly word to me. But you said we canceled the pensions, and then we gave them back. We didn't bring them back. They were brought back by the Constitutional Court as far as I know. That's what you said yourself. But you insinuated that he brought them back to SDP. And as for any control of arrival and departure, it might hurt you. I remember when you were caught, so to speak, in the middle of the white day of the square, the flower square in the center of the city of Zagreb, how nicely quiet you drink coffee around noon. So I think, that's why I believe you're apriors against this, but we're not apores against some kind of control, but not control in a way that's being done under the threat of criminal measures, financial sanctions. It's exactly what I said we're going to make the presence of parliamentary representatives in the assembly extremely transparent. Let's put it on this display, or let's put it on the web pages and at any time let someone know if Boric is in the assembly or is in the Flower Square drinking coffee. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2710	You're the one who's done this to my colleague, Bauk. You're the one who's done this to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2711	Yes, Mr. Vice President. So many articles of the Rules of Procedure were broken that I had to write them down. Article 232, Article 237, Articles 238, and 240. Let's go from the end. So Article 240 was broken because you gave your colleagues Maras a warning by taking away words even though he did not have a word at the time because he had finished his presentation. So that's the first one.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2712	He was saying it when I told him, but he kept saying it, and he couldn't stop. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2713	So you're in a dilemma, you're going to tell him 241st time away from the session, so it's not so much, then you should have let him finish. As regards Article 232a, as regards Article 235, Mr Boric also went beyond the scope of the debate, or in the replica he did not touch the replica of Mr Sauche's presentation or the topic on the agenda. And please one more sentence, I'm running out of time, please one sentence. Thank you, Mr. President. My proposal to the promoters or the presidents to follow Vice-President Jandrokovic's practice which can be reduced to MOST, let's take it easy on the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2714	Well, I estimate the Rules of Procedure haven't been broken, but I agree. I think a little less passion and a little less level I'd say emotionally would be useful to everyone and that we'd probably be more constructive then in our discussions. Now we'll return to the replicas for the presentation of fellow Sauche. Next in line is a colleague of Nikola Grmoy's, gone, lost his right to the replica. Next is Honorable Representative Blaženko Boban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2716	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Saucha, it has faded a little now your exposure after these three hours of burning in the Parliament, a time of calm vote, but it was preceded by that burning period of an hour that happened. But I have a lot left in my memory of what you said in your presentation. First of all, I'm going to tell you two, three days ago when the Parliament's presidency was considering and talking about the Ethics Code, and I've been thinking about whether mature people, people's envoys in this House of Commons, need an Ethics Code. But after your presentation, I'm sure we need the Ethics Code here and not just yours, but especially yours. Also because of what has been happening and what your debate has in some way faded I think it is necessary and urgent to work on amending the Rules of Procedure of this Parliament in order to at least conclude in continuity certain thoughts at this point your debate has been held, and then further debate in that segment. Your strange debate was in this segment because the promoter has made it clear on many occasions here that he wants it to be an initiative through this very brief bill, but that he invites all of you and all of us to contribute to it. You said at one point, no, we don't serve here to contribute. You serve to bring it to every law as well as to this bill. I know it's not possible, that you're not able to propose the amendment for the simple reason because you have a technical problem. You don't have a club president here who will sign these amendments for you, and on the other hand you invite the promoters on several occasions yesterday that they are not present here, and you don't even have an amendment as president of a club to sign. So I'm asking you in the future after this ethical code that we bring here that you and the rest of us stick to right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2717	Thank you. The honourable representative of Tomislav Sauch will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2718	Dear colleague, I agree with you a little while, and it's so little awkward to discuss now after three hours as long as it's been since my debate. I gave the idea, so you can't say I was just criticizing it, I was very careful about it. And I think it certainly needs to be done when there's some criticism that a counter-proposal should be made. I have made a very clear and very simple counterproposal i.e. A contribution in which we can put an end to this and this now, that we understand each other. In this assembly right now, there's not even 30% of us, and don't think that it doesn't irritate me, especially at this very moment where today, what I deeply think is my beliefs and attitude of the club is being represented, but here we are. I gave one idea that I think is good and that it's easy to implement, so you can't say I didn't give these cards that we voted with today. Then you'll see who escaped from the assembly this afternoon, so let them ask him the questions of the press or the public where you went. And it's not just going to go to you and us, it's going to go to all of us. I think we have to go that way, you said right. What kind of adult people are Parliamentarians, MPs, that we have to impose sanctions on ourselves, that we need an Ethics Code, and that we don't have a moral compass to know that we have to treat our business responsibly. But I was also talking about the fact that it's not the job of a parliamentary representative just to sit in this chair. But I would also like to know where the rest of the assembly is and whether they are doing something right now that might be called useful or simply taking the stand that Friday afternoon. I don't. I'll be here till the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2719	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2720	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I picked up the line this morning at 11:00, almost forgot what I was going to say. You are a colleague of Sach, as well as colleagues from MOST in this bill, said that the main intensities of this law are the return of dignity to this home. Now there's one item in it, which, although a brief change is one that tells me that this law could bring down the integrity of this House of Commons. And that is now when the proposed legislation is listed which, the reasons that are justified and then you have reasons that are approved in advance or subsequently by the President of the Croatian Parliament. So by this law, we give the President of the Parliament the right to decide what is justified, what is not justified. So, let's say, in the last term of 2012 we often held protests here in Mark's square against some of the laws we passed. Now if some MPs, the opposition MPs were then often with protesters outside, did not want to take part in the vote, if we have such a situation now, it may happen that the President of the Parliament would have an unwarranted presence. And on the other hand, we've put a great burden on the President of the Parliament who's going to have to decide what's justifiable, what's not justified. Whether volunteering at the hospital in Metkovic is justified or it is an unwarranted absence. The second thing is, what happens when the press starts to investigate, who gets, who doesn't have one and justifiably is absent and justifiably absent and who doesn't have one, and it's unwarranted. So they start looking for us in Croatia where we, what we do, did the president tell us that we can go, we can't go, what they're going to evaluate. And I support the intensification that order should be introduced, I support, I'm not against punishment or money, but to approach it a little more seriously. We have the same example today that Mr. Šimić spoke one thing about this proposal, then Mr. Podolnjak says, it is not exactly what Mr. Šimić says, then 10 minutes behind him, the President of the Parliament of Petrov says, not that, confirms the thesis of Mr. Simic and essentially completely contrives Mr. Podolnjak. So even a colleague from the Most should agree on what they're proposing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2721	Thank you, my colleague Tomislav Sauch will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2722	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm sorry, I'm thinking about what I'm gonna say, so I didn't lift it. My colleague and I agree completely with you and I think that today we are actually related to this law we have heard several conflicting opinions, i.e. interpretations. And I think it's very bad when it comes to one law before it's even passed it has to ask authentically, that is, yes, the authentic opinion of the motionor to see what the intention is. Because Mr. Simic said very clearly on the board that he would be asked only to be in the Parliament, so in the building of the Parliament, the halls, the smoking terraces or possibly the cafe. Today, Mr. Podolnjak denied it and said that the important moment of voting and presence in the assembly in the event of voting, so quorum, so that then the President of the Parliament, Mr. Petrov, would return to Mr. Simic's thesis that it was only important to be in the building. We've been told before that coming to the Parliament that it's the greatest absurd, if that's what we've come down to, then it's just a form without content. And if it's a voter's presence, we've said the same thing. We believe that this violence is a position over the opposition, that the right to opposition is obstructing the vote has always been, always will be. I think this is a very serious thing and that we shouldn't, like with some articles here, I mean. The parts of the law mock but I have to ask one question, let's say if what Mr. Dolnik says is just a vote. For example, what happens if during the vote one of the MPs has to get out of the assembly urgently, for example on the toilet, will he ask the President of the Parliament if he can get out? Do you see the situation, the humiliating position of both MPs and the President of the Parliament? Are we going to take a break plate for the bathroom? I mean, I caricate, I caricate badly, but I have to do it to make a point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2723	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2724	A fellow Sach should not be surprised that Mr Simic, Podolnjak and Petrov have different interpretations of this law. It's quite normal, it comes from the text of the law. Because Article 1(2) states for any unwarranted absence from the Croatian Parliament on the day of the vote in the Croatian Parliament will be punished. Which means, which means a representative will be punished if he's not in the Parliament building, not if he's not in the hall, not if he doesn't vote. The item below is the absence of representatives from the vote in the Croatian Parliament. It's something else entirely. That's how my colleague Podolnjak interprets it. We'll punish you if you don't vote not if you're not in the Parliament building, but if you don't vote. And in the sea of replicas we have he explained that it's normal, natural, constitutional, and that's how it should be done. The item below says, official travel for the purpose of party activities and other absences of representatives from the vote in the Croatian Parliament will be considered or will not be considered. The promoter in three passports, three times different definitions of what they would like to punish, so there is no need to wonder that it is not clear to them either, let alone that it should be clear to the representatives, let alone that it is clear when these provisions are to be applied. So this is another of the guarantees made by MOST, but it seems like it seems more time than it did in making a legal proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2725	Thank you. The Honorable representative of the Sauch will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2726	Dear fellow MP, that's exactly what I was thinking when I said several times in my presentation on behalf of the club that this law was written badly. So it also entered my eyes the fact that we have a discrepancy between the first article, i.e. the item and everyone else. Any unwarranted absence from the Croatian Parliament, if I agree, would be on the trail of what counterpart Simic said and said by Parliament President Petrov. The Parliament can be interpreted broadly, the building of the assembly. However, here the other two speak the articles very clearly, it is said of the vote. So I think you'd be more inclined to interpret that the real intensity of this law was exactly what my colleague Podolnjak said and something was said by the President of the Parliament and Mr Simic. But I think at the end of the day, this law, what we're going to end up looking for, is an authentic interpretation of the Legislative Committee. Who's gonna use that? There's other nonsense in this law. So this situation where the President of the Parliament justifies a subsequent post-festum of someone's absence. My colleagues, how is that going to work? Who are we gonna call? Are you going to have one person in the president's office we're going to call and we're going to make excuses? I mean, he says this lack of work at the club is justified. What's a clubwork? We sometimes know in SDP clubs have outside the Croatian Parliament, and I believe you also know how to have, and you have your clauses in various parts of Croatia. We can call it a club. So you need to define that and you need to agree to each other that before voting on this, we know exactly what you meant when you wrote in the law that there will be a penalty for non-election and voting or non-presence, presence in the building of the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2727	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Robert Podlonjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2728	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Now, as a colleague, I should have said that two hours ago, when we were looking for a replica. In fact, I expected the least replica and presentation from the SDP Club, and if you would talk about it, I expected you to be for a very strict and rigorous law that will go in the direction of the more drastic sanctioning of representatives who do not come and do not work in the Croatian Parliament. Have you ever imagined and wondered what it would be like in the past term, because you were the largest party then, the biggest opposition party in the Croatian Parliament with the largest number of MPs that your president of the opposition club in this House was coming to the meetings, that I was on behalf of the club of MPs, that he was here asking questions in the current hour of the prime minister, that he was here replicating, that he was leading a parliamentary battle here as the leader of the opposition was supposed to lead a parliamentary battle. And if he had been here, would you perhaps have achieved a much better result and not been in opposition today? Everything your leader did was somewhere else, but it wasn't here in this Croatian Assembly. And I'm surprised that you didn't understand the message sent to you by the citizens that they expected your leader here to fight for his views and for the views of your party and not elsewhere, and that the citizens obviously didn't do it elsewhere and that work elsewhere and that he was supposed to be here in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2729	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Sach will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2730	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thanks again, I'm not good at this pro-tourplicating sticklifting. My colleague, not when it comes to quorum, so we discussed it today, I said, I made a proposal, so I made a proposal that I think is quite condescending, easily implemented, with minimum resources if the resources are generally needed to make it available, so the presence of a representative at a session publicly available at any time. That at this point, while we're sitting here, journalists or any citizen of the Republic of Croatia can look at the Assembly's website and see that you're sitting here, that I'm sitting here, that my colleague sits here and sees the same person who doesn't sit here. And to put pressure on us in public. This is a problem with MOST, you constantly patronise Croatian citizens. You think everything will be resolved by some bans, sanctions. We believe that Croatian citizens can choose. So here's to it, we lost the last election, maybe you're right, maybe we made a mistake, maybe we should have been there more. But let it be our decision. Don't make it all the time. You want to fix someone else all the time. It's MOST's basic kind of sending to change everything around it including political parties. Let us have this freedom. Don't take that away from us yet. And I'm your colleague, I think it's actually a little awkward for me to tell you colleagues you're a professor of law school, I appreciate it infinitely, I'm a former student, i.e. A graduate lawyer, but I'm going to tell you now that I've always seen you more as an expert than I've ever known since this bill of law that I believe you've written is hard to say. And I see that in the meantime, you've turned into an excellent politician who in the best manner of MOST shares the pucks and lessons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2731	Thank you. The next is a replica of the respected representative, Mark Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2732	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, Mr. Collar, in your presentation, you've devoted some of your exposure to some sort of moaning about some things. You've expressed concern for your work in the Parliament. You said you didn't have an office, you don't have a laptop I don't share your opinion on it. We often see in this Croatian Assembly that we come up to the gallery of children with teachers, I worked at school for 20 years, I can honestly tell you that I am not as wheezy about working conditions in 20 years of school as I have seen in this House. So we can bring your laptop from home. I'm often down at the library, and there are also conditions to work. I don't think the subject of this debate should be bad working conditions in this House because they haven't.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2733	Thank you. The Honorable representative of the Sauch will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2734	I think I touched it once like that in the periforous part of my speech. I don't know why you guys got into it, but we can open up that subject. Yes, you now have responsibility for the work of the Croatian Parliament and your president said when he swore here that he wanted to fix it, i.e. that he wants to raise the importance of Parliament and of us as parliamentary representatives and committees at all. And when I talked to you today about the fact that we don't have the conditions to work, that we don't have the conditions to work. It's not a whining, it's a finding. You know, I think it's minimum minimum to get a table, I don't need a computer, I'll buy it myself. It's not a problem at all. The problem is, i.e. It's a matter of principle. I want to have a place in this building where I can sit down and prepare some speech, some debate, maybe a bill. If you think it's unnecessary for me to complain that it's something a parliamentary representative shouldn't get. Well, I don't know, I mean, then you really misunderstood what the sense of a parliamentary representative was. I'm going back to your colleague. It's not the point of a representative sitting here all day. Some do it better, some do it worse. I'm having trouble with my neck. I can't sit for more than half an hour. I've got to get up. I've got to get up. I've got to get up. But that doesn't mean I don't. I was getting ready for this debate and more than necessary, because in some things I'm a slightly perfectionist. Look, I'd like to have, I think we should all have, that's what Mr. Rainer was going to do, the former president was going in that direction to start giving MPs some conditions for work, some desks. It's not supposed to be the whole office, but to be able to leave our stuff somewhere, so you can leave yourself some books somewhere and eventually, yes, that you can even take someone from the citizens. That you don't have to do it in the cafe, that you don't have to do it in the hallway, that you don't have to write discussions on your knees. If it's so scary, if it's a bitch then it's good, then it's a moaning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2735	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Sinisha Varge. He's gone? He's losing his right to a hearing. The next replica is the esteemed representative Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2736	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. There was talk about the dignity of the Croatian Parliament, and I think that in his presentation, Sauch's colleague well detected that the focus should be shifted from trying to limit the way of voting, and I explained them to all five who exist, the anti-constitutional restriction on one other thing, which is the willingness of the debate advocates who are led here especially for these serious issues when writing regulations and laws that affect the lives of all our citizens. And are the MPs really ready? Well, as we can see very often, they're not ready. Why aren't they ready? Either because they are unconscious or because they have no conditions to prepare for the work. We had practice today, a quoted practice of some European parliaments that punish MPs for their way of voting. But we did not have examples, for example, because all parliaments have more or less assistance that MPs have from professional associates in their work in order to competently prepare themselves for their work. And how often MPs don't prepare for their work, then we have a bunch of incompetent debates, a bunch of nonsense. And if it were asked to pay in Parliament not in the way of voting, but in the nonsense given in the Parliament, then I guess the parliament would be the most profitable institution in the state. I have to tell you in the U.S. Congress discussions are being spoken, the pay phone is saying that the hall is completely empty. Where are the congressmen? In their offices, they do business and monitor the Internet television as it says. They have their own associates who also follow and give a summary of one presentation to their congressman. Associates consult all the so-called so-called. Stackholders or stakeholders who are interested in a particular question before Congress determines its position. Therefore, it is necessary to go among unionists, among employers, to go among NGOs, to socialise and discuss serious topics with foreign ambassadors. It takes time and time to use our working hours when we are not in the assembly. We are preparing for a competent, overly, quality debate so that quality legal solutions can come to the benefit of our citizens. And that's why I think that the willingness, competence of the parliamentary representative for the issues he's talking about is much more important than to limit his right to vote without listening to each other and that it's not the goal of just sitting here and wrinkling it out of today's debate, where Mr. Simic is saying one thing, Mr. Podolnjak the other, and the President of the Parliament is the third. It is seen from this, and Mr. Boric advocates that the parliamentary MPs, to resolve the issue of sitting here and being part of the quorum, are not voting for, against or abstention. Well, that's one way to vote. If he'd listened to me, he'd be against it. So we need to listen to each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2737	We need to listen and stick to Rules of Procedure and time. Here will be answered by the distinguished representative of the Sauch.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2738	Thank you very much, Mr. President. counterpart Klisovic, I agree, needs to strengthen the capacity of the parliament, the administrative capacity of the parliament should be strengthened when it comes to clubs, when it comes to MPs. We can't know everything about everything. And we're in a position to decide everything a few times and some things that we don't understand very well. It would be good if we had help in those things. But I don't think that's entirely complete, so we have opportunities in the Parliament we have to manage a little bit. There are services, you need to ask, you need to prepare. Unfortunately, we cannot compare ourselves to the American Congress or I do not know the European Parliament. But it's never bad to go after it. I've been in the executive office, I know what technical support any assistant minister has. But I can't make peace with the fact that we're so irrelevant that we can't have any technical, I mean professional assistance. But here, I'd just like to find out, I don't know how many more replicas are left on my exhibit just one thing. So none of you have ever shown yourself to me about my idea before. So, everyone is wise to keep their mouths shut. I was suggesting something. So, I'd like someone to rephrase me or hear if we're serious, and so if we really want to put in control whether it's acceptable for one of you to do what I suggested, and that's a vote. registering with these cards. So I think it's a much more powerful tool than any sanctions in the form of a material penalization. So far, I've never seen anyone say yes or no. But think about it a little bit. So I know it won't fit people too well. I'll probably get criticism from my side of the assembly, but I think it's the only way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2739	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Glasnovic. He's gone. He's losing his right to a replica. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Davor Vlaovic. He's gone. He's losing his right to a replica. counterpart Sabina Vosovac, however, is here, so she will replicate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2740	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You have made a good proposal constructively to record through these cards, therefore, and to monitor what is happening in the assembly itself. I will repeat my position that it is necessary to come to the Assembly or to punish the absence of a vote or not to participate in the vote necessarily does not bring the quality of the work of the Croatian Parliament and absolutely does not mean the return of the dignity of the Croatian Parliament and the return of the greater trust of our citizens in representatives and representatives in the Croatian Parliament. What do citizens have to say since our very arrival on Fridays? What do they have from our silence here, if we're present? What have some debates and even voting on behalf of laws that do not work in their interest but are contrary to their interest? That's the key questions. If we want to restore the dignity of the Croatian Parliament and if we want to restore citizens' trust in us, then we need to think about some other solutions. For example, if we punish no participation in Friday's vote, it would mean an example that when we left this chamber 6 months ago, we prevented the adoption of harmful laws that should burden our citizens to pay for medical services, we would be at that time that this law was in force as SDP paid 18 900 kuna, 450 kuna per agent or MPs. On the other hand, will there be any punishment tomorrow for those MPs who will vote for, say, a new tax law that brings new charges? He won't. Well, now these are some absurd situations that we need to deal with and which we need to think about.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2741	Thank you. The Honorable representative of the Sauch will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2742	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My fellow Members, I think it is very important to draw the line here once again and to highlight this great difference between coming and not coming to the working bodies or sittings of the Parliament and coming and participating in the voting process. One is the expression of acts of political will, and the other is participation in the work of the Parliament, which let's admit at the phenomenal level this looks very, very ugly. But again, we're going back to the basic question of how the MOST colleagues who are currently in position, they're the ones who impose this now, how they see the work of the assembly. Because MPs, here is what counterpart Podolnjak said today that is exactly the way towards restoring the dignity of the Croatian Parliament because it is not working here, and then it will be working at the time when the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are most important, and that is when they vote. So it's notsens. The only thing who can care whether the opposition was here and voted or not is the position in case they lack the quorum. I don't know why, they're traumas left from the last call. You are now 90 plus/minus and I don't think you'll have a problem with the quorum. I don't know why this panic? But if there's ever a chance we'll do it, but not every time. As I said, we want our voice heard as we vote on certain topics. Well, that's the same thing in the U.S. Congress, you've got a track record, every congressman's very careful how he voted and on what mattered. That says a lot about the man, you know. So the work isn't the point in the assembly at the moment of the vote. Work is all that's left. This is the political violence you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2743	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2744	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Saucha, if I have followed your exposure well, then your intention is, in fact, to turn the whole work here into five days and those five days to really be binding, to have MPs come and be from Monday to Friday. So it's not just about to be a vote. But let's go back to your SDP party participating in the work of the Parliament, so from his first days, so if we look at the pre-examination you were here but I didn't notice that your colleagues respected that particular part of it, means that five days are here, that they're working actively on it. You were also absent, and now you're introducing a new rule that you didn't want to introduce yourself. What worries me the most is that if this initiative were to pass I don't know how it would be mirrored through your club president who isn't here, he doesn't attend these sessions, he doesn't show up. And if we look at maybe the wolf is changing his hair and not his temper, then it probably looked like the government's work where the Prime Minister was expected to work with his ministers daily, to be helpful, to use their potential and coordinate them. If you're defending this, I don't really know that you'll be able to hold it in your ranks, not impose it on others. And I agree with you when you said you should know clearly where the MPs are. There's only one thing you said wrong. I think your voters and all our voters are interested in where we are when we're not here. It should be something that I agree to be on this display to know then if someone is in Albania, whether he is there to support the views of his voters or he is private there and I don't know how he will vote on some topic, whether he will get the device maybe there and plug it in or maybe we will ask a fellow Albanian assembly to allow him to vote there. So I'd like to pray that on this issue already who is present, I think it's crucial that we see if you're not at the quorum to clearly express your point of view we're not for quorum, and you're not going to give for or against the bill itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2745	Thank you. The answer will be given by a distinguished representative of Tomislav Sauch.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2746	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dude, I'm not going down to that level, I'm not. I mean, this was just a cheap try to pull. But I'll tell you I'll answer to this part you mentioned for about five days. Yeah, I see absolutely no reason to work mines all five days a week. I know it's some colleagues from some other parts of Croatia who may be the mayors, the mayors, that's what's bothering them. I think every institution when I was in the government I worked from Monday to Friday and Saturday and Sunday together with the prime minister, and we have to be realistic and say that Parliament can work as much as there is material to discuss, right? I was afraid how this would go now because I see we have some pace not too fast, it's not up to you, nor the chairman, nor anyone. This depends on the amount of interest. We're going at the pace we're going. I was afraid we'd spend these topics and we'd have to take a break, but here's the 30 reports today. I know from experience that each report will last for at least one day and that it will last indefinitely. Well, maybe here, I'll tell you first, let's work Monday through Friday. I don't see why we started working this week since Wednesday. It's also not one of you people that's replicated me from the Most, for example. ...the need to explain why we started working from Wednesday. We could've worked both Monday and Tuesday. Today, this law would have been discussed long ago, so we could discuss it tomorrow. Not tomorrow, but maybe today we could discuss the CNB. But we've been working since Wednesday. Try to answer that question. Why did the President of the Parliament call a session only from Wednesday? And that I think the boards should, like, Mondays and Tuesdays, not be in the middle of the day on Wednesdays, Thursdays. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2747	Thank you. And the last replica of that distinguished representative, Ivan Sincic. He's gone. He's losing his right to a replica. That's what we used up this extensive number of replicas on a colleague of Sach's. And we're going to the next Club of Representatives, and that's the Live Wall Club in the name of which the distinguished representative Branimir Bunjac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2748	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Given the subject we're discussing, maybe I could add respectable chairs and microphones. In fact, we are today discussing the failure of parliamentary representatives to attend meetings and in general to our work, and it is regrettable that we have to discuss this, that such a law had to come before this House of Commons. Is it true that with all those elements of the discipline that exist in political life, we have not been able to achieve at least some minimum that at these parliamentary sessions we have quorum, if we do not already have a large majority of the representatives present. What are the party presidents doing? What are club presidents doing? What are the board presidents doing? Where did their authority go? If they have it or don't want to use it, we now have to pass a special law to bring someone here to our job. If those levers fail to discipline their own members, where has our personal pride, honor, dignity gone compared to the vast majority of Croatian workers? Do you know how Croatian workers live and work? Do you think they get paid overtime? Do you think they get travel expenses? You think pregnant women keep their privileges until they're at work? Do you think they have the right to be late for work? Do you think they have air conditioning in their workplace? They have to work without any opposition at all, every complaint is a work book in hand. Ask around how the bosses treat their workers. Ask around about cases where people got fired because they sat down at work, sat down for five minutes, and that's why they got fired. And when you hear that, when you find out, you'll be ashamed of making up reasons why you don't come to plenary sessions and working-body sessions. Everything is important, you need to work in the field with your voters, and where it says you get paid for it. It's supposed to be in front of the Parliament. What protests, where have these protests been for the last month and a half? I didn't see any. So if there's that protest I'm going to go and get off my salary, but I'm not going to ask for an excuse not to come to the sessions because the session is a priority for that being paid, for working on committees is getting paid and compensation. And it's sad that none of you here, us, have found enough sense of responsibility to need a law like this. To say, the truth is, my people are suffering, my people are having a hard time living, I have to be his role model, I have to set an example for him. And what are we doing? We play the stars, not what I'm going to do at the session, I have my job, very important, I get my salary 100 euros a day, and I don't care what people think about it. And then when we get to see that we can't discipline ourselves, then let's go, let's punish. But punish each other in the Republic of Croatia in the same way. Let's show some solidarity. At the end of the law, everyone should be equal to the rights, at least the elementary ones. Here I worked 20 years in education, in science, I was in primary school, in high school, in high school, in college, in 20 years I didn't miss a single hour of work. If I'd been 10 minutes late, my principal would have given me a notice before I was fired, if I'd been 10 minutes late. I was a member of the school board as well as thousands of people are now members of the school board. Do you know how much compensation you get for working on the school boards? Zero kuna. You know how many times I've been missing? Not once. The school boards are working after hours. So they have to work eight hours first and then go to a session of the school board that lasts four hundred for zero kuna. And I saw with my own eyes where a colleague was unjustly left behind and immediately thereafter she was relieved of her duties. It's my right, but you don't know that. So you think that even the legislator can be a committee session and not come. We're proposing laws there's no us in the assembly. We're reporting for replicas. We're not in the assembly. So it's a complete difference between what's being said and what's being done, or what's going to be done. He said Mr. Podolnjak that he studied cases in Europe and that, yes, the truth is in most European countries, at least as far as I got from the parliamentary services was being punished like this, but not in such a soft way. No one will be punished like this. You're taking a shower. If the paushal is 1,500 kuna, three times you are gone, you are charged the penalty, and no more after that you do not have to come 26 times to the vote, the penalty is no more. Why isn't it removed from a salary that is an unlimited source of funds for such sanctions? So you should be present when you vote. How can I vote and I don't know what this is about? How, how can I vote, I don't understand, I will come and ask the President of the Parliament or my party president, you can tell me what to press. Therefore, the rule should be introduced to sanction the pay of the representative and not only the representative's fee. Also when we talk about this feeling of ethics I would like to remind you that the Croatian Parliament does not have an ethical code at least as far as I know it. How is that possible? Why didn't it try using the ethical code to introduce some kind of discipline? So all institutions have an ethical code. Not one, by 2, 3 ethical codes. There is one code of professional, the other one has to harass at work and I don't know what kind of ethical codes there are and the Croatian Parliament stops the adoption of an ethical code. Well, maybe if such an ethical code had been passed and in the House, maybe this law wouldn't be necessary for now. In addition, this example can also justify the failure to arrive afterwards, where there is a permit for the absence to be subsequently justified. The absence should be justified in advance. Ask any institution and the institution is justified in advance. There are also sanctions in Germany or Slovenia for the justified absence. So in Germany if someone is not present at the session pays 200 euros unjustly and justifiablely 100 euros, every absence is punished. I don't know, Mr. Podolnjak, you've now been on sick leave, have you received 100% salary or 70% salary like any other Croatian employee? Please tell the public. So it's just that it's time for our representatives to wake up and realize that this is a job like any other job in the Republic of Croatia. By not coming to the sessions, we represent a non-trust generator in institutions in the Republic of Croatia. Everything we do is multiplied thousands of times. How long did it take for only one Pope Francis to take the golden cross off his neck? And the next day, 50,000 priests took the golden cross off their necks. Everything you do has a lot of consequences for this society. Why don't the citizens trust us? So simply because we don't have any sense of solidarity and because we've turned into an elite, insensitive elite living one's life apart from real life. And for that reason, I expect and suggest that these penalties be put on the alert in a way that is punishable, that the MP be removed from the salary of every non-receivement at a plenary session, every failure to attend a committee session. And it will be the only thing that will be effective given this state that we now have, the state of consciousness so long as people whose penalties will simply not be needed in this House are not elected because they will work just like any other citizen in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2749	Thank you, pal Bunjac. And your exposure caused quite a number of replicas. She's the first of those respected representatives of Nikola Gromoja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2750	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I don't know who this exhibit has been sent to? Maybe your colleagues who aren't in the assembly right now. You entered a total of 7 from the list of the only option and you are the only one in the assembly, that's about 14% of the MPs. So here we are with the attorney of the Most here, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 means from 13 that's over 50%. So this was probably exposure to colleagues Sincic, Pernar and the others and not to us sitting here in the assembly. So here's colleague Pernar very quickly publishing these videos here from the Assembly, so it would be good to share on his facebook and look before that he and other colleagues from the Living Wall. 9 of us here say colleagues, even more. So I don't know who this exposure was intended for. And as for the fact that you're demanding that punishment be stricter and that work and committees be valued, and work in others, work in the field, I don't know what you're looking for, and we said in the beginning that we're open to all proposals, we're for stricter punishment. This is the proposal we agreed on with HDZ and received their support. We can only change things if we have 76 hands in the Parliament. You put forward a proposal, if your colleagues from the SDP, they said the same thing that they would appreciate and the other work of the MPs not only sitting in the Assembly, if we have 76 hands for it we will gladly support it. And this exposure of yours wasn't directed to these people who sit here and listen to your exposure, but probably to your clubmates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2751	Thank you. The esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2752	Here's a thank you fellow esteemed president. A fellow bushman, therefore, the representatives of the Living Wall are in the Parliament every day and have been to this debate so far. They just know what I'm saying, I'm talking to a living wall representative and we've agreed to the views, they're just currently absent meanings for about half an hour, and that's not. However, it is addressed to all of you and to us and to what it is called to all MPs, whether they are hair or opposition. The problem, however, is that you proposed the law yesterday and four had a debater on the bill and no one showed up. You were supposed to come to the board and where were you? Did you maybe celebrate your birthday or did you do something? You're reporting for replicas and you're not here. So you could use the self-criticity, Mr. Grmoya. You'd just shut someone up and criticize someone but it's good to move your yard too. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2753	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Sauche.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2754	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I don't think you're even aware of how much you've contributed to this debate. Right now, a colleague of Grumoja, actually for the first time admitted that the Most gave in to HDZ, that MOST was looking for a stricter model, HDZ didn't want and they said we couldn't vote for what we don't have 76 hands. So this is good, so the Most matures as a political party. In the last term, we saw a lot of earthquakes that were caused by the intrepidness of MOST. So I think this is one of the breaking moments of our demo of parliamentary democracy, and here's a fellow Grmoya laughing. But I have to work with my colleague, and here's where I agree with my colleague Grumo, I hate to, but I have to. I mean, I thought you were talking on behalf of the club, but you're actually here, I mean, you're alone, you're giving lessons and pucks and your colleagues are gone, now whether they're gone for half an hour or not, it's like that on my mother, they'll come back, and maybe they won't. I mean, you're moralizing, and otherwise, it's a task here for a fellow in MOST, so I'm even more confused. But here's the joke on the side, I think we should be a little bit more constructive, and I think that if you're already going into the moralization process, at least make sure that there's at least two of your colleagues who aren't there right now. I think you'll agree with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2755	Thank you. The esteemed representative of Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2756	I can agree with this piece of work where it is found that this law is actually not reformal, that it is no guarantee, that it was essentially used to create the impression that five weeks of negotiations with HDZ on reforms were negotiated and, in fact, as far as we can see, it was mostly about chairs. Whether these were some reforms, whether these were guarantees would certainly have been more radical, would have changed more articles and more sentences than we have cases of changing a few words with that work. And on the other hand, I have to answer the SDP and the opposition that I'm supposed to be surprised that they're protecting, so their privileges, and that they actually feel that by not coming to the sessions, nothing will change. In that part, you're actually saying the same thing as HDZ and Most. And not once was there in that first debate about privileges, about funds, political parties. I actually didn't see a clear difference between you and the position, where you and each other actually advocated that this practice still remains. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2757	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2758	Dear colleague Bunjac, you've been a representative for two weeks. The institution you've been elected to is much older than you and me. Some lines may be drawn up to the 9th century, but surely from the moment the Parliament killed King Dmitry Zvonimir because he wanted to impose a decision on him to send the Croatian army to the crusade. Are you aware of that? Are you aware that you have come to the Croatian Parliament which is the only place where the most important decisions are made in this country? There is no decision in the history of the Croatian people that has not been made here. So go ahead and act like one! I allow you to tell me everything, but to insult me so openly, I won't let you. I've been in this High House Parliamentarian for nine years. I didn't go to the polls twice because I was on the official road sent by the President of the Croatian Parliament. In nine years if it's been ten days that I haven't been to the Parliament and where you get the right to moralize me. For four years, I was president of the Assembly Committee. On average, I haven't been able to sit in the assembly for more than 20 minutes because I've been doing my job bloody and fair thanks to the committee's initiative that I've been leading. The Croatian budget was incomed by 308 million kunas of pure money, but I will warn you it is the gross salary of the Croatian Parliament no less than in 4 and a half years. When you speak please and all your colleagues keep in mind where you are, keep in mind the respect of this institution. If you don't respect yourself, no one else will respect you. If no one else respects you, your word will be worth nothing. If your word is not worth anything or the laws for which you will vote won't be worth anything. Let us have respect for the task, according to that obligation given to us by the voter, both mine and yours. But let's not insult each other and belittle ourselves in such a low way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2759	They'll respond to a distinguished colleague of Bunjac's.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2760	Well, I'm glad that as a historian, my colleague Richembergh teaches me history, that he is here now giving me proof that it is the Croatian Parliament. I could ask you something about the history of Croatian coat of arms and anthem, so I'd like you to tell me what you know about it or in general about some other details of Croatian history. Mr. Richembergh your party is a party that symbolizes entrenchedness in the Republic of Croatia, your party has in Croatia electricityed its personnel to work for salaries of more than 20000 kuna. Everyone knows exactly what HNS is, and don't tell the Living Wall that the Living Wall doesn't speak for the people. The living wall speaks for the people, which is the very fact that in less than a year we have reached 8 MPs from one representative. And therefore, be firmly convinced that only, that we will continue to grow. That's all I have to say. The public hears this and knows very well who is fighting for the citizens and who is fighting for his privileges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2761	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2762	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Bunjac. Well, here are some parts of your debate I agree with. Everyone in the Republic of Croatia has to do their job responsibly and very consciously. However, you said in the debate that this job is like any other, but there is no agreement. Every job is in its own way specific. Even a top surgeon's job isn't the same as a dealer's job, because we can't measure it. Otherwise there is this in various scientific theories of norming work at a particular workplace, effect and in some occupations it can be measured slowly, somewhere it cannot be measured. When it comes to estimating the work of Parliamentarians, we must bear in mind that some fellow parliamentary representatives here are the mayors, the mayors. That's theirs, that's what makes it possible for them. The mayors can't be, but the mayors can be. And you have to understand the same thing that they have to do, and part of the job is about that job that's about their local self-government. On the other hand, there are papers on the committee of parliamentary representatives, papers and plenary sessions in the preparation of materials, and I think that I will contribute to this debate one might think it might be a good solution for each MP to have a commitment, a legal obligation to submit a report on his work once a year, to make the report available to the public and to assess then whether this representative was in that year, which he was actually doing. That report can be prescribed, its content can be chosen by any representative and then it would be an opportunity to see who did it. I agree with you, there were a lot of colleagues here who didn't do this job knowingly. However, there are many colleagues who are very conscientiously doing it, so they shouldn’t all be put in the same basket. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2763	I'm just asking you to come in, otherwise, according to the Rules of Procedure, you should report for a reply to the replica. It's okay, you can talk now, but otherwise it's become a practice not to hear from the MPs. I'd like to ask you to come in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2764	So I agree that work is different for each other. Of course, one job requires more education, one less education. This one is more dangerous, the other is less dangerous but there are therefore ethical standards, and the ethical standard says that you should come to the workplace and spend a certain number of hours at work. And it clearly says in the job description for which you get paid. Of course business differs, so someone gets 5 and someone gets 20 thousand kunas, but regardless, we all have to approach our business equally, access consciously. Croatian citizens I firmly assure you, it doesn't matter if they are the voters of the Living Wall or the SDP are opposed to an empty assembly. And on the other hand, I think that this law is basically as mild as I said it is and that we need to work on more levels to change this situation. So, the first level of discipline of the MPs themselves, the second party discipline, the third introduction of the ethical code, and then the fourth stricter law than that proposed by the promoter of MOST. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2765	Thank you. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Sabina Glasovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2766	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In your discussion, you pointed out that you were a member of the school board and that you received a fee of 0 kuna. I understand, and I've often been in that role myself. However, I think you said that work on the school boards would not be compensated if you said so if I didn't get it wrong, only correction. So it's not true. In the City of Zagreb, members and members of the school boards receive compensation for working on school boards. The fee is about 788 kuna gross per session. And I remember that very well, there somewhere in an article entitled “Cosor 45 Ears,” and how the heads of HSLS took over Zagreb's kindergartens and schools. So before the 2015 parliamentary elections. And then it was just in the media that it was actually a deal between Tomislav Karamark and Darinko Kosor that the people of HSLS were making peace through school boards and the administrative council of kindergartens. Well, I know that information about paying for it there. And the second part when you spoke about the fact that you consider penalties to be more severe and that there is a need to punish the unhappiness in the work of the working bodies or committees and the unhappiness on the ground. Now, in this actual bill of law, it's contradictory because if this bill remains, it means that all those MPs who don't come as Mr. Bozo Petrov said don't set foot in the Croatian Parliament don't necessarily approach the vote, and then you who go to the dissection or me who can volunteer on Fridays and act as city council in the City Council of Zadar we'll pay the fine, and let's say someone who entered the Parliament building and sits in a congregation bar or restaurant won't. Well, that's a little bit in my opinion in this bill as illogical if we're going to interpret it the way Mr. Petrov said, not Mr. Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2767	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2768	Yeah, if I went into deja tion and it would also somehow be sanctioned and it shouldn't be a problem. Here I was until two months ago, working in the state service, and no one ever let me in. I was a high-ranking member of the Living Wall in some way a public person but no one let me in. Although perhaps the mirage was more important at that time than what I was doing because it was affected by a larger circle of users and perhaps the reasons were different. Do you know how members of the Living Wall go into dissection? They take a vacation and they go. Here may be a parliamentary representative who feels that he must be working with people on the ground or somewhere can take an annual vacation. So what's the annual board, two months a year? Just like all of us. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2769	Thank you very much. The next call came from counterpart Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2770	Thank you, Vice President. Here I believe that a colleague in his debate had quite one noble intensities as well as the motions from the MOST regarding the laws. However, the methodology of exposure may have gone a little in some other direction if we can agree on it and I see that colleagues mostly agree with it, so I felt like in church for a moment and listen to a certain moral sermon and some teaching from pedagogy. I respect your knowledge and skills and your noble intensity as you say, but you said a lot of things, you said this, you said this, you said this, you said that. And now all the time it's a little bit of a bother to me because I personally don't belong to any of the categories that you guys say are problematic. So I'd say that on the one hand, you're setting yourself up, maybe unethical, and you're calling us others for ethics. And maybe generalization is not a good methodological approach to exposure because then here, esteemed colleagues are, and many of us are both professional and honorable people who do their job very consciously, very professionally felt and hurt and actually for no reason. And you said that not attending the sessions was a standard, if I'm okay, here I wrote it down. And I'd say not to attend the sessions was not at all a measure. The measure should be the amount of quality constructive discussion and against populism and demagogy. The same criterion should be how many MPs offer constructive solutions as counterpart Alexic versus how many MPs talk about the causes. There's one little anecdote, my former boss who's very esteemed and respected lady in intellectual circles and science doctor used to say Irena I love you because you come and bring me a solution to the table, and others come to me and tell me all about problems, and they don't offer me solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2771	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2772	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it was necessary to speak in this way because this assembly simply needs to be shaken up, so people should be awakened. We haven't noticed that there's a will here for problems to be solved. You mention the need for constructive proposals, the need for legislative amendments, etc. But people are sick of these promises, people are tired of you telling them one thing before the election, and after the election, the other. Don't let us draw news articles now that you promised everything, you HDZ and you never made it. Don't start now about thousands of euros for babies and for the things you've said and that's going to cut the HRT subscription, that's not going to happen here. You're all getting into some sort of parlour debate, some kind of legal framework, and that doesn't really mean anything to people. By the time these laws are passed and these measures, and they will be passed in one 20 years, which means people who dig through garbage cans and what it means to people who have to move out and who can't find a job. So, the thing is that you're under cover of some kind of constructiveity wasting our citizens' time on good wages, and you're doing very, very little.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2773	Thank you very much. Comrade Bunjac, I would only ask you when you talk about people and citizens you cannot speak on behalf of all citizens because you have received a certain percentage of votes as well as colleagues and colleagues from HDZ or SDP have received a certain percentage of votes and these are the same citizens. So look at a little percentage of who got it, and then after that, I think it would be a little bit more objective. The last to discuss this point came from counterpart Miro Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2774	Dear counterpart Bunjac, you have spoken several times in your presentation about the need to introduce the Ethics Code, so let me tell you, you may not have heard but when the President of the Croatian Parliament Mr Petrov announced in his first speech and in later acts the adoption of such a code which he certainly needed before. They've already held on to that subject as far as I know about certain meetings. I guess that's what the president of your club's gonna be involved in, too, so that's where we're going. I'm just telling you this as information. As far as your proposals are going towards a more restrictive one, as you said, the relationship to the work of the MPs, no matter what the proposal looks like and what kind of proposal you have, I can tell you from the position of MOST that we are interested in seeing your proposals, not just about this law, but about everyone else. And I'm going to repeat one thing that I told you in the debate about one of our legal proposals. Make your proposal to be quality enough, gather around you 62 MPs and you can count on the Most 14. This proposal that is now at this table, we didn't say it today, so at least I said it in press statements five or six times because the result of the partnership agreement between us and our HDZ colleague. And agreements are made by being ready for compromise. We think this is a step forward from what we've had as a solution so far or we haven't had any solutions, you offer better with the conditions that I said before, we'll support it. As for the absence of the MOST MPs you mentioned, I would like to point out that we in this proposal respected that MPs often have other obligations. For example. Some of my colleagues were in Maribor yesterday to show respect for the people who died there. We think it's important. I was the vice president of the Committee on Tourism and a representative in the Croatian Tourist Board on Days of Croatian Tourism, and I think it's important and I think we've been doing our job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2775	There's no replica. Thank you very much. So then we move on to a debate on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Boris Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2776	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs. We are discussing a bill bearing the name of the rights and duties of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. As the name of the law itself says, our rights and duties are governed by this law. This primarily applies to wages, pensions, various fees and other rights that we receive on the basis of the conduct of the agent's duties. This topic is thankless to me because we actually need to discuss ourselves and our rights that are always negatively experienced in public. Croatian citizens who are now watching us via direct television may in fact be speaking and commenting again and doing themselves. But I don't want to say that we don't need to discuss it, but it would be desirable to avoid demagogue arguments, populism, so to try to make rational arguments that here's the debate sometimes shows especially about these issues that this is not the case. When we first came to this assembly on the day of the constitution, we were all welcomed by one envelope, and there was a blue booklet in which in a clear and reviewed way showed particularly new parliamentary representatives who, therefore, were guides through the rights of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. All those rights prescribed for each parliamentary representative are not unusual. This is what all the countries of parliamentary democracy have, and these rights are not prescribed for us to be privileged to our citizens, these rights are prescribed precisely for the purpose of ensuring quality work and independence for each parliamentary representative, therefore of any interested and other groups that might in some way have an adverse impact on his work. The truth is, for the sake of truth, I don't think it's a demagogy, but it has to be said that from the moment the economic crisis broke out since 2008, these rights have been shrinking. We recently voted to reduce the right to 6+6 or one of its restrictions, hence the parliamentary pension in the 7th meeting, the government has reduced the base for the salaries of officials from 2009 to around here. 28, 29%. I don't consider it a bad move, but I believe that the Parliament and the Government have made decisions in accordance with this country's economic moment. So we can't say again that we haven't acted or that both the Government and the Parliament have not acted responsibly. Here in this proposal, we do not have a reduction in the right of MPs, but for the first time we have a proposal for sanctions in order to discipline the work of parliamentary deputies. What does that say? What kind of message does it send? It turns out that MPs cannot be disciplined in any way, so they should be punished, that some MPs may take their duty lightly. I think being a national representative is a great honor and a great commitment. We will all agree that we must primarily justify the citizens who have chosen us, our political option that has run us and who is behind us but also our own conscience, the work ethic I believe owns each of us elected parliamentary representatives. After all, on the day of the constitution, we all swore our honor that we would act conscientiously and responsibly as representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Then why do we have this proposal? Does an empty assembly irritate citizens? Does it irritate the media, does it irritate the public? We all know he's annoying? Are there any MPs who rarely come to the Croatian Parliament? They're there, they're there. And is it necessary to punish perhaps all parliamentary representatives or these representatives who are not regular at their work? That's what we're discussing right now. We all know and we need to consider that, that there was a colleague before me who said that he was a civil servant a while ago and he couldn't go into business during working hours, they didn't let him go, but we all know that the working relationship of a parliamentary representative wasn't a classical working relationship. In fact, we're all Members of Parliament 24 hours, getting out of this assembly and going home or on weekends doesn't mean stopping our duties. As long as we have a term of office, we do our duty. And we are paid not only to be in this assembly, we are paid to advocate the policies that have made us our citizens choose, to advocate these policies at all times where we are able. Because our job is towards citizens, to talk to citizens, to talk to political rivals, political colleagues, political allies, associates, coalition partners, to listen to proposals, ideas, to lobby, to advocate, to go to the government or to the minister, to try to arrange some joint projects for some of our communities that have chosen us. So it's a lot wider than the job so we can go to the public stands, to the raids, to the protests, it's all the work of a parliamentary agent. Although it is important to acknowledge and be honest that it is the most important, or most important, if not the most important job of a parliamentary representative to be here in the assembly. And that the most significant expression of political will, so political expression, is just a vote. However, we keep trying to look at this topic from two sides of the medal. I also believe that the failure to vote can be what the political statement says in America. Even if a representative of the position does not appear, why would a representative of a position or a particular group in a position not express a disagreement with the government's proposal he supports if he disagrees with that proposal? Of course, such advocates can always vote and be abstentioned but I think we should keep that kind of political struggle that we were talking about today, which is therefore the collapse of the quorum. I believe that we have all shown in the debate some position, that there should also be some ethical limits in the exercise of the mandate, but any restriction of freedom, even for the purpose of protecting that freedom, could endanger it if it were applied through the necessary measure. I don't think this bill goes in that direction, so it's not an overrun of that necessary measure, that it isn't, that none of us are going to get the crown off our heads if it's sanctioned for three diaries because it didn't come to the vote. And I don't think that here is the point of the discussion of sanctions, but that it is precisely the meaning of principles, freedom of political action and expression on the one hand and the need for more effective work and perhaps by disciplining MPs. Here we heard a few days ago and today in the debate that the President of the Croatian Parliament indicated the adoption of the Code of Ethical Conduct of Representatives. I think that's a good move. We have also committed ourselves to adopt this code, and it is planned to tackle corruption for the period 2015 to 2020, which was adopted by this Croatian Parliament on 27 February 2015. We also have an action plan that the government has adopted to implement this strategy and which provides for the adoption of such a single code. And the Code also recommended to you a group of countries against the corruption of the Council of Europe in its fourth evaluation report for 2014 where it made a recommendation taking into account all the regulations governing the rights and obligations of representatives in the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Code. So if we took that obligation, if we have one recommendation, it would be good to bring that code. I agree with the rapporteur's argument today that the code does not contain sanctions. Truth is, it's a soft low regulation. But I think it might be a good idea to go with him first and actually make the first and more appropriate step a code then before the bill on which we threaten a sanction. The proposal is also mentioned today by some countries that have similar solutions. Germany is also mentioned, the truth of Germany has, in my opinion, very strict measures to discipline MPs, so even when a representative does not come to Bundestag on the day of the meeting and if he does not come to the plenary session, then the punishment is double and he is punished even if he does not vote. I think we in the Croatian Parliament adopted a good parliamentary practice through parliamentary practice, which is the right of the opposition to break down the quorum. As we have a parliamentary custom for all of us to unanimously elect the President of the Croatian Parliament, as we have a good parliamentary custom that a number of parliamentary committees belong to the opposition or that a concrete parliamentary committee belongs to the position of the president means the opposition, to the strongest opposition party, so I think that some of me should preserve the good parliamentary customs that we adopted through parliamentary practice. I also studied this parallel practice a little yesterday and I say it was difficult for me, it was difficult for me to read exactly examples of France and Germany when I saw all the rights of members of Parliament in France and Germany, which are all amounts of money and material opportunities for quality work. As many as they have opportunities and have offices, so in the capital, they have in their constituency, they have assistants, they have the right to not know so many plane tickets. So a lot of material possibilities. Of course, we need to put our country in some economic context, we cannot fully compare with them. So we can't even get their examples just copy paste here. I have seen an example of New Zealand, New Zealand, in its procedural rights, so in its Rules of Procedure there is a solution that if you have unwarranted every other day for 14 days, you will be fined 10 dollars. So they're going to punish you for these first 14 days and then for every next day. And the MP, or member of the New Zealand Parliament, if he did not come at all, there is even the possibility that the President of Parliament would oblige him to come to Parliament, but there is actually no instrument for the forced detention of such a parliamentarian, but in fact it is more for the purpose of public condemnation. I'm telling you, we've never had such a practice sanctioning a representative before. It's a good thing we're discussing this. I think we can find some measure, but it would be good to keep good parliamentary customs that have been crystallized through our parliamentary practice. Finally, what I'd like to say is a few observations. I believe that the preparation of the second reading and the second reading should well define what is considered to be an unwarranted absence or a justified absence in order to narrow down the right of discretion to the one who determines whether any absence is justified or unwarranted. To me, it is not clear now from the legislative proposal who will determine whether the absence is justified or unwarranted, and perhaps it would be good in this direction to strengthen the argument and it would be good to step up the explanation or until the second reading to clarify the proposal's intention to sanction therefore a representative who comes to the Croatian Parliament but does not enter the assembly and does not vote or a representative who is in the assembly but therefore did not vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2777	My colleague Milosevic's time is up. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2778	Okay, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2779	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He's the first respected colleague of Arsen Bauk's. He's giving up, thank you very much. Another respected colleague, Željko Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2780	Thank you, Mr. President. So, fellow Milosevic, you said in your statement that according to the economic moment, the Parliament corrected the rights of parliamentary representatives. I don't think that's true because the Parliament never led when it was better times it didn't raise its rights, and this was just one move that wanted to ease the dissatisfaction of the citizens. In this direction, I also see this current proposal that you have debated and in which it measured the quality of the work of parliamentary representatives present. Well, then I'll notice one thing, that fellow Parliament Speaker Mr. Petrov hasn't spent 10% of his time since the President of the Parliament was in this House's pay box, so I guess he should get 10% of his salary because he probably didn't work. On the other hand, a colleague of Pernar who did his job as some parliamentary representatives in four years wouldn't have to come to work at all. Here's a real picture of this proposal, and actually the discrepancy of this proposal is actually what it is, and that's a cheap collection of political points. In fact, it would be best for everyone to have salaries unless they come to work and carry out their duties as a parliamentary representative in those amounts that they promised voters in a pre-election campaign in a specific case for the legislator of this law, so the MOST option is to remind the 9999 kuna. Put it on the table so we can all have that kind of pay. I'll raise my hand first. I said I'd volunteer as mayor of the city of Djurjevac and I was 40 months volunteer I didn't receive a single kuna of wages, travel expenses, or anything. Be principled when you make a suggestion like this. Place your salary on the 9999 kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2781	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2782	Dear colleague Lackovic, here I will also commend you if you have been a volunteer for 40 months and have not received any travel expenses. The fact is, I don't want to pass on to you right now, but that a large number of volunteers have received a large amount of generous volunteer fees, I'm guessing it's not your case. What I was saying in my presentation was that I wanted to clearly remind myself of history, so that we also had the Parliament's decisions to reduce the rights of parliamentary deputies and government decisions to reduce, so they paid all the state officials, and so also to parliamentarians without any pulsism, but just as a reminder of one fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2783	Thank you, too. The next club is the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community and the Honorable Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2784	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of Representatives in the Croatian Assembly and the Proposer has already said in fact what is the basic objective and what are the basic objectives, which is actually the rise of the dignity of the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Parliament is the cornerstone of Croatian statehood and the unquestionable fact is that Parliament's reputation is at a very low level and it is especially painful to see today actually that politics as an activity has lost its place in society and indeed negative views on everything we do. This law in this context is good because we are at the beginning of the term of office. He's probably four years ahead of us if there's no choice or anything like that again. In those four years we can do a lot of things, we can change perception, we can change practices. And that's why I think it's welcome that this bill is ahead of us because it opens up this particular topic that can reflect on all of this. Is the key problem with the reputation of the Croatian Parliament exactly what is defined in this article. I don't think so. What is important for the reputation of the Croatian Parliament is the product that we produce and what kind of product comes out. We make laws like that. We make laws, we are legislators and those laws when they come out of this House they must be quality, they must be good. They must encourage the fact that the situation in society is better, that our economy is moving forward, that we create better conditions for the economy, for the work of entrepreneurs, for the work of craftsmen. They must be such that young people can get a job, that we can reduce the public debt, that we can increase the social gross product, and that is only possible if we make good laws, if we ask the executive to take good measures, if we give them good conclusions on reports that we will have on the agenda. Now in order for us to pass good laws, we need to be in the assembly, that's one prerequisite. We don't all have to be, but we need to be. Discussions need to be quality, content, full of quality proposals. It is necessary that, when we discuss, we do not come out of the topic that is ahead of us, not to use the Assembly speaker as some kind of estranged stage, but to really discuss in a tolerated spirit with arguments, with good suggestions and after that we will bring quality and good laws. And there's a great responsibility that we all carry, and by that people will appreciate us. Not by how many times we talked, because what someone said, someone can often say but actually without content, without a concrete proposal, and actually such a debate won't bring anything. This debate that we've been having here today, I don't think it's going to contribute to Parliament's reputation, because I have the impression that the colleagues who have proposed this bill as if they were on the defendant's bench, and they've actually given us the theme of reassembly, to see in these four years that are ahead of us how to make this Parliament's work better. I have to admit this is an article that the law has offered. I am convinced that he will also experience a substantial and nomotechnical change for a second reading. There's a lot of misunderstanding. In the introduction, Proposer Podolnjak explained comparative practices and from these practices it seems to me, in fact, personally how little I understood that Polish model I was somehow mixed up with German rather than what was proposed here. But the meaning of this, in my opinion, is not in some great penalization, but the point is actually to improve our democratic practice and culture and to make certain sanctions feel what I think is possible if we change the methodology of actually preparing a legal proposal for a second reading. I suggest that you include colleagues before the meaning of the second reading in the work on this law to include all clubs, to all give constructive opinions, means not only critics but also to make concrete proposals. Here's a colleague of Souch's answer, you've made a concrete proposal regarding these cards. I mean, I don't mind being measured, and how many words we've said, how long we've been here and how long we've been at the bar, let us measure by all the criteria. But the basic and key criteria are actually the quality of what we're going to say here, what we're going to suggest here, what we're going to improve some law that's going to produce tomorrow something good in society. I think that's the key. And that can only be contributed to a constructive debate that will be held here. I agree with fellow Milosevic, who has made it clear here that the working relationship of the parliamentary representative is not a classical working relationship. It's something much bigger and wider than that. Because we and when we are in society and when we are in the cafe we are parliamentary representatives and we also have to work as such on the dignity of this Croatian Assembly. And we are actually in one way how to paint a working relationship with the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, they are our employers and they measure us as we will be. And that's why I'm glad, regardless of the numerous criticisms. It is clear that this article will undergo quite certain changes and we can also change the concept until the second reading of all of this, but I think it is welcome to ask ourselves why the reputation of this foundation of Croatian statehood has fallen so low, but which is why the reputation of us who deal with politics is equally low in society. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2785	Thank you very much. There aren't any replicas. ... I mean, I'm letting go otherwise but I'd be begging you a replica must be during exposure. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Nothing. Here you go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Then I didn't see, I don't know they didn't see any colleagues, but good.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2786	She was, but you were covered, so you couldn't see. In short, I would like to say on behalf of the promoter that we appreciate the good will of our colleagues, Bosnjakovic, who spoke on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. And I want to say that as surely as he has indicated this short proposed law and this short article will experience certainly one more quality elaborate and based on what we will hear today or have already heard in this debate. And of course I would like to say in person both now and when I can say at this moment and as the new chairman of the Committee on the Constitution that I will try to make this provision as high as possible and to find as much consensus as possible in this Croatian Parliament when we get to the second reading of this proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2787	Thank you too, colleague Podolnjak. So, there's still a lot of debates, two of them by the clubs and the rest of them are individual. Since we planned to work around 5:00 today if you're okay here, I suggest we still hear two debates on the replicated clubs that will last a little less than 17 hours and continue on Wednesday at 9.30 p.m. with individual debates. ... We'll take his word then. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Then we move on now. So HNS Representatives' Club, Goran Beus Richembergh, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2788	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues in such laws, it is very important that the debate in the Assembly be as open and detailed as possible. I'd say more well-intentioned, more open. First of all, you have to ask the question of what the law's intensity is. I think it is not bad and that the promoter has come from a single premise that such a solution will improve the dignity of the Croatian Parliament. But I also think it didn't work out. He has succeeded so much as is the reason for the debate in which different sides can be heard, different views and that this can be one conditionally said brainstorming about the situation in which we have found ourselves as an institution, the most important institution in the history of this people and the most important to the constitutional determination of the hierarchy of institutions as the legislative and most political body in the state. The problem of the Croatian Assembly is mostly in the Parliament itself. In MPs and MPs and in their conduct, in charge of a public spoken word. Likewise, in relation to the Parliament and the Government, because in the nature of things, every government as an executive authority seeks to contain the space that Parliament has, or extend, its space. It is simply the nature of the executive authority to try and, if possible, manage to impose itself as a leader. The problem of the Croatian Parliament was also generated in those times when the Croatian Parliament became the voting machine of the government. When he stopped being the initiator of the law, when he stopped being a quality critic of the legal proposals from the government rather than without any criticism and any further he began to accept everything that came from the government, and to the lowest extent possible he reduced the number of his own legal initiatives, then the Croatian Parliament brought itself into this situation so that he could be told everything and that a lot of what was said stood for him. Of course, what my colleague Bosnjakovic said absolutely stands. What the Croatian Parliament produces are laws, decisions, I don't remember the last time we adopted a resolution or declaration, it's also a bad habit because Parliament can make very important political views through declarations and resolutions and order to society and social actors very important messages. So, by passing those laws, were we entirely consistent? We didn't. In the last few years, we've been able to change the same law seven, eight times in a calendar year. Of course, we've always blamed the government because it's the one that's been coming with the changes every little bit, but we're taking the blame because we're making a decision about whether it's gonna be accepted or not. And that is why it is extremely important for our Committee on Law but also for the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system as I would say two let's be equal, but certainly almost the most important two working bodies of the Croatian Parliament are well-accompanied, to be awake and to represent in this sense the authority beyond which they will not be able to work in the legislation of what is the Government's will. In government, he became an office for legislation, led by Marian Pross, and I am very happy to mention that name because the older ones remember him, who could not pass any single legislative proposal at the government's session, and that before that he had not been shaken in every way possible to see whether he was in accordance with the Constitution, whether he was in accordance with the other regulations, whether he was written in writing and whether he deserved to go to the Parliament. Those were golden times. Today, not today, but the last seven, eight years from the government sometimes come to us with documents that we find to be nomotechnically incorrect, that they're illiterate and we let them go again. That's where we fell for our exams. Next important question, can the Croatian Parliament be consistent on the one hand and on the other hand have an authentic type of authority in quality if his working bodies do not serve anything? We do not have a provision that obliges as in some other parliaments that only what the home working body supported can come to the plenary session. So what the parent’s working body is against can also come about, and what the parent’s working body did not talk about at all, and then the question arises as to what it is for. Is that some kind of decoration, a game? Isn't the logic the other way around, that what doesn't pass the parent working body where people who know the most about the thematic framework that this working body deals with so that something like that shouldn't come in front of the Croatian Parliament at all? That would relieve our debates, reduce the divorce space, for endless replicas. We replicate what makes sense and what doesn't, we give each other cream. Of course, it is part of parliamentary practice and it is not a bad part of parliamentary practice if it serves to improve the whole parliamentary process. But if it's only for hours to talk to me and tell each other something that's pointless just to hear the color of your voice, to beat up some statistic, so that the media is more perceptive than that and the hook, it's a weak job. If we are talking about Parliament's dignity, then we must first of all understand the fundamental points of parliamentaryism. We can't come from elementary school, high school and from the university in the Croatian Parliament and try to impose the way that institution works here. Neither is this cathedral, nor are we students, nor is he a professor here. It is equally difficult to convey the moments and ways of functioning of some other institutions. I know we've been burdened with some previous life, we've been working in the real sector, an NGO at a school in another institution, but let's not try to rephrase the way we work here. It's not good because it's not useful. The Croatian Parliament is a place to speak. Restraining the space of freedom of speech is not good. But you need to concentrate on what it's about. This is the arena, this is a political arena, there is no other as efficient as the Croatian Assembly in which it is not allowed but desirable to hear from different sides of different cancers different opinions and ideas. Here, in fact, ideas must be conflicted, confrontated because conflict creates a new value, not from monotonic or monotonic speaking. There's one part of the people who naively believes that we should all be brothers and sisters holding hands here, say the same thing and think the same thing, but then we shouldn't be 151 but only one. Here we should speak, preferably with the understanding of what is said as much as possible, but not too much and not too much. And it's too much every time we talk about something that has nothing to do with what's on the agenda. So we made ourselves a hat that's on our heads now, a lot of funny ones, so they're laughing at us. But if we want to talk about dignity, we must not go into the boundaries of freedom that voters have set for them with their vote. Let us try to reverse logic, which we can make the MP, the MP, this House understands as a serious place and encourage it, encourage it to be quality, engaged, proactive and courageous in carrying out its thinking. By 1947, there was a provision in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament that the communists had cast out. It said that a representative could not read his speech, he could only quote but not read it. It's out. Many others, meanwhile, have planted themselves in the Croatian Parliament, and it has become a technical place where they say what others write to them and others say what they think of, and then it looks like a cabbage. But if we want to discipline the representatives above all, the club presidents are invited, and the propo of what Beljak has proposed today they are also paid to discipline the members of their clubs, to warn them of both the Rules of Procedure and the good customs and the attitudes of parliamentaryism and their obligations. Two times ago, it was like a good day that most of the ruling coalition came only on Fridays. You couldn't see them any other day but only on Friday. I called them Fridays. When you see Perica Bukic at the House's door, you don't need to look at your calendar, it's Friday, he never showed up here on the second day. And another colleague. That's how the stratification of strength was set up. I was making fun of it because I wanted those people to come and more often, some people can't every day. But I ask you, I ask the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament, in an extended composition, so the club presidents will answer me what and when we will do, how much we will work daily, what we will talk about tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, when we will vote. Then, do MPs have working conditions? At the same time, why are meetings of different working bodies in which we are members and in one and the other, so it is physically impossible to be in two places at once. And secondly, those who sit here and keep quiet will be honored no matter what they won't say, which we won't hear their sound trail or idea, will leave nothing behind, but nothing will happen to them, they'll be the tower. Unfortunately, there were colleagues and colleagues who managed to stay in the Croatian Parliament without hearing their voice, so you don't even know what the color of that voice is, and you don't know what they're called, because you've never even communicated with them. But we can't kill an entire cow because of that steak, it's a minority. The vast majority of their work is doing well and knowingly. But if we knew that we were working at the Croatian Parliament in the morning from 9:30 p.m. to 3, if we knew what days we were doing, if we knew when there was going to be a vote, if we knew what topics we were going to discuss next week, we could prepare ourselves, we could prepare and plan all our other obligations, everything would look different. And like this, Friday 15.50 was or little less than that, we know we'll start with this debate on Wednesday. Yesterday, at this time, we found out what we were going to discuss this morning. Neither do you have time to prepare, nor can you consult assistants if you have them, colleagues who know more than you do. You can't consult anyone in the sector that's a particular topic. That's no way to work. And that's something the Croatian Parliament Presidency has to decide on, that beats the president. Therefore, many of these problems that generate our poor perception of the public can be solved by the complex decisions of the Croatian Parliament Presidency. As far as this provision is concerned, as defined, it's quite arbitral. And she puts if you ask me the President of the Croatian Parliament in a very awkward situation, that he be an arbiter, but not only that, but also to be an accountant, to record when someone comes, to measure whether it was justifiable or not. And the criteria set out like this suggest that he can approve the same thing as justifiable to one another, so for the same thing he can approve, he can define as unwarranted. Let's not bring the President of the Croatian Parliament into that position, it's not his job, he can't be a director or an accountant here. He's a representative of this house. Why isn't he sitting here? Someone says 10%. Well the work of the President of the Croatian Parliament is very complex, it is another person in the state nominally speaking. If the President of the Republic dies, God forbid, he's the one who runs this country. So what do you think can be run by a state only here if you're sitting for 10 or 12 hours in this bench? Of course he can't. That's hundreds and hundreds of other obligations. And when President Petrov said he would spend weekends in Metkovic, it was known in advance that it was impossible because very many protocol and other obligations happen precisely on weekends. But that applies to many of us. There is no working time for me that will end my current discussion. Today's working hours lasts me till 22 hours as far as I can... It's probably a lot of you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder Jandroković: Comrade Beus Richembergh time is up, unfortunately.]] I apologize, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2789	Thank you. We have one replica. It's an esteemed colleague, Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2790	My esteemed colleague, Mr. Beus Richembergh, I have listened to your testimony and there is one thing that impressed me with you, you said that MPs should be held accountable for the spoken word. And, well, you're the one who called me a Russian spy in the yellow press. Now, imagine if I were to call someone, say this gentleman here, I'm sorry, I don't know what you're calling yourself, colleague Varda, an English, British spy or if I called Mr. Maras, let's say, I don't know whose he would be, a Canadian spy or, say, Mr. Grumoy that he's a Herzegovian spy working for their secret service or I don't know, here's someone from the HDZ that's on the CIA payroll, etc. And that's unserious, everyone would say, and you see, you speak as a responsibility for a spoken word, and you say things so easily. That's what we wanted to say. Start by yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2791	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2792	We're getting older. The old people called the paper a lie. And he says here's 10 dinars buy me one lie. So if I, my dear colleague Pernar, were to deny or confirm everything the papers have written about me, then you would have spent 4.5 lives. You and the day today when you Google my name comes first to you a text saying, among other things, that all the shit they wrote about me was confirmed by my mother. And she lay cold in her grave for eight years. So what you're saying as an administrative speech now was an irregular speech. So someone else put that in my mouth. And you've been doing it for days, actually being just like that newspaper. You call them the yellow press, but you, as an agent, turned yellow in the meantime. I'm not going to stop you because I don't think I can fix the wrong drins. But if that's what you're saying, I said you're a Russian lobbyist who hangs out with Russian intelligence. I can't tell you any more than that. And you rightly or wrongly were yellow or like me orange from the CNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2793	Thank you very much. Next up is the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party and distinguished colleague Kreso Beljak who is not here and loses his right to debate. ... Yeah, so we can move on? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You got it. Okay. We're a little fast. Gordan Maras, no colleagues, loses his right to debate. But Arsen Bauk is here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2794	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So first of all, the name of the law. The law is called about obligations and rights or so by representatives in the Croatian Parliament and in 20 and some articles as far as this law has, not a single obligation is mentioned but only rights. The word pretends, that's where I greened them 30 times. So it would be good to make a new law in the second reading, I think the Rules of Procedure also allow, for example, Article 20 of the current law to read, "The MP shall be provided according to the possibilities and order of parliamentary duties set out in Article 12." The Law on Obligations and Rights of State Officials Workplace in the Croatian Assembly and the MP elected to the election unit in the county home" which is the bay the way that was abolished 15 years ago. So there's this need for this law to be done thoroughly. Then Article 18 comes after Article 8 as nine articles of that law have been put out of force in the meantime. So this is the first proposal to propose that the whole new Law on Obligations and Rights of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament be made, where this one article we speak would be the only obligation that is stated in that law, which is to be in the Assembly one day or someone will sanction us. As for the so-called so-called. The integrity of the institution, the Croatian Parliament regularly goes through the worst in these surveys but it is also logical for me. Because unlike the government or the president of the state where the representatives of one political option or coalition in the Assembly are representatives of all political options or coalitions and then citizens misjudge the Parliament for those of others. Because when you're in government or president, at least those who are on that political side are well rated, and these others are misjudged. And as for the Council, our voters misjudged him because of these HDZ or MOST voters will misjudge him because of us here, harassing everyone else and talking. So I wouldn't worry too much about it, I think it's natural and very evidenceable why it is. However, it is not a problem that there are such low grades, so I also said this morning in one of the replicates of the Croatian Parliament that we, having no voting quorum in the 7th session, were always the voting quorum, in the 6th session also, except at the end when they started to leave the sinking ship, in the 5th meeting of the Parliament there was also no problem with the quorum, and in the 4th session there was a problem that from 2000 to 2003 because the geniuses from my party had thought that after every debated vote law. And then it was supposed to be in Parliament all the time, and it was always going to be a quorum, when someone went on the official trip, there would be a political crisis because of it. And then it still moved to go, to go one day a week. Therefore, it was an idea that ended, at that time it was a large majority but it stood as it went near the end of the Parliament. Therefore, the regulation that sanctions are imposed only because of the failure to attend parliament on the day of the vote is not good for me. I will accept what Mr. Simic and Mr. Petrov said even though this Mr. Podolnjak has tempered a little bit and that is that it will not sanction the attempt to obstruct the quorum legitimately by the opposition. But if there's a certain sanctioning going on, it's a good thing it's going to be over this law firm, and then we do it right. So from Tuesday, when the boards, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, then again Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, and then for each of those days when you don't come in one day less. And then that would be, that would be correct sanctioning. Well, if you're a sick excuse. If you go on the official road travel order, if you go somewhere else sacrifice those 150 kunas because I don't see what you would do except the official route and medical confirmation which would still be a reason to justify that absence. So these 1,500 kunas, the maximum amount of that cobwebs will somehow survive, and that would be the most correct proposal. This is really the impression that it is only done to secure the quorum in the vote. Mr. Vice President, all you can do is ask your colleagues behind me not to disturb me, a little bit, unfocus me. It's real. So as far as sanctions are concerned, my proposal is that they go to all the days when the Croatian Parliament works and is prescribed, so that everyone must be there at the entrance to the Assembly with their card whine when they come and when they leave and who does not come unwarranted hour 150 kuna. In one month, it's so expensive. Of course, there is one problem, and that is that those who are mayors at the same time as the MPs will be a little harder to handle. But okay, that's how they chose. Then let them take care of it. Otherwise, I politically estimate that that's why you went with this mild proposal because you couldn't agree with your partners because they have the same number of mayors who are also parliamentary representatives. As far as working conditions are concerned, it would not be bad if indeed, if MPs of the Parliament were given the right to their table, seat and computer in the Croatian Parliament, in this building, and that the professional services of which I normally stood in their defense in order to prioritize them to get these places on Demetrov Street. Since it is very clear that this law in this form will not welcome another reading, i.e. that it will experience a thorough remont for a second reading there is no need to look more closely at the details of the proposal, therefore on the details of this particular proposal. I think it would be good for the Proposer to be the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system in accordance with one of the Rules of Procedures. Professor Podolnjak is at his head, therefore, and in that case he could have the initiative to, therefore, pass the law. However, as MOST's representative club proposed today, it has shown a slight lack of confidence in the government's ability to make the executive law right, then I don't know if this proposal will fall on fertile soil. So let's conclude. The MP cannot be punished for voting in the Croatian Parliament, so he can probably not be punished for not voting in the Croatian Parliament either. If there's a penalty for unhappiness, and we can discuss what it's not like. But let's just say that when it's a assembly session or when it's a session of a committee that you're a member of, at least it's work to come to that session or to a committee session or to a plenary session and to participate or not to participate in the debate. If, then, we define it as work, in this case, it is also necessary to prescribe for that part sanctions which would be one diary up to ten in the representative's bed and not only determine that the work is coming to the vote. Because that actually makes it easier for the heads of parliamentary majority's parliamentary clubs to collect quorums on Friday. So I wouldn't make it so easy for them. I propose that if they decide on sanctions, let them agree with their coalition partners, let them agree with the opposition, but that they should then be prescribed for each day when Parliament is working and not just for the vote and that this applies to all MPs equally. And also if it does not accept that it at least makes it more clear that it will not sanction an opposition which, by legitimately destroying the quorum, is trying to prevent certain laws that would otherwise be voted on that they are in the hall, and in their opinion, are harmful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2795	We have two replicas. He's the first respected colleague of Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2796	Comrade Bauk, this model that you are talking about when it would be a little better worked out would in fact remind you very much of a model that works in the European Parliament where MPs have one fixed salary and are being charged with the daily arrival of each session, i.e. the continuing of that daily daily session. However, I would like to ask you a question since you are a mathematician. Therefore, this bill assumes financial severance from the asset of a representative’s flat-rate agent. It is 1500 kuna, and it is designed to cover the costs of representatives to work on the ground, so with a voter base. Now, you're punishing him by taking away his resources to work on the ground because he was in the field under a. And b, if the month is on average 4 Fridays, and you don't come to 4 votes for how much money it is and can it fit into one representative's break in a month, or maybe it will be alimony from the cobwebs next month. How does that work? It would take these things a little bit more serious to define. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2797	Now let me make a joke and you get a bullet on the fourth of Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2798	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The first question was about the European Parliament. Yes, it was also an inspiration for me to say this because I was recently in the European Parliament. So if it works there, maybe it can work here. I don't mind. I try to come to all the sessions. I even try to call every day, but here I think if I don't, I think my day is ruined. But it doesn't matter. As for this logical inversion that you said you would be deprived of the resources to work in the field because of what you were in the field. I'd say it like this. You will be deprived of the resources to work on the ground when you were not supposed to be on the ground, and you were on the ground because at the moment you were on the ground you should have been in the Assembly so that you would not be deprived of the funds for it when you were on the ground, and you could be on the ground. Is that better? And as for these mathematical settings, I will comfort you. So, the moon might have four Fridays... Slowly, the month has 4 Fridays and the year has 52 Fridays times 3 that's 156 diaries that you can lose if you vote every Friday and you don't vote every Friday because according to the Constitution, the Parliament doesn't sit and one how many 15s, 20 Fridays, so when you reject these 150, you get to the 120 diaries you have in your bag. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So here's the thing: I don't think there's a single Friday extra in that sense if I've been able to count it well.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2799	Thank you very much. Next replica, distinguished colleague Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2800	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. When you very plastically explained how justified absences should be justified in the Croatian Parliament, you said that for the official trip you would bring a simple travel order, that you would bring an apology for the illness. However, what I want to ask you is, I still don't understand it after here all day's debate is how to reconcile two rights. So MPs under certain laws have certain incompatible duties that may not be carried out during the parliamentary term, however, to be a council member in the representative body of the unit of local or regional self-government or mayor, the mayor of the municipality or city is simply allowed, this is not an incompatible duty with the duties of the Assembly representative. Councilors in the city councils, in municipal councils, in the county councils are only allowed not at that time while receiving the parliamentary salary should not receive council fees. They have to volunteer. Now, how knowingly do we behave as mayors or mayors, councilors and councilors if they happen on Fridays or if we punish the absence of representatives every day in Parliament not only on Fridays, how do we reconcile those two rights when we haven't in any way brought some incompatible duties together? These are still duties that can behave in parallel. And now some mayor, some mayor, some councillors, if they have an obligation on Fridays to citizens who have also chosen to pay for their foams for it. How do you determine the level of priorities? What's more important at that point?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2801	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2802	I have already said in my individual debate that since I expect this law to experience a certain remont for a second reading that I will not analyse each provision more in detail but one of the things that should be foreseen is that under a reasonable absence, work in the representative body of the local self-government unit is also required to attend it as well as the mayor who, under the Law on Local Self-Government, is required to attend. That's one possibility. And another possibility is that we go after that Grunfo guy who gets lost. So, if you're going to be at a council meeting, then you're going to be sanctioned in the House and you won't be rewarded for being at a council meeting because the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest prevents you from getting a council fee. In this case, in my view, the solution would be that, with respect to all these possible justifications mentioned there other than party meetings, it should also be stated that the work of the representative bodies of the local and regional self-government units should also be added, given that these duties under one of the laws are not incompatible with the duties of the parliamentary representative. That would probably be a solution if it were to go in terms of sanctioning. Unless in each other, incompatibility and these duties are defined, such as for the mayors. And the county thing is interesting. So that incompatibility was because the mayors were also representatives of the Office of State Administration in the counties. When the state administration system changed in 2001, the mayors became exclusively regional self-government officials but remained incompatibility. Although, for example, the mayor of Split has much more obligations than the Split-Dalmatia or Viriti-Podravski mayor but so remained in the law by chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2803	We're moving on to further discussions of the individual. Dear colleague Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2804	Thank you, Chairman. Well, I'd just like to point out that there's a reason why certain people don't come to Parliament sessions. This reason is, in fact, simple nature or simple nature, a large part of people simply have nothing to say. That's what we're all witnessing. There are people who do not appear once for a word or appear less than 5 times during the meeting of 4 years in the Assembly. The public doesn't even know them. He told me in his day, Sincic, he said to me that Pernar had people in the Parliament who said that tomorrow nobody would even know someone was missing, or that he was missing because he was not simply or involved in the debates or was in the Parliament, he came only to vote when nothing was actually being debated. He just came to raise his hand. How he raised his hand and left. Such behavior is enough let's say so often. Now, the question arises whether the MOST proposal will solve the essential problem, and the fundamental problem is not whether people, it is not the main problem for us in the Assembly whether people come to meetings or not but rather the key issue of what decisions MPs make. It means whether their decisions will work in a way that prices of bread and milk fall and oil and sugar or the currents fall or I don't know what they're going to grow. Whether it means people after all these reforms let's say we live better or worse. Unlike my colleague, Bunjec, from my Club of Representatives, he believes that MPs should be punished. But I'm kind of the most active, which I may be, and the hard part of my colleagues here, I don't think I would because I don't see any use for these people. So they could do instead of these chairs, empty ones, for example. Now, from HDZ, just maybe four people here, we could put dolls on them instead, and they could stand there nice and no one would notice that we're missing them. This is what someone said that the role of a parliamentary representative differs from other jobs that a person can perform. In my opinion, I'm going to go back to that subject I was explaining when we talked about election law. Whether they come or not to the sessions, no matter how many MPs are elected here, we have a basic problem with what these MPs, or we as advocates, are not the ones who make decisions. So decisions are made outside, we're only here, we saw when Prime Minister Plenkovic came in. So we've come here maltenes as if we've come to a concert, Mr. Plenkovic has performed or some magicians, he's performed what he's been taught in Brussels, and we haven't voted on what they've decided there, I don't believe he actually voted in the essence of voting, so I just don't see the role of MPs as, or I don't see them coming or not to work as something that would be crucial. Because basically even though they are, I don't know at the HDZ Club 50 and they all think the same thing. And now they would, let's say, imagine 50 of them coming up after each other for discussion and repeating the same story, so I think the public would just go crazy, wouldn't be looking at Parliament's sessions because the point of why people are watching the Parliament is to hear different opinions, to hear, 'let's say conflicting opinions, opinions that are conflicting. Because if there's no conflict, let's say the polemics between me and Mr. Grumoia, or let's say Mr. Bulj doesn't answer for the lines, etc., or Mr. Maras or Mr. Bauk, imagine that we all agree here, that we all agree on what it would be, at all, the sense of watching these, as I would say the session, would simply make them boring. Basically, although the MPs aren't coming, it's clear that there are actually five groups in this assembly. It means SDP and HNS, we from the Living Wall who express our views, MOST, HDZ and some minority, sometimes colleague Lackovic, he is from Bandic's list. But what I'm saying is, although we're not around here much, there's always a representative of each party, and it actually means that even though we're gone, 151 is always a debate alive and real. I would also like to say that in my opinion MPs should be forced to come to the debates rather than to the vote because the debates are really crucial, because all through these discussions that we have here where we share opinions they can hear arguments pro et contra, for and against. Like this, what's going on? They don't have to come to the debate, they're actually forced to be, what? The voting machine, to raise your hands. And did they participate in the debate, Mr. Jandrokovic? No, they're not. So now they're gone. And now imagine, they're probably not even reading, it's standing there on their tables, what they're going to vote on, and they're not even interested in what they're talking about, their only rule out role is that in the capacity of the parliamentary majority they appear here on the day of the vote and raise their hand. And now, the purpose of this measure of forcing people to come on Fridays is actually to secure the quorum rather than discuss it. Because watch this, here's a question for you, is the public interested in the voting process itself, how are we going to push buttons here, or are they more interested in the debate? Well, to me, the debate itself is an essential thing, because without a debate, the vote alone doesn't have that much weight. Or the topics we encourage are crucial to everyone. On this occasion, I must point out one more thing, and it is now your chairmanship that I feel that I was wrong when I did not vote for you as Vice President of the Parliament because from what I have seen you are the correctest chairman I have ever seen. Not a single time you had rudely approached any MP, you allowed everyone to say until the end and no conflict while you were sitting in that chair didn't exist. And I believe, i.e. The next time you vote, I'll vote for you. That's what I wanted to tell you. And more or less, that's all I have to observe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2805	I'd have to give you a breach of the Rules of Procedure right now because you didn't talk about the subject, but after this, there's no way. Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. There are no replicas, we do not have two individual discussions now, two colleagues Branimir Glavas and Domagoj Hajdukovic. Well, then we'll continue with our esteemed colleague, Predrag Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2806	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here at the end of this day and at the end of this debate, I must say that I am very personal, very kind to the representatives of the club MOST Independent Lists, but today it is two weeks of our work in the Croatian Parliament and at the end of the day when we would say what we have done for these two weeks and we are chosen to make a improvement for our citizens. The result would unfortunately be zero. Today's debate would be zero because I don't know which one of us is willing to say that he even earned a living because we were discussing ourselves. The guarantees requested by MOST at the start of forming power with HDZ, I received them well on purpose and all of them are actually well-intentioned. But over these two weeks when you look at some of those laws that I still have a positive opinion on, but look, HRT, when we cut the subscription, it interests people who aren't interested in watching a nonstop religious and patriotic program, we don't know when it's going to be. Those electoral laws will apply after 20 years, local penalties will fall in the Constitutional Court, the Economic Belt, and this is how Indonesian fishermen cannot fish with us and those to whom the law should apply, Italians, since we are in the EU they will continue to fish. The best law that we have discussed, and which I strongly support, is the Executive Act, however, also if it is passed quickly, over the knee, it has brought in a million unknowns and I hope that it will still be completed because, here I have written an example, my colleague Demetlika was talking about someone who has 100 apartments in Istria but has loaded on bail, he collects apartments and guarantees pay for loans. So there is, frankly, with this law that we've been talking about all day, it's really completely populist and absolutely brings nothing, even a colleague of Bosnjakovic tried to, to colleagues from MOST, I've experienced it so, if I've been wronged, I apologized, in gloves to explain that these things can't be brought in like that. So first of all, little children don't work in this House. What's going to be done about coming to the vote, not coming, is really totally incomplete and it's really not even done in primary school. As fellow Richembergh said, he's here on the fourth term but I'll give you an example. Last term I was here every day but not once did I blink the card because I find it humiliating for me, the citizens of this country chose me and I have a responsibility to them and my card won't help me justify my existence here or not. What Mr. Sauch said, I waited all day to explain to him, so these cards, they used to be, older colleagues know, before they were the keys. Why aren't they staying here and taking them home? Because half the MPs didn't even know how to turn the keys correctly and the other half or one good part didn't bring them to the vote, so the frog that heard and sat there that Friday when the key stayed in his apartment or worse if he lived somewhere outside of Zagreb, who knows where he had the key, which is why that part... I want to say that, personally, I am against this law, I am completely against this law because for me, my voters, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, they are my law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if they see that I have not done anything for them in this congregation, for those who have chosen me and voted, in the next term they will simply not choose me, and I will be punished. And just in the end, and I'd like to say the same thing, look at the time I'm talking, so most of the MPs, I'm going to touch this topic that I find very interesting. So you're saying, most of you, you have the right to do it, I'm just saying it as one remark, until the end of what you're saying, and even when you see that you have 30 seconds left to say and you're selling golf diesel because there's still really 30 seconds left and there's something you can say. Can't you say in a few minutes everything you want to say that it's content, but it's trying, trying to get the chairman to warn you? And at the end when they asked, someone asked from their colleagues what would happen to this if we went over this bed and the fines, we're going to have to use what the teleopers are doing, so anything you don't spend this month can be transferred to next month, so here's what's left. So once again personally, I am absolutely against this law. I know the parliamentary deputies are supposed to come but it's on their conscience, there's 150 people here, if they were pretentious they could tell the best of us, so from the citizens of the Republic elected 150 people and if someone had to sign me up, write down whether I came to Parliament today or not, then it's really pathetic. And as for justification, I'll end up with this, last sentence, so look, there are no 120 colleagues here, half of them are doctors, they'll write themselves a story about why they weren't here today, and these others are good with them, so they'll do the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2807	We also have one replica. Dear Representative Maria Puh. Are you sitting somewhere else, or? Because I've been told by someone else's name, but we know you're Mrs. Maria Puh. [[Intruder: No.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2808	Here, thank you. I would just like to relate to Mr. Matic about our responsibility to the voters who chose us. So it says here that the President of the Parliament will tell us when we can get an apology if we're not here and when we're not. But I know from my experience, many of my voters, meaning various associations, municipalities, cities, we each get a few invitations each week that are unfortunately the time to hold various events are sometimes, in collapsing with the sessions themselves when we have to be there. I'd just like to know why the President of the Parliament is going to decide whether or not it's more important for me to be in the field with my people who really expect me to be there for them and give them support, or if it's going to be more important to me here in the Parliament. I think that it also needs to think very carefully about these criteria and that some way is known and not that it will be determined on an arbitrary basis who will get permission that day can go on its own ground and amongst its people and who will not get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2809	Next debate, distinguished colleague Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2810	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. What I would like to say at the outset is that when we look at some rights and obligations of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, then we see that MPs have the right to pay, the right to a representative's fee of 1,500 kuna, the right to pay after the end of the term of office which is up until then, and is still 6+6, the right to retire, the work space in the Croatian Parliament, in accordance with the possibilities, the right to accommodation in Zagreb with the compensation for a separate life of 1000 kuna and life insurance and the right to compensation for monthly transport costs. Meanwhile, in the previous 3 years, precisely because citizens are angry and think that MPs enjoy certain privileges that are not in line with the standard that most Croatian citizens live, this Croatian Parliament has abolished some of the so-called so-called Croatian Parliament. Parliament privileges. So, for example, in 2013, it was abolished, the preferential pensions were abolished, the institute of privileged parliamentary pensions. Now if you ask citizens if they know that it is one of the privileges that has been lifted, that is, the rights of the representatives most of them will say that they do not know and those who know if you are asking them if their trust in us is as an institution, whether it is easier for them because this one is abolished, we can say an unfair privilege, or the right to account differently for our pensions and otherwise for all other citizens. I don't think anything has changed significantly since then in the perception of Croatian citizens about parliamentary deputies. In the meantime, the compensation for a separate life has also been abolished in months when the Croatian Parliament is no longer sitting, so MPs no longer receive compensation for a separate life of 1000 kuna in those months when we do not work or in the months between, until the establishment of a new Croatian Parliament. And a few days ago we debated in this Croatian Parliament to abolish another right and to reduce the right of MPs, it is the right to receive full salary after the end of the parliamentary term so that no matter how much they were in the Assembly, whether it is a year, two, three or four have the right to use six months of full salary and then six months of half the salary after that than we said that we would divide it into 6+6 and 3+3 respectively. Now we move on, we're going towards actually cutting our own rights, which is fine, we're going to start and punish ourselves. Although when we look at the rights and responsibilities of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, in which we were in some way all prepared when we agreed, we signed a statement that we accept the candidacy that we must, or should participate in the meetings of the Parliament, discuss and vote on them, submit proposals, ask questions. It also states in Article 20 of the Rules of Procedure that the representative confirms his arrival in the Assembly of Representatives' Cards, by electronic means and that coming to the Assembly is also considered to be the participation of representatives in the work of working bodies, the travel of MPs under the approval of the President of the Assembly and the obligation to the club of representatives. I don't really know how much this proposal is in the spirit of punishing MPs just because they won't take part in the vote. I don't think it's a good thing that even after today, we haven't heard a clear and decidated view of what punishment will actually apply to, whether not to participate in Friday's vote or not to join the Croatian Parliament building on Fridays. Because the Rules of Procedure clearly defines how we register, which means our entry into the Parliament and what our work means. So it's not just this assembly where the plenary session takes place. I think it would be good to see what you actually meant by that. Will staying in Parliament, the fact that we're in Parliament go unpunished if we're in a bar, if we're at a Parliament restaurant, if we're at our club, we're doing something, if we're not here at... I don't think it's good that after a few hours, we didn't get an answer to this simple question, which is actually what the sanctions are about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If this sanction applies to what you have said, Mr. Podolnjak, on behalf of the promoter here, and what is in particular contrary to what Mr. Petrov said, I must personally express my disdain because I do not think it is right to punish someone who came to work that day and did not approach the vote. Don't approach the vote, destroying the quorum is a legitimate way of pressure, showing dissatisfaction, dissatisfaction, if you want even obstructions not to pass certain laws that we consider harmful. Well, we had a situation like that. Four months ago, you wanted to charge HDZ with an urgent reception for those patients, patients who were estimated not to be urgent at that time, you wanted to give through this package of laws certain additional charges on health services to our most hit population groups, which are sick. And what else do we have left, we were in the minority? We're left with you not to outvote us, to run away with our heads, regardless of this assembly, we've brought down the quorum, that was the day the Parliament was disbanded. You mean after the government was voted or mistrusted, you didn't give up on that law, we ran off with our heads regardless, we made it impossible for you to pass those harmful laws. And I'm willing to pay the fine of 450 kuna again tomorrow if you're going to punish our legitimate right but if that's the way to stand up to make you impossible. Let's say you pass a tax law that is presented these days, which is also spoken of by fellow Maras, where you want to increase actually the richer ones to make even the richer ones, and even the MPs, as far as I can see, increase the additional salary of the new Tax Law and the poor won't go so well. Through this increase the prices of those key foods, living foods such as bread, milk, sugar, increase the prices of health services, increase the prices of textbooks. So what else will we have left than to try in the only possible way as a minority to make it impossible for you to pass such laws, leave the assembly and threaten the quorum? If that's why we're going to pay the fine, we're going to pay, as we should, I said, 18 thousand kunas ago that this law was in force when we prevented you from new duties on the health system. In this law, what I said earlier and in the replica, it should be kept in mind that there are duties that are incompatible with the duties of parliamentary deputies. There are representatives who are mayors, who are mayors, who are councilmen, who have been elected by citizens, whose law does not prevent them from doing so in parallel and doing enough conscientiously even one and another work. And I don't think it's right and it needs to be changed. That one of, if you're going to insist on this, part that you should, means defining that one of the justifiable reasons, this which we talked about just before, through the replicas of my colleague Arsen and I, should be a valid reason for missing from the session of the Croatian Parliament, from the vote or from the building of the Croatian Parliament, because we still don't know what we're discussing. And secondly, what we need to find the answer to is how to improve the committee's work. This House depends greatly on the dynamics of committee work. The committees are the parent, key bodies and in the past 8 months when we had the government headed by Tim Oreshkovic and here a bit of an insecure and confusing situation in the Croatian Parliament, there was a problem, you had a problem with the quorum two or three times, well, it could be some kind of bigger or less embarrassing. But let's just say it wasn't as terrible as the fact that we, as an opposition, held quorums on the parent bodies and on committees and it was very often known that your MPs or not, it is now important that tomorrow who will be the position and who the opposition did not come to committee meetings. Now, if we punish the arrival, do not come to the vote then I think we must also take care of and ensure the arrival of representatives on boards because without passing the documents debate, the documents on committees they cannot come here to the Croatian Parliament and can theoretically happen that committees block the work of the Croatian Parliament, do not do their job and we have nothing to discuss. I'm not sure how much punishment will contribute to the discipline of the MPs. I think we should all work a little harder on ourselves, be aware that when we sign a statement that we accept the candidacy, we should get on the list and run for representatives in the Croatian Parliament, we must be aware that we must be ready to work at that moment, and say 0-24h for our citizens and fellow citizens. But if it'll help, I support everything that will restore the voter's trust in us and restore the dignity of the Croatian Parliament. [[Intruder Jandrokovic: Time is up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2811	Thank you. It's two replicas. He's the first respected colleague of Arsen Bauk's.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2812	I'd like to refer to your question about Friday, the absence of Parliament, the absence of a vote. So in Article 1 of this Act, the first paragraph speaks of any unwarranted absence from the Croatian Parliament on the day of the vote in the Croatian Parliament, which would have been for some normal interpretation, so that you really need to register somewhere in the Assembly that you came that day. However, in the second paragraph, it is said a little more precisely, a lack of vote in the Croatian Parliament. The 3rd paragraph also discusses the absence of representatives from the vote in the Croatian Parliament. Now, the vote in the Croatian Parliament is prescribed in articles 255 to some 267 of the Rules of Procedure. And now what can happen? Let's all get together at the vote, the president says 'let's figure out the quorum, we get into it nicely, the quorum, great and we see that those from most of it are less than 76, and we say now that the first voting law comes, we're not going to press anything. And in the first vote, we're in hall 120 and it turns out that it voted 73, um, no quorum. Then Mr. Bacic will remember 'Let's vote by raising hands 'cause in the Rules of Procedure, if you're in the hall and your hands are up and you don't vote, you don't think you're abstention. Well, then we gather together, we leave the hall, and now we need to determine who's in the hall and who's not. And so it'll be quite interesting to watch until someone remembers, let's say from the MOST club, let's vote by name. Well, then there's no way to avoid that story anymore. So here's what I'm talking about is how much ingenuity it takes to avoid this one situation, to still be prescribed, to know what it's about, what case it's about, not having this circus, to get in, to get out, and to see if you've come up there to the second pillar or you've already gone out with one foot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2813	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2814	My colleague Bauk, there's one more thing that's quite interesting to me. If we look at the situation in the assembly all week, I mean it's sad, here's the accident Friday, but let's forget it's Friday, forget it's voted today, take one standard constituency week. When is the most representative in the assembly? Fridays when it's voted. Most of all, look, compare. Or when it's the current hour when we have the Croatian government coming. No, but these are extraordinary circumstances. In normal working week, the most MPs are actually in the assembly at the time of the vote, which is in principle Friday. Now I'm interested in the next one. Why did the promoter, in order to send a better picture out, to discipline us, decide to figure out in some way with that particular day when he was here in the assembly, not even look so bad? Now that leads me to the conclusion that the intention of this law is, I hope not, but it's just so logical now that I'm thinking, that the only intention is actually to secure the quorum and avoid those embarrassing situations when you couldn't vote the laws, you had a majority but you didn't come and reckon with your representatives from the ruling majority's circle to keep it smooth and to leave one impression that this is a stable and firm power compared to what was presented in the previous little under a year. Why now, that very day of voting when it is here, unfortunately, it's almost a rare moment when the Parliament seems so polite and much, the moments when it's being voted.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2815	Okay, well, it's important that the proposer didn't remember to punish that club the president never has. That'd be nasty. Now it's time for the esteemed colleague Ivan Pernar, it's a final debate of 5 minutes. Excuse me, we still have a colleague, Beus Richembergh, who also answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2816	When you spoke about the opposition's right to obstruct the functioning of the ruling majority there is another higher level, which is the right to boycott. So, when we talk about parliamentaryism, then we cannot and should not just watch what is in the Croatian Parliament. In addition, the proposer of this law cited in a comparative analysis a whole series of examples from the practices of other parliaments. I will remind you of the situation in the Macedonian Parliament where the opposition has not come to Parliament for months because of the fact that only one single instrument has happened, which is that it boycotts Parliament's work in order to force the international community to force the Macedonian authorities to make a decision on the interim elections. So it was about preserving fundamental democratic principles. Parliament is the only place but only in the system of parliamentary democracy dams on one side of chaos, on the other hand dictatorships. And these are different technologies that serve the parliamentary majority or parliamentary minority very legitimately to express political will, to underline certain political messages, or to ultimately save the state as the word was in Macedonia. So the right to obstruction and the right to boycott are some of the rights that are entitled to all normal parliaments. The other thing is that the situation isn't normal when they use it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2817	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2818	Well, not only that, fellow Beus. There are a number of parliaments if we look at some parliaments of Bundestag and some other states we will see often, British, I don't know Polish, very often we can see actually that MPs speak in front of empty parliaments. It is, for example, an absolute culture of understanding of the way in which Parliament's work does not mean a commitment to one place and a necessary sitting here if you do not recognize yourself in a particular topic, if you do not think you can make your professional contribution to a particular topic in the debates, in the proposals, in the amendments. You're doing something else at that point probably, doing something on the ground or somewhere else. I say, we all need the untrusted mistrust of the Croatian people towards us. It is not nice for any of us to face it more often or less, but there is no likely person here who has not faced it or does not face it every day. We can introduce, reduce our full rights, put us on volunteering, work for wages at the level of jobs we came from, for the same values, we can. But I don't think it's going to restore voter trust in power again, I repeat it for the fourth time as a parrot today, until we all realize that here in this assembly we have to not only take care of whether or not we vote for what we vote for. That we have to keep an eye on the way we're discussing it, and we have to keep an eye on whether any proposals on our fellow citizens are coming here at all, which are in the interest of improving their lives or dealing with ourselves and some peripheral issues that might actually be irrelevant to them and we're putting them here as some kind of priorities of a couple of excellence. So that's a much more complex question. But if our contribution should be to trust us more, to show that we are more correct, that we are more professional and well, we can try. But I'm not sure you'll make it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2819	My colleague's time is up, thank you. Now it's time for the esteemed colleague Ivan Pernar. So, we have two club representatives who have final debates for five minutes and then we will be contacted on behalf of the promoter by a distinguished colleague, Robert Podolnjak. Here you go, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2820	Thank you, Chairman. I'm looking right now at my right-hand side and I'm looking at how many HDZ colleagues who are proposing this bill to punish themselves for not attending meetings as many of them as are present here today. Here I see three of them. There's someone to correct me. And the fourth and you the fifth. There's five of them here. There's two of us. We're half, 50%. There. So what's this about? It's just that we keep in shape. The type is frustrated by the Electoral Law, coming up with ways in which MPs are dragged to the meetings, however the main reason why there is no interest in the representatives to come to the Parliament is that the topics we are discussing are often not, unfortunately, state-owned, not topics that will take public attention. So if you're wondering how many people are interested in this debate that we're having right now, you'll see that the interest is nothing. What I'd like is that we don't look at each other as enemies, that together we say all of us here who are together and our colleagues who aren't going to agree we're going to say foreign banks depose from our country, we're going to free our country, we're going to write off an external debt, we're going to stop the privatisation process that's planned, of course, which is inevitable because the loans can't be returned. And one more thing, let's say, let's say companies that are illegally privatized to return to state property. And then all of us together could, for example, unite around it, mean a positive proposal and protect ourselves from the only real estate from the commission, etc. But we don't discuss it. So that kind of thing that's fateful, which depends on whether our country goes up or continues in the spiral going down, there's no discussion about such topics. There is no debate about whether or not we will continue to join the NATO Pact that created this refugee crisis, there is no, i.e. He does not want to discuss what the government is making decisions, or promises to make decisions, even though no one has asked. And in the end, we return to the question of whether we, colleagues from the Parliament, are we the ones who decide or all decide on the party key. Say you SDP colleagues used to be at your heart, you knew that some law was bad but you voted for that law because the party said so. Same thing with the HDZ colleagues. So sometimes they, they know it's not good, but look, it's not hard and it's voted under the directive. And then you obstruct each other sometimes even though you might agree with that proposal. Or, if you suggested it, it means that your club suggested it you would vote yes but only because you are another party you will vote against and vice versa. However, all these proposals that we are so out of line and out of line about, these are all issues in rule of order, so they're not of a fateful nature for our country. And in fact, this House instead of the place of state decisions, which are in the best interest of sovereignty, freedom and prosperity of our country, has turned into a platform for verbal ping-pong. It means that we're all throwing ourselves at each other with balls, but basically whether or not citizens will live better after that ping pong. In my opinion, all these discussions we're having aren't actually going to move citizens' lives to a better not even an inch. And why is that? Not because it's a debate, i.e. because we don't want to debate or vote much, but because there is no majority in this House that would say elite, those 1% at the top of the pyramid of power, who are joined in secret societies where Mr. Marijan Hanžekovic would tell him to stop. So there is no will to remove these informal structures of power from power. Because we're not the government here. It's a fact that everyone here knows, someone else makes decisions, someone else decides. And then when that other one decides, then it comes to us here for a vote and then most of it doesn't matter if HDZ or SDP, votes. [[/Intruder Jandroković: Thank you very much. Time's up.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2821	Second debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, HSU Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2822	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This address of ours is actually an address to the promoters. So the whole day's debate has shown that the paliative measures cannot solve the basic problem they are targeting. We suggest that you think not only about the revision of this text and the redesign proposal but also about which all other measures can be significantly better, more effectively improving the functioning of the Croatian Parliament. With this proposal you actually located the problem only on Friday and it is basically the least problematic. As my colleague Glasovac said, Friday is the most representative in this Chamber and we never have a problem in principle with whether or not the quorum has a problem with the ruling majority. But if that's how you think of disciplined people who make up the ruling majority, then that's not a good way to go. Because if someone is in a fight with the top of their club or the top of their party or the option that sits in the government and blackmails her and doesn't want to come and asks her to pray and best man to come and vote on Fridays then 450 kuna is nothing. For 450 kuna, you won't solve this problem. Obviously, communication is a problem within the ruling majority clubs. The more it becomes, the easier it will work, but don't transfer that kind of responsibility to opposition. The opposition has the right not to be here at all on Fridays because it thus shows that it does not agree at all with what is on the agenda of that day and what is voted on at all. I suggest we do things differently. We have a young president of the Croatian Parliament, in this business he is a beginner, so he is allowed to make mistakes at first but I also assume that he is specific and open to all possible suggestions. It is he who will determine the rules of the game in a way to tell which days of the week are done, how much is done. You think it's 12 hours of debate about anything in this world that makes sense? That you could talk at the same concentration at 8 a.m. or 9.30 p.m. at 9.30 p.m.? Well, that's pointless. What do I have for you to say at 10:00 p.m. after listening to each other all day? So it's excruciating, it's killing human potential. Let's concentrate. We can discuss over 4 or 5 points of the agenda in one week but to know what we are doing, that we can prepare in time and that the number of emergency situations is as small as possible and that is, there are scissors and canvas in the hands of the President of the Parliament, the narrow presidency and the wider presidency, and there is responsibility for the presidents of the clubs of the ruling majority, in this way you can significantly improve the work. And then let us work every day but in the morning, that in the afternoon and evening when most of the social activities that are expected to happen, we can participate most normally. You know if they call you, and you don't come, they'll say, look at him, he's imagining, now he's a fairy tale, now he's a representative, he won't hang out with us anymore, what's his day of the oxy community. You understand? So we're getting into an awkward position. On the other hand, as many round tables as there are very important consultations where we are expected to come, to say what we think, what our parties are actually going to advocate in this Parliament when it comes to corruption, about any other issue, about the state of the NGO, about the state of human rights, about the state of the media. If no one from the Croatian Parliament comes, it is an ugly message, they do not care, they do not want to participate in these meetings. So we need to balance things out. But certainly avoid the President of the Croatian Parliament being an accountant, an accountant and a director. It's not like him and it's not on him. And if professional services deal with it on his behalf and for his account, it's gonna happen that he's signing something he hasn't read, and there's a white one. Let's not put him in that position, we're in no hurry, there's no sugar in the water, and no one's head is going to fall, but let's systematically think about how to improve from Monday to Friday. And let's look at the practice of this Parliament a year, two, five or ten, we weren't born yesterday, and this Parliament didn't start working with our cohabitation. There were those before and they worked better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2823	Thank you, too. And finally, on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed colleague Robert Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2824	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I thank both you colleagues and fellow MPs who at this time are in the assembly and who have contributed to your constructive speeches and advice that we will make this legislative proposal that we have submitted quality work and offer for a second reading. But now that we're talking about this legislative proposal, I have to remember the situation from the last call when we also proposed some legislative proposals at the very beginning of the parliamentary session and then we never discussed them in the end. This time, as you can see, in the first two weeks, we are discussing the legal proposals proposed by MOST Independent Lists. So we learned a parliamentary lesson, we're far wiser now, we know how to bring our legislative proposals to parliamentary debate. And we've just reached the point of this first reading. So, we've heard your thoughts, we've heard suggestions about a subject that applies not only to rights but also to the obligations of MPs. There have been a lot of correct discussions, suggestions and perceptions of certain and nomotechnical or other content in this short legislative proposal that should be improved. But since this debate lasts all day, you who later responded to the word seem to me that you didn't even remember what I was saying in the opening speech on behalf of the promoter anymore. I'm... your speech that I gave at this session and there's one difference between your interpretations and what I really said. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, speaking of the committees that discussed this legislative proposal, it was a matter of violating the democratic right of MPs if no vote of MPs or the participation of MPs in the vote were sanctioned. I then cited comparative situations and solutions in other democratic states, some of which I cited in my presentation which, therefore, did not object. But then I made it clear that we do not insist on the solution that it must be voted on. I'll read you now what I actually said back then. This is a question that we will take part in a public debate and prepare for a second reading a proposal that will have the broadest consensus on this House. At this point, we leave the issue open in how to sanction whether we would like to prescribe whether the MPs are only in Parliament on certain days when the vote is being voted or we would like to ensure that they vote as they are not in other parliaments. At this point we leave that question to the debate and we will decide when the second reading of this law will be on the agenda. So I made it clear that we're keeping this question open because we haven't heard your thoughts and we said we want the broadest consensus. So in the interpretation you stated that there was also a vote but that is not the final legal text to which you would give the amendment. This is a proposal to be discussed in the second reading. Obviously, the view of a number of representatives' clubs in the opposition is that they do not insist on voting as a factor that would be important for the withdrawal of part of the parliamentary flat as a kind of financial penalization. We need to respect that as the position of your clubs. There are other mechanisms, there is a possibility that we will discuss whether, in another way, we will determine the presence of MPs in the Assembly or in the Assembly without obligation to participate in any vote if you wish to use the right not to participate in the creation of quorums in certain situations as an opposition. There is a proposal presented by counterpart Bauk, which provides for a certain sanctioning but for every day when the Croatian Parliament is sitting. It is a quality proposal, very constructive and it will also be taken into account and we will see in the end which proposal could reach the broadest consensus. So what we discussed today is actually the introduction to a debate that has never been held in this Croatian Parliament because it has never discussed obligations but only rights. I believe that by seeking this consensus and in the debate on committees, on the final proposal, we will determine what the largest number of MPs can vote for by respecting and the rights that you want as an opposition in this House of Commons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2825	Thank you, too. And we have three replicas. The first one reported for the replica of the distinguished colleague Sabina Glasovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2826	Thank you. Mr. Podolnjak, I listened carefully to your opening presentation but I found it rather unusual that in the official proposal of the law, which came before us MPs, here on our benches, we have actually two different terms, already spoken about it by some colleagues, so in the first paragraph there is a absence from the Croatian Parliament, meaning at all a lack of space, not approaching the building and in paragraph 2. the absence of representatives from the vote in the Croatian Parliament. Which means you're only being punished if you're not here, you can be in a bar, in a building, you won't get that sanction. And I don't know, it's a little unusual for me, I have to admit, I mean no one here bites, you can come with a strict, concrete proposal, and then we're through the debate, you're listening through the first reading, what you think is a good fit, what you think is not good that was proposed in the assembly don't fit in, after that we also have the possibility of proposing amendments. But it's amazing to me why this fear that even in an official bill you can't set yourself up for one thing and tell us we're for punishment when you don't show up on Fridays at all in the assembly building or we're for punishment when Fridays don't come to the vote, you don't take part in the vote. Well, nobody's going to eat anybody here, so they're going to argue here, so they're changing, first they're reading. That's what I said was unclear and that even after eight hours of debate, we don't really know what's proposed specifically. And secondly, I'm glad that here you finally got the chance to influence that your points come somehow as the first points of the agenda and not as in the last term to be there somewhere at the bottom, so there are many of them at the bottom that we haven't even discussed them but here you have the privilege, now you've been wiser and you have the President of the Parliament and you could have it and then, here we proposed you didn't want it. The speech room has been shut down. [[Intruder Jandroković: Thank you very much, time is up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2827	Thank you very much. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2828	Thank you. As I have said, all language ambiguities and possibilities of different interpretations within this article, which have been presented by other MPs, will be eliminated in the final proposal of the legal text and will be very clear and unequivocally in which way, when and in what situations financial sanctions will follow for MPs and will be very clearly envisaged and very clear situations where they will not follow in view of the justified absence of MPs. And there were correct suggestions. For example, it never occurred to me that my colleague Bauk's suggestion that attending the representative bodies could be one reason for a reasonable absence. So it is possible to be justified, even though I am personally of the view that, for example, the question and the mayor who performs two duties is equally questionable and the question of how he could be both mayor and representative every day. But these are other questions but useful suggestions to consider when making a final bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2829	Thank you very much. The second replica is a respected colleague of Tomislav Sauch.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2830	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. You didn't say that, you were quite clear, you even quoted us, i.e. Listed in which all parliaments in Europe are obliged to attend an act of vote, we have been talking about this all day. As an opposition we have never, I even said that in the first seconds of my speech on behalf of the club we have not troubled the need to in some way ensure the presence of the Assembly sessions. You were the one who said it didn't have to be a vote. When you look at the law, I suppose you wrote it, I don't know who wrote it, it's very clear to read from the articles of the law. Now, you have yet to admit one other thing, that you have actually turned out to be inconclusive, that you have sent into the parliamentary procedure a law that is unprepared, unspeakable, as I have said badly written, as most of these laws that you have sent "on your nose" to the Assembly. I don't think it's a good practice to send a legal proposal to the Parliament that passes and the bodies and comes here for a plenary debate that's so badly prepared. Then you could come with some kind of initiative of informal character, gather clubs, gather MPs, gather our thinking and then formulate a proposal. You're a club, you're right, you could have done it, not like this. There's no need to look at the phonogram and read out who said what, I'm glad you listened to the voice of reason, and I'm glad that in the end, however, MOST retarded on this issue because we think this is a very important question and I'm glad you listened to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2831	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2832	I'll be brief for a little while longer. We said clearly in the debate that we would seek the broadest consensus, you heard that in my first presentation and now again. So it's not our intention to end this vote with 76:75 or in any similar proportion but we want the broadest consensus, we don't want to hurt the rights of the opposition. And that's why we said that this was only the first opportunity to hear your thinking and your club attitudes, before that we couldn't even know what the attitude was, so we'll also respect a series of constructive remarks.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2833	Thank you. And the last replica of the day, dear colleague Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2834	That's the one who's got the double diaries. So, dear Mr. Podlnjak, it is precisely the problem that you said because Mr. Simic was on the Committee on the Constitution and Mr. Petrov later in a public appearance and today I was told with a pay phone that this would not apply to the right of the opposition to obstruct the quorum. So you took half a step back because you left this issue open, you weren't in those first, first days of the session but on the board Mr. Simic made it very clear, it was very clear. As for my two suggestions that you've praised, this for missing every day one diary, so it's not a little too much now, I'm asking you to write it down. ... Otherwise, with this abandonment, it is quite interesting that such a law was valid during the 14th Congress, I am not sure if the Slovenian delegation would leave Congress, since they would be threatened with monetary sanctions and what history would continue. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Most of the time, while some of the skeptics are about your attempt to reach the widest consensus I would warn you that you had some success in selecting constitutional judges, you ended up from that consensus for the four judges you dropped but you managed to connect everyone else. Therefore, I believe that there should really be certain sanctions for irregular MPs, that they should be in this section to concern all days and then let them decide whether they would rather be mayors or rather be parliamentary representatives, etc. I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2835	Thank you all. So I'm closing the debate and we're going to vote on this point when we get the conditions. Let me announce, so we start at 9.30 p.m. on Wednesday with the Amendment Act and the Supplements of the Law on the Croatian National Bank. So an important and interesting point. Thank you very much. Have a nice weekend.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-28-0.u2836	The next item is the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, first reading, P.Z.BR. Seven. It is proposed by the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. 1. Proposal for a law on the rights and responsibilities of representatives in the Croatian Parliament is hereby adopted. 1. Any objections to the proposals and opinions will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please engage. Let's vote. The vote is over. I find that with 82 votes for, 27 abstentions and 7 against the accepted conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
