ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u17804	Your Honor, I'm looking for a break from the Reformist and Labour Party and solidarity break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u17805	All right. You must specify only the theme to ask for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u17806	The reason is the Law on the area of special state care, even development and we can tell the information of this area of HTV.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u17807	Thank you. I approve of the break. And there are other MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u17808	Dear President, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club regarding the latest cases of child sexual abuse and the need to amend criminal and other laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u17809	Anybody else have any agents? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u17810	Here's the esteemed president I would like to request a break on the urban violence committed against the citizens of the City of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u17811	Thank you. Is there anyone else out there who's looking for a break? I'm approving a 10-minute break. Here you go. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] A session of the Justice Committee scheduled today at 10:00 will be held today at 11.00 p.m. We're going back to work. The first club that requested a break is the Reformist Club and their representative, Darinko Dumbovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u17813	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, the honored gentlemen who are here today. I am particularly pleased and very pleased to welcome you as Parliament's representative of the 6th electoral unit in the city of Petrinja as a very much of a problem, and above all one great commitment to thank the president and finally all that we are talking about here today, and especially about the topic that is very current in the area of special state care, about a law that is not particularly appropriate for all those people who do not have a safe home for the future of their family, a safe home for all those citizens of Croatia who have come from Bosnia and Herzegovina, a safe home for the Croats who have come from Vojvodina, for the Croats who have come from Kosovo who have come from behind us to say what is the most important value and culture and content of life in our area. Not having a safe future in your home means that as a state, we have missed what we have promised many who are in those houses, and some are 10 and 20 years old. That same law as the Reformists seven months ago we gave here as a proposal for a law that was smoothly rejected by the former government and made it clear that there was none of it. I here want this same law on the field of special state care to give first of all to all citizens what is most important and it is home, it is security, it is the future and to see if we will have enough sensitivity right here in this Croatian Assembly. The Croats from Kosovo have an uncertain future because for ten years they have been in a exile settlement of Mala Gorica. Now we should move to a new exile settlement that's Dumache. However, here we need to know that the state of Croatia and the Parliament should make many decisions to create above all new agencies I do not know about islands, about Korčula, about let's say about Lošinj and everything else. However, the housing agency that manages all those areas of special state care wants in some way to transfer the ball and all the habits created right through the exile settlements, that part of the financial burden to local self-government. The 23 000 euros cost the pro-region settlement in Mali Gorica Republika Srpska for a month. Two million a year. These people got some habits not to pay for electricity, water, food and everything else. However, once they enter this new exile settlement, Dumac will come under the burden of just the local self-government. In our concentrated state, when we look at fiscal policy towards exactly areas of special state concern, then I can say as mayor that we are losing at least 10 million kunas that we will no longer have. Coming back and seeing that we couldn't get what we had and what was taken from the government of the Republic of Croatia, which is the facilities for which we were getting, for military facilities and closer to 3 million for municipal fees. Looking at if we get another two million commitments that are easy but certainly the state throws in the lap of local self-government, I don't think that's gonna be right. I hope I'm supposed to be on a show today about indexing our country's beautiful country, but I'm just being kicked out. I would like HRT and HRT policy to be evenly distributed with information and in the area of special state care and to show sensitivity, because I'm afraid it will be a long time before our 100 thousand people from Una to Kupa see at least 20 years without making a difference that they were at least three times in Chitluk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u17814	I thank Representative Dumbovic. The next Representatives' Club to take a break is the HDZ Representatives' Club and, on their behalf, Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u17815	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Unfortunately, we saw the cover again this weekend filling up a case that happens again, it's about sexual abuse of a child, unfortunately this time it was about girls from eight and nine years old and we've been looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ club to warn the public and to let them know that the HDZ club is taking care of it, and that in due course there will be changes to the laws that are absolutely necessary. Exactly a month ago, there was also another case, and what we are witnessing here is that cases happen again that people who work with children or are already registered for sexual abuse are not being punished in an adequate manner or preventive action is also not in line with what should be, it is insufficient. In April of this year, unfortunately, the person who has already committed the crime of sexual abuse has again done this act, and that was the first time I warned from this speaker about the need for laws to be amended. It's both the Penal Code and some other laws. In the first discussions of this call, we heard about laws to be amended and we all agreed that the approach to change should be systematic, not partial. And as far as I know, there has been no mention of the need to amend these laws, so not only the Penalty but some others, and all the laws concern the prevention and punishment of child sexual abuse, and from day to day we see how much it takes and get to the complaints of the citizens. It is therefore necessary to say that the HDZ Club will eventually initiate the procedure for amending these laws, and in particular the Penal Code for the offences of sexual abuse and exploitation of the child. Of course, all relevant bodies and all others will be included in accordance with the procedure. They consulted colleagues with several departments, children's psychologists, children's defenders, and all agreed that changes to the law were necessary, even more so that they should have happened before. For a short period of time, I will single out only some necessary changes, so the committing of a child's sexual abuse cannot be subject to an ageing category, or if it is subject to an ageing category, then that category should be substantially revised and the legal minimum for sexual abuse of a child is far too low. In other words, it happens in practice that the perpetrator is free for several years literally and then we look again and again at cases and situations where this same perpetrator commits this crime against another child. And we wonder how long he's been alive. On the other hand, we must make it clear from this pay phone that these children suffer life-long psychophysical consequences and, unfortunately, most of these children become life-long psychiatric cases. Not only are children in some way psychotically destroyed but these entire families suffer great consequences and indeed, these stories are tragic. Since spring we've been systematically working on these issues, and I think this last case is an opportunity to bring it to the public to take care of it. We need to improve the laws and it is not disputed because we see for ourselves that the consequences cannot be corrected unfortunately. And what is important here to stress that this is not a political question as much as it seemed, so this question is primarily a matter of the safety and well-being of our children because it is clear to all of us that potential abusers cannot protect themselves, it is our job. That's what we'll do in due course because the approach is really systematic. Only in the end would I say, and the propose of the courts, so last week a lady's mother whose daughter is a victim of sexual abuse and whose trial lasts for more than five years. So the trial takes more than five years, and that girl's been exposed all this time to torture and trauma, and I think any further comment is too high. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u17816	I thank MP Vuksanovic. And a representative of Sladorov Marko in front of the Club of Representatives of the Most. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u17817	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to say that we are pleased that Mr. Dumovic has asked for a break on this subject after our representative Nikola Grmoja visited Glina and we are only sorry that this topic has not been updated before because this problem has already been under way for 20 years. But it's not my break. The theme of my break is a protest in the Zagreb settlement of Sredstvo where my colleague Runtic and I were at because we received an invitation as a representative club. We did not take a stand at first but wanted to ask the citizens what the problem was. It is that on the eastern side of the Museum of Contemporary Art plans to build a building of nine floors. And when we talked to the citizens they even said that they were not against building that building but that they had a problem with the height of that building that would be higher than the Museum of Contemporary Art. It should also be pointed out that they already have major traffic problems in the street, that there are very many families with small children and that they are afraid for their children, that the settlement of Cresce has not enough kindergartens and schools and that one such building with over 400 apartments will disrupt the view of the village and they have highlighted the dissatisfaction with building and such high buildings. We promised them that we would update this problem in the Croatian Parliament, but it is not a problem of the Centre, the problem is the intransparency of construction in other parts of the City of Zagreb, and the British square, the Flower Square, the European square, and we think that such a way of planning is disrupting the sight of the City of Zagreb. We think that's where we should listen to the profession. Recently, the Society of Architects of the City of Zagreb, Croatia, which numbers over 3,000 architects, has raised concerns about the way such construction is built. So the Independent List MOST is not against construction, it's not against investment, but it's for listening to the profession, listening to citizens. Here is just the end of a digression that I saw yesterday in the City of Zagreb that certain trade chains began to stick to records in the center of the city of Zagreb, meaning marketing interests first of all. As far as the board is concerned, I would just point out that on Friday we removed the mandate from the Croatian defender for the record and that some tycoons and large rich people are allowed something and Croatian defenders are not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u17818	I'd like to thank Representative Sladekov. We are now moving on to the establishment of daily work, or the completion of the day-to-day work of the 2nd session. We're moving on to the consolidated agenda. The first item is - Proposal for a decision to appoint a president and 8 members of the Committee of State Sports Award Franjo Bučar is the Proposer of the Central State Sport Office pursuant to Article 80. Sports law. The material was delivered to the boxes. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. I'd ask the esteemed MPs if they knew the session wasn't over. I'd like to ask the esteemed MPs if they'll allow us to proceed with the session and take their seats. The debate, as I said, was conducted by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You received the report at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Janica Kostelic, State Secretary at the Central State Sports Office. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19641	Your Honor, your Honor, your honors. First greeting as my first exposure as head of the Central State Sport Office. I'm going to put it that way, the anxiety is present, so every mistake is being taught and hopefully there will be as few of them as possible. The state sport award Franjo Bučar is the highest recognition that the Republic of Croatia is awarding for exceptional achievements and contributions of particular importance for the development of sports in the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 80 of the Treaty on the The Law on Sports, the State Prize Decision is made by the Committee of State Prizes of Sport Franjo Bučar. The President and 8 members, on a proposal from the Central State Sport Office, are appointed by the Croatian Assembly from the ranks of prominent sports and public employees of prominent athletes and other prominent sports experts at a time of four years. Since the four-year term of office of members of the committee appointed in 2012 expired in 2016, a procedure for the appointment of a new committee was launched. For the president and members of the Committee of State Sports Awards Franjo Bučar, we propose: Prof. Dr. Damir Knjaz dean of the Faculty of Kinesiology, University of Zagreb, Prof. Dr. Đurđicu Miletic dean of the Faculty of Kinesiology of the University of Split, Mr. Veni Losert of the top sportsman of Croatian handball, Mr. Dina Raju of Croatian basketball athlete, Mr. Zdeslav Vrdoljak of Croatian top athlete in water polo, Mrs. Barbaru Jelić Ružić of Croatian volleyball athlete, Mr. Marija Stanić of Croatian top athlete in football, Mr. Darko King of Croatian Paralympic, Mrs. Mila Horvat journalist, editor and head of sports programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19642	Thank you. That's it? Okay. Then you can sit down. Thank you very much. We're moving on with our work. Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports want a distinguished colleague, Nada Đurić Turina? She's gone. Then we'll have a club debate. The first came forward with the word of Honorary colleague Andro Krstulovic Opera on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19643	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. State Secretary, Mr. Chairman. The Croatian House has debated sports many times, and controversy has been discussed in this conference. Today we're discussing one of the most beautiful things. We're choosing the greats who will decide about the best. The proposed members of the Franjo Bučar State Prize are top athletes of which, for example, six have more than eight or nine Olympic medals, one twenty European and world medals with experts who will best represent a quality commission that will debate and valorise the medals from our sport. I hold that in our decision that I hope will be unanimous to just confirm what I like to call metricocracy. People who are all their lives, professionalism and amateur athletes who have shown maximum professionalism, we will best mark and introduce them practically Croatian hall of fame. The choice you have proposed in the best possible way represents the top sports that have cheered us so many times over the past 25 years, but also carefully selected members who will cover the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The representation you have chosen really requires our deep respect. I am absolutely sure that, in further discussions, if they are here today, the value of what the Central State Office as an important political definition of the new government wants to promote, excellence, excellent results and our gratitude for them. Mrs. Kostelic, this is the best possible way to start your mandate, be assured that the HDZ Club, but also this High House with great care, will observe and monitor your work, not only in these promotional and quality promotional measures, but also in the implementation of the Sport Act, which is a fundamental document that will enable youth, but also in the third age of Croats, to see sport as a way of life. The law on sports has been mentioned too often for political purposes, and I am sure that your reaction and the efforts that you will make to make the Sport Act fully implemented, to take off the agenda in the next pre-election period and because sport belongs to athletes, people who get up at five in the morning and in the sweat of their faces are trying and achieving top results. The debate on the Law on Sports is the opposite of what I mentioned earlier and the fact that the opposite of these people you have chosen here today is to be excellent and who will talk, and to gather and propose the medals that will be crowned by Franjo Bučar's award. So, the HDZ Club and I will personally make an effort to be your great support and firm support to promote values in your business, and that is why today is the secretary of state, originality, great effort, tenacity and honesty. I call on members of this House to accept this proposal unanimously. The HDZ Club will do that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19644	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. The first replica is the esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19645	Thank you, Vice President. I would like to look back on one detail, you said the full implementation of these proposed laws, this year in the budget rebalancing of the Franjo Bučar Prize were reduced by an eye, so I would ask you if you had any knowledge of how these funds were reduced and why? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19646	Thank you. Second replica, esteemed colleague Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19647	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear counterpart Krstulović, I agree with everything you have said, but since I come from the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County and Rijeka, I must respond to your conclusion that this committee has also fully agreed on regional principles. Unfortunately, no, I'd like you to name someone who comes from Rijeka and the Primorje-Gorski County.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19648	Do you want an answer to the replica of my colleague Krstulović? So please just, colleague Krstulović, so you must let it know that you want to replicate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19649	I thought you noticed. Sorry, next time, I'll raise my hand high.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19650	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19651	I didn't look from town to town, because then we could also cut off your remark literally in every element. But I believe that representation is territorial not by cities, not by regions, not by cities at all, I have not seen who is from Split at all, but it is actually covered by the whole of Croatia in the best, in the best possible way. The most important team sports in the Republic of Croatia are covered, and I am absolutely sure that independence and top-quality résumés and excellent results of these athletes will appreciate all the phenomena, positive phenomena in Croatian sport. So is the area where you come from.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19652	Thank you very much. We move on to another debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most esteemed counterpart Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19653	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished Miss Kostelic, honourable parliamentary representatives and MPs, will support the motion for a decision to appoint the president of the Board of State Award for Sports member Franjo Bučar Club of Representatives of the Most. There are all people who have great successes and renowned sports successes and have been renowned in sports professions, and we believe that it is time for such people to be promoted and to decide in the best way about the sport of people who are involved in sports as well as in the establishment, we welcome the establishment of the Central Sport Office. And we congratulate you, Miss Kostolic, on your choice, and we hope that with your example, your choice of sport, the sport will be talked positively, that there will be no more negative things, that there will be no more negative things going on in sport that every child in any area has the opportunity to engage in sports and you, by your life and example, to witness that you were forgotten by all of you when you were in your beginnings and yet you persisted and became a symbol of Croatian sport and world sport. And I hope that many children who have ambition will be engaged in sports that are talented that they will have a much easier way because you are witnessing it with your own example. In particular, we hope to respect what is prescribed in the law, which is the Law on Sports. This is what MOST insisted in the previous government, unfortunately they did not want us to listen to those who are today calling for the Sports Law to be respected. We have divisions because of this, we have divisions where cheerleading groups and I am glad that they are united it is very good and positive while we punish them for much more banal things, and to the leaders of various organizations and, above all, the HNS do not respect the Law on Sports, manage the Pharaohic, and I hope that if any changes are necessary and the corrections of that sport should surely be seen again but the Law on Sports should be respected. And really from the heart once again in front of the MOST club congratulations. You have the support in us absolutely at any time because sport must be accessible to every child, throughout the Republic of Croatia, and that once and for all, sport becomes what needs to be in Croatia, which is, and what has presented us throughout the world to be the feather of Croatian society and community, and not the division, and we see mainly this way, and we would like to thank the mainly cheerleading groups that have warned us of breaking the laws as well as Torcide and Bed Blue Boys. And unfortunately, some have been bending the law, using it and simply manipulating the entire Croatian public and for private purposes using sports, sports successes and athletes. I once again congratulate and imitate this proposal and wish you good luck in the Sports Central Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19654	Thank you, too. We have one replica of the esteemed colleague Petar Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19655	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleague, ladies and gentlemen. So here's talking about this award, this recognition is an unforgivable theme of the Sport Act, the Sports Inspectorate. I think it is entirely inappropriate for us to discuss this part of this agenda point because we know that the topic of sport that burdens Croatian society, especially in football has been present in recent years. We have testified that this topic was also opened by the former SDP government, declared by the swamp, in four years unfortunately nothing has been done about it. I remind you that for a year in the coalition with the Most, we also opened the topic that we asked the former minister to carry out the law consistently, to begin with the work of the Sports Inspectorate. Therefore, I think it is inappropriate to discuss this subject at the expense of populism today. It's important in the Sports Office we have the secretary of state, at the government, let the war be solidized, filled, started with work and I'm sure here we have a promise from the secretary of state that the law will start to apply, that the inspection will come out on the ground. So let's let people do their job because no one in this country has the right to be outside the law. We choose to carry it out consistently on this body. And if there is any difficulty in his implementation, we can continue to discuss him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19656	Thank you. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19657	Mr. Scoric, you really forbid and congratulate on the person who's placed in this place and that's for real. And as for the very opening of this question, it was opened by your colleague on behalf of the club, Mr. Oprah, the question of the Sports Act as far as I can remember, which means three minutes ago. I'm really, I'm talking about a very important topic right now. It is that sport, children throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia and you know examples in Dalmatia Zagora, Lica, Slavonia, children have no conditions while silence is in the past term of some. Now this is pure populism ahead of the elections, mainly, obviously, I see that people appear to have some kind of ambition. In these areas children do not have the ability to engage in sports at all. Well, for example, we will give an example of a sports hall that was built for a handball championship that is annually and now billions cost Croatian citizens, and they are not usable, nor are they worth it under these circumstances. And that's a big loss to sport. And I'm sorry it wasn't then that they were saying that we're dealing with pulsism much louder. Of course I have the right to say and congratulate and say, wish on behalf of the club Mrs. Kostelic to fight for sport, that we will support. Why don't we say we respect the Sports Act? Well, the fact is, we don't respect each other, that's obvious. I'm sorry the last minister didn't do it, but you weren't very loud. I remember Marko Sladolev talking about it, we talked, we warned, there were crises. But I wouldn't go back in those days. I would just like to say that we wish success and that this is a good thing that sport has been singled out in a special office and that we all support Mrs. Kostelic and her associates to make sport a positive topic in Croatian society, and that every child can engage in sports because sports was Croatian piranhas and that is what we should build a community on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19658	Thank you. And now we have an individual debate, distinguished colleague Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19659	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Secretary of State, Ms. Janica Kostelic, first of all, and I have answered to congratulate you on appointing this important and responsible function and to wish you a lot of success in your work. What I am particularly pleased is that you are here today in the conference room on this particular issue because Franjo Bučar is the biggest sports award in Croatia that is awarded not only for excellent and top-notch sports results, but for what is very important and that is for teaching young people to devote themselves to sports, so for pedagogical achievements. And I hope that this year too there will be a lot of good proposals and that the board will really have a hard job choosing the best ones, and that it will be people who will be able to contribute to and what is waiting for you, which is that the Sport Office will live to get enough money in this budget, and that in the coming year, finally, with the support of this Committee on State Awards, which makes all the people whose career is impressive, we finally get a new national strategy for the development of sports that will then result in all the other legal solutions and the new Sport Act. That's what I'm congratulating you for. Congratulations to this committee and to all members who will no doubt be unanimously elected, but here is another small regret that it is not as in the previous meeting represented and the area from which I come, which also has top athletes, top sports coaches, top teachers who allow young people to understand how important it is to practice sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19660	Thank you very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very So we came to the end of the debate. Is Secretary of State Janica Kostelic final? You can go to the pay phone here.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19661	Honorable Vice President, Your Honor. I want to thank everyone for the confidence that we have to start. I sincerely hope that I will not let anyone down most of those little athletes who want for themselves better and who we all want better, and I hope that we will stop sharing in the regions and cities and that we will all work for a better Croatia. Sometimes we don't all agree in our thinking, but I believe that we all think well and that we will find some kind of mutual understanding and take Croatia in a better direction. Because I think we should be grateful that we have the state and that we have where we belong. Thank you very much for your support, and I'll see you soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19662	I would like to thank our secretary of state, Janica Kostelic. And this is what we've finished discussing on this agenda point. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19663	The next item is the vote on the proposal for a decision on the appointment of presidents and 8 members of the State Sports Award Committee "Franjo Bučar". The promoter is the Central State Sport Office. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on: Proposal for a decision to appoint a president and 8 members of the State Sports Award Committee "Franjo Bučar". Please engage. Let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the 121 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and no votes against the decision to appoint presidents and 8 members of the State Sports Award Committee "Franjo Bučar" in the text as proposed by the Central State Sport Office.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19664	Now we move on to the next item of the agenda. This is - Proposal for a Rules of Procedure amending the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament is proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System on the basis of Article 81. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 60 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to the boxes. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. You received the report at the session. I would now ask the proposer's representative to give us an additional explanation, an esteemed colleague of Robert Podolnjak, the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19665	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. You have before you a proposal for a Rules of Procedure on amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament established by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. It is a very short change that applies to only two articles. It stems from certain amendments and additions to the laws of the Republic of Croatia from October 2016 when the system of state administration was modified, and instead of the deputy ministers, the duty of State Secretary was introduced. As the provisions of the current Rules of Procedure provided for the participation of Deputy Ministers in the meetings of the working bodies and session of the Assembly would make it impossible for appointed State Secretarys to participate in the work of the Croatian Parliament as representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In order to avoid this, it is necessary to amend the provisions of the Rules of Procedure in force in order to prescribe that the Secretary of State will participate in the work of the working bodies and in the work of the meeting of the Assembly. In Article 56 and Article 121, we are currently amending the Deputy Ministers of State Secretarys and that is the only change to this short amendment to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19666	Thank you. This was on behalf of the proposer. We have one replica, dear colleague Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19667	Thank you very much, President. Well, I agree with these amendments, but I do think that perhaps in these amendments to the Rules of Procedure, maybe once and for all, we should solve the problems that arise when we have an electronic vote. So we saw that practice shows that MPs sit here, don't get involved, and it counts as if they're not here. The Rules of Procedure of Article 257 states when we have a vote by raising hands that the votes of the representatives present in the Chamber and have not voted in favour of or against the proposal, and have not declared themselves to be abstentions, are considered abstentions. So when we have our hands up it counts as abstentions even though we sit here, when we have an electronic vote, there are no such provisions and these people are not considered abstentions, but we simply count them as gone. I think that maybe the board should consider it so that the same item in Article 257 is put in Article 256 to decide once and for all whether someone is, whether we are not in the hall, whether we have a quorum or we do not have a quorum, given that both are allowed. I think that then the electronic vote would be fully resolved as the vote was decided by hand-lifting. Here's just my suggestion or remark, so let's think about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19668	Thank you, fellow Boric. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19669	Yes, thank you, dear colleague, for your suggestion. Of course, all the proposals will be taken into account, that we will have a special debate and that we will invite all the representatives' clubs to be read with individual proposals. This amendment was launched solely by allowing new State Secretarys to be able to present here the government's views and the working bodies' sessions. Of course, all the other many suggestions that will come in the debate and from the club representatives will be discussed at the special session of the Committee for the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19670	Thank you very much. It is absolutely certain that there will be discussions on the Rules of Procedure, all observed difficulties that are happening to us in the work of the plenary session will need to be completed. We also have certain examples that can improve the work on committees, so we will certainly discuss the Rules of Procedure both in the weeks and months to come. Now we're going to a club debate. The HDZ Representatives' Club and esteemed counterpart Drazen Bosnjakovic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19671	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will, of course, support the amendments to the Rules of Procedure because these changes are really just technical. One law abolished the deputy minister's place, instead we have a secretary of state, and without some great philosophy, we have reacted here as the Committee on the Constitution and we immediately propose amendments to the Rules of Procedure. But on the trail of all this that's been said here, I would like to suggest the same thing on behalf of the HDZ Club that we begin discussions on any future changes to our Rules of Procedure because there are certain gaps, there are certain misunderstandings, so I think we should settle this in one good spirit. The Rules of Procedure should be resolved by one consensus, not by imposing, not by voting, but by all taking part in this debate, we should assess what is good and what can affect the quality of the debate in this House, but also by the picture we provide in these discussions in public. I don't know that it takes such a large number of replicas, whether it takes replicas when the proposer proposes and explains the law and that because we all have the opportunity to discuss, whether on behalf of the club, whether to tell each other everything that we disagree with, all that is affirmative, so that these are things that need to be further analyzed and evaluated. There are certain gaps, and in the very constitutive session of the Parliament, I think there are provisions that need to be improved, explained. We saw in that last term that there was some uncertainty in the constitution and that it was the same thing as certain questions. It is not too much to go after it, but simply to get into one debate, let's get into one piece of work, questions will open up, as Boris said, there is another whole series and in one team effort to gather from all clubs, and then maybe start a working group after that. Afterwards, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system has been legitimately legitimated to draw up a joint proposal that we would accept here in a good spirit and consensus. It seems to me that a single step has always been made in many Assembly meetings, amendments to the Rules of Procedure and all these changes have been made every time I think they have been welcomed and have improved their work. So here's our assembly of Parliament, I think that in the future, I think that we should devote a very good amount of time to this issue in which we should evaluate everything that is ready to change as an institute, so that we can approach it in one way where we will all try to improve work together because that is one framework where we all perform and where we have to make the best institutes so that we can actually send from this place good laws and laws that will be in the well-being of both citizens and businessmen, and we can only do that if the debates are okay and if we have good frameworks and normative that we can work in one good and quality way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19672	Thank you very much. We've had another reported individual debate of a distinguished colleague, Maras, but unfortunately he's not here, so there's no discussion then. That concludes this debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19673	The next item is the proposal for a Rules of Procedure to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The proposal is proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. The debate is closed. I stress that Article 252 is in line. The rules of procedure for the adoption of this law require a semi-half majority of all MPs 76. I am voting on the draft Rules of Procedure amending the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Please engage in the vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes are 115 for, 7 abstentions and 4 against the adopted Rules of Procedure on Amendments of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19674	So let's move on to the next item of the agenda, which is: - Proposal for a decision on the discharge of the deputy attorney general. The applicant shall be the Advocate General on the basis of Article 14. The law of the Attorney General. The material was delivered to the boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the report at the session. I would ask the applicant's representative to further explain that proposal. Here with us is the attorney general of the esteemed Laura Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19675	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on the Advocate General prescribes that the Croatian Assembly will discharge the duties of Deputy Advocate General before the end of the time it was elected if it so requests. Mr. Mario Krešić, he applied for a resolution to be able to continue his scientific teaching career and professional development at the Faculty of Law in Zagreb. I note that Kresic was in charge of running the affairs of the national preventive mechanism and the General Affairs Service and that he was really doing his job in quality, which I am sincerely thanking him for. Following this, on the basis of the personal request made by Mr. Marija Kresić, the provisions of Article 14(4) of Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013, I propose that the Croatian Assembly decide which discharges Mr. Maria Kresic's responsibilities as Deputy Attorney-General. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19676	Thank you very much. We have a registered club of HDZ representatives and a distinguished colleague Irena Petrijevcanin Vukasanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19677	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's what we heard from Madam Vidovic's attorney-general, so it's a solution to her own request that we propose to accept because it's technical. As we know, the Ombudsman's Office gives recommendations, opinions, proposals and warnings to the national authorities and bodies of the local (regional) and regional self-government units. We know that the Attorney General's Office is acting in accordance with the Constitution and the three laws, and as we have heard here, the deputy has been in charge of a national preventive mechanism that has just been established with the aim of preventing torture and other inhumane proceedings and punishment in places for persons deprived of liberty. Therefore, since we have heard that the deputy has submitted a resolution on his own request, as the Ombudsman of the HDZ Club has said, it will accept this resolution as it is on its own request and since the gentleman is leaving for another post that is incompatible with the existing one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19678	Thank you very much. We have an individual discussion of a distinguished colleague of Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19679	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. I think she'd be the attorney general since she's... The Croatian Parliament should explain the reasons why two people have left her office on their own initiative. So a while ago, she was abandoned by her deputy attorney, Mrs. Novak, now leaving Mr. Kresic and one and the other in her papers where they wrote why they gave special resignations Mrs. Novak had written a lot more. So it's about the very impaired, severely violated interpersonal relationship, so the lawyer's civil servant's behaviour towards her first associates in the way she should protect the citizens from that kind of behavior, and eventually she herself acts like that. Therefore, it is very indicative when, in one place of good and better paid to the occupier of the occupier, two lawyers or deputies leave within a relatively short period of time from the same prosecutor. So there's something wrong, there's something wrong. There are a number of complaints from the office about what's going on and how it treats employees, and what's most important is you have black on white, but gentlemen please read it, so there are both of them from one and another deputy reasons why they're leaving the attorney general's office. It's not just because they're going somewhere else, they're going away because of violated human relations, and because they can't work because of the lawyer's mother-in-law's relationship with their first associates. I think it's something that's worrying. And I know we won't get an honest answer here, because it would be hard for Mrs. Laura Vidovic to admit everything she does in her own office and why her first associates are leaving her.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19680	Thank you. Would you like to respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19681	Thank you very much. I'll answer very briefly. As far as salaries or high incomes are concerned, the deputy attorney generals are coefficienting below the level of ministerial assistants, so it is actually very difficult to get high-quality state officials who understand their job in terms of service rather than in terms of power and duty. As far as you said, numerous complaints from office employees, I would very much like to hear and see them in person. On the contrary, what I have experienced in my office so far is really very much the support of the office’s employees and tenants. Especially with regard to Mr. Marija Kresic, he asked for a solution to return to the Faculty of Law and could advance his calling since he had been denied it over the past year and a half in which he was trying to achieve it, so I have no further comments there. Thank you very much. In any case, I remain open to cooperation and dialogue in all situations that you may consider controversial about the work of the office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19682	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19683	So once again, I only ask my fellow MPs to read and resign Mrs. Novak as well as the resignation of Mr. Kresic, who, in their resignations, speak about the fact that they could not find common language with the lawyer around the work in the Office of the Attorney General himself, and I think that this is the only lawyer so far that two deputies are leaving in a very short period of time. I say once again, of course, that she does not expect Mrs. District Attorney-General to come here publicly and say what she does and how she works in her office, how she treats her employees, especially her deputies. But the fact is that two deputies are leaving within a very short period of time from one of the attorney generals is saying enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19684	Thank you very much. Do you still want to finish? No, I don't. Then we end this very interesting debate. We'll certainly have a chance to talk about this at some other points when it comes to the order and report on the work of the attorney general, so thank you all for the debate. I'm the one who's locking her up. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19685	The proposal for a decision, the next item, is the proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the Deputy Advocate General. She's the lawyer's mother-in-law's mother-in-law. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on a proposal for a Decision to relieve the Deputy Advocate General. Please engage in the vote. The vote is over. I find that the majority of votes are 124 for, 3 abstentions and without prejudice to a decision on the resolution of the Deputy Advocate General in the text as proposed by the Advocate General.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19686	We move to the next item of the agenda, which is - The final draft law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the part of the Croatian Parliament, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 34. The proposed act shall be submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to the boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. You received their reports at the session. I would now like to ask the representative of the motionary, distinguished colleague Michael Škaric, State Secretary of the Ministry of Administration to explain that proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19687	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the honourable MPs and MPs. I'll be brief, I hope. So, uh... for the adoption of this law is contained in Article 88(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The law suggests that the distinguished Croatian Parliament, the distinguished House of Powers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section. As is well known, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been authorised to regulate its regulations on the issues of current economic policy from the part of the Croatian Parliament, except for changes in the state budget and tax regulation, and those issues which only the Croatian Parliament can regulate under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The constitutional provision contains a certain limit, i.e. that the Government of the Republic of Croatia cannot regulate issues relating to the development of the Constitution of established human rights and fundamental freedoms, national rights, electoral system, structure, detour and way of working of state bodies and local self-government, and that authority only contains the power to regulate issues of the current economic policy. Such power was also limited by a provision under which the Government of the Republic of Croatia can use this power only at a time when the Croatian Parliament does not meet. This is the current regulation of this issue and it is basically extended by this bill to be extended in the following year. The current power expired on 1 October 2016 because of the expiry of the period of one year when such power was granted to the Government of the Republic. The applicant assesses that he still needs to be given the legal authority to adopt regulations on the basis of legal authority but limited as so far, i.e. only during the period when the Croatian Parliament does not meet regularly, and for the period when the Croatian Parliament is disbanded or its term of office has expired. The Proposer stresses that such a law is in fact restrictively using a constitutional provision that gives the possibility to be empowered, that the Government should be empowered, regardless of the time of the meeting of the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, this Law uses that constitutional authority in a restrictive manner by allowing the Government to regulate those issues by its regulations only at a time when the Croatian Parliament is not sitting or when it is dissolved. when his term of office expired. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19688	Thank you, too. There's no replica. We have a club of representatives who applied that is the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community and distinguished colleague Marija Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19689	Thank you, well-respected deputy president of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us a proposal of a common law. According to the rapporteur, the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is set out in Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which states that the Croatian Parliament may, for the most part, authorise the Government of the Republic of Croatia, for a period of one year at a time, to regulate certain issues from the Parliament's section, except those related to the development of the Constitution of established human rights, fundamental freedoms, national rights, electoral system, organisation, detour and way of working on state bodies and local self-government. In accordance with the second and third subparagraphs of the same Article, the Constitution of the Regulation may not act backwards and shall cease to apply within a period of one year from the date of the given power unless the Croatian Parliament decides otherwise. The previous Law on the Authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in the Croatian Parliament's section of the regulations, as the rapporteur also said, was authorised by the Government to settle certain issues from economic policy and, of course, from the Parliament's section. In addition to changes to the state budget and tax regulation, as well as those referred to in Article 88. The Constitution. Since this law has ceased to apply this proposal that we are discussing today, we are also proposing the adoption of a law with the same restrictions and, of course, the Proposer assesses that it is necessary to pass such a law in order to continue to be adopted by the Government in the period when the Croatian Parliament does not be able to adopt those laws for which it has jurisdiction under these restrictions, and if necessary at that time. Of course, this power would again have limited effect and could only be applied at the time when the Croatian Parliament does not meet with the government's obligation to all such laws, all such regulations to re-emerge to the Croatian Parliament for confirmation. As a consequence, the end of the regular session of the Assembly is i.e. On 15 December this year, very close to the HDZ Club considers it justified to adopt this law in an emergency procedure in order to prevent the formation of legal voids and enable the Government to take part more effectively in the exercise of power during the period when the Assembly does not meet the regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19690	Thank you, too. No one answered the line, so we've exhausted this subject. And I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Since we worked extremely quickly today, there was a relatively small debate we will now take a break by 15 hours since we planned to continue our work in 15 hours. The topic is the annual report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2015. The promoter has other obligations and planned to come at 3:00 so we can't call him before and he can't come now. It will be Goran Matesic, president of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. Since he's not here until 3:00, I'm declaring a break and we're going to continue with that agenda point, which we'll probably end up with today. Thank you very much. It's 11:00. 40 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19691	The next item in the vote is the final draft law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate occasional issues from the part-line of the Croatian Parliament, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 34. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the government submitted an amendment. In accordance with Article 199 of the Treaty on the The Rules of Procedure on such an amendment must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. Please vote on who's in favour of having a debate on the government's amendment. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes are 121 for, five abstentions against a decision to hold a debate on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I ask the applicant's representative to further explain the amendment. Michael Škarica, State Secretary at the Ministry of Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19692	I would like to thank the Honorable President, the Honorable MPs and the MPs. The proposed amendment is indeed about one detail. In the light of the observed practice of adopting such a legal text, it is such that in law itself it would specify the date of its entry into force in order to specify the constitution of a government power that can last for a maximum period of one year. In order to avoid confusion, it is common that the legal text of this law which is otherwise adopted each year contains a specific date. However, in the proposal, the first draft law provides for such a date on 1 December. As we know, the law cannot retroactively enter into force before it is published in the National Journal, and therefore the Government of the Republic of Croatia submits an amendment that is amended and reads "This law enters into force on the first day of its publication in the National Journals." I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19693	Thank you, Mr. Scissor. I'm opening a debate on the government's amendment. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the amendments to the government. Please engage in the vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes are 121 in favour, 5 abstentions and, with one vote against, we have accepted the government's amendment and it becomes an integral part of the final bill. Now we're going to vote on the law itself. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section. Please engage in the vote. The vote is over. I find that the majority of votes are 117 for, 8 abstentions and one against the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia's power to regulate certain issues in the Croatian Parliament's section.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19694	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] We will continue to work now and it will naturally be club representatives. The first will be the HDZ representative's club on behalf of which the honourable representative will speak. ... And it's not that. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] I thought it was already done. Nothing, then we start from the beginning with a point so on - Annual report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2015 The Report submitted by the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures pursuant to Article 18. Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. The material was delivered to you in boxes. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy, and you received a report at the session. Does the applicant want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear President of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, Mr Goran Matesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19695	Thank you very much. Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, you have before you a 13th Report on the work of the State Commission as the chairman said based on the regulations with the content prescribed by law in the State Commission. I think it is no longer necessary to speak, to realize that it is an appeal body in matters of public procurement, that it has been established as an independent regulatory body to be submitted to the public and to the Croatian Parliament for a report on its work. So of the things that should be pointed out, the total plan for 2015 was 8 million 430 thousand kuna, that 87.83% were spent. As far as human potential is concerned, the situation was quite regular after last year. We've been working with full capacity. In 2015, the State Commission handled 1251 complaints which amounted to less than 10% of the public procurement procedures published. This is a slight reduction compared to the previous year resulting in, among other things, an increase in the amount of compensation for the initiation of the procedure and an increase in the thresholds for public procurement procedures. According to the stages of the procedure, the largest number of complaints against the selection decisions is one twenty percent against the documents, which is insufficient because, in that case, in the selection phase, the documentation is not sufficiently controlled and it can be said to be less quality. As for the type of decision, the appeal is dismissed in some 28% of the cases which are certainly evidenced, the complaint is dismissed as a messy what, and it is messy if the complainant does not pay the fee and does not highlight all the essential elements of the complaint. It is not to believe that people do not know how to make a complaint, so this high percentage is always a aspect of public procurement manipulation, the time of suspension of the decision to choose and the possibility of some negotiation and talks is open. The appeal is passed in 37% of cases. It should also be said that as regards the length of the appeal procedure that we are from the moment of completion of the appeal case, so when the subject is able to discuss it 18 days would be in a comparative display to other Member States, the Croatian State Commission is among the fastest. A list of suppliers who have 5 and more appeal procedures with percentages of success, i.e. failure is some kind of black list that sometimes acts stimulatingly, sometimes has its function in any case. The most common reasons for making a complaint are the most frequently characteristic errors of the contracting authorities and tenderers, approximately for those who have followed the previous report very similar or almost the same, which is something that is not fundamentally changing. If there isn't some kind of, uh, special-sighted situation. As far as the rulings of the State Commission are concerned, there may be a judicial dispute before the Administrative Courts. Four regional first-degree courts are in charge. In the 15th year, 98 lawsuits were filed, some less than 10% compared to the number of decisions made by the State Commission. What is a problem with the practice of legal practice in public procurement are different decisions of different administrative courts and that is some problem that will need to be solved in the future, whether in the context of administrative courts that should follow their practice horizontally or in some other way, but here is actually the problem to be referred to. As far as the rulings of administrative courts are concerned, as you can see, almost 60% of the lawsuits are dismissed and confirmed by the State Commission's decisions. An appeal is adopted in some 26, 27%, which actually states that decisions by the state commission in those cases in which there is a dispute on law regulates these cases legally in some 97.98%. The fee for the initiation of an appeal procedure which is not the State Commission's revenue but the revenues of the state budget amounted to 21.5 billion kuna in this year and that is the amount which, of course, exceeds the budget of the state commission. There is one type of case that the State Commission is specifically processing, so in a statistical sense it is specifically processing and part of that report is here, and these are the subjects of the public procurement declared by the complaint, these are the items financed by the European Structural Investment Funds. The characteristics of these procurement procedures are given here which are the most complex procedures and which include goods, works and services that best show the lack of an existing legal system, and in some ways not only regulations but also users. The estimated value of these items in the appeal procedure is 19 billion kuna. The characteristics of the procedure are given here and the evaluation is given and the problems are indicated. And the last part, according to us, is the most valuable part of this report that you will now adopt and discuss in the next few days about the Public Procurement Act, so I don't have to say much anymore about the state of the public procurement, which includes the assessment of the state of the rules, the situation in legal protection and institutional as regards the appeal body. To a large extent, all these objections that have been repeated since last year, i.e. legal gaps and shortcomings, were largely adopted in the draft bill, and hence the need for me to speak more significantly today. We should just say that we have some new challenges ahead of us, and this is from you know that public procurement is advertised exclusively through an electronic advert and that electronic delivery is an option that has now been binding since the beginning of next year. This gives birth to the use of electronic tenders so far has shown certain shortcomings that are in some way indicated in the report that should be resolved because the electronic delivery will soon lead to an electronic complaint, which means that the deadlines of action will be shortened so that at least no more time will be wasted. And the most time so far has been spent on postal communication and demand for the delivery of documentation, now to a significant extent wastes, however, the significant problems of these institutes that need to be regulated legally remain. This would be in the shortest lines of the State Commission's 2015 report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19696	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The first one will be the HDZ Representatives' Club on behalf of which the distinguished representative Josip Boris will speak. I'm sorry, we had replicas. I'm completely out of my mind and two of them. She will be the first to be the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19697	Thank you, Vice President. So I responded to the replica, Mr Matesic, for the simple reason that, as president of the National Council for monitoring the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy, I specifically follow the work of your commission, and I expected that you might look back in part in your presentation and then, since this year we have experienced a truly one shower from the European Parliament, which, according to research conducted by the RAND Institute, placed us among the three most corrupt countries when it comes to public procurement. In particular, the fact that in your part you have touched public procurement relating to European funds, you have mentioned the value of 19 billion kuna, and the European Commission has also announced that in Croatia 42% of competitions related to the financing of European funds have been cancelled, which speaks to what extent these procedures have not been implemented in a quality way, and I am particularly interested in whether the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures has compared and find the European Commission and all that it has done and what it has learned from this and what recommendations it has made and whether these recommendations have been adopted in the new Public Procurement Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19698	Thank you. The respected Goran Matesic, president of the commission, will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19699	Thank you for your inquiry. The state commission is not a political body, the state commission is a quasi judicial body, an appeal body, its function itself is anti-corruption. The fact that disputes on legality, i.e. illegality, that these decisions and everything other than Croatian courts, although Croatian courts are partly driven by only private disputes, and the dispute on public procurement is a public private dispute, and then all decisions by the State Commission back are publicly published, publicly available, and it is also an anti-corruption effect that spreads even knowledge of legal practice, which enables predictability, so in fact, I specifically did not talk about it. There is something about this report, and I think that this fact that the register of the State Commission's case as well as the decisions made by the State Commission is, in contrast to the example of the courts, publicly available to testify about a different transparent way of conducting the dispute. So the State Commission is about something called public procurement policy that you can't ask us.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19700	Thank you. The Republic was also expressed by distinguished representative Angelko Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19701	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here is the President of the Commission stated that the decision of the State Commission could be brought before the competent court and that the total of those judgments was 94.83% in favour of the Commission's decision, and only 5.16% of the cases were disputed that individual contractors allowed themselves to do anything and that we should support the Commission's work certainly speaks and data, that it is, for example, one municipal company from Varkon d.d. Varazdin even selected an important data provider in one of his tenders, declared the unit prices a secret. Well, it's just that things like this don't happen to us and that the customers don't allow everything, and I think that we should support the Commission's work and certainly support them in further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19702	Thank you. And yet finally, the distinguished representative Josip Boric on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19703	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the State Commission. Let's also say that we look back at the Croatian Democratic Community's annual report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2015. We've already discussed this report once this year. It was the 2014 report somewhere in the second month, so here in one year we have twice an opportunity to discuss the report of a very important state commission. What is certainly most important is that this report is a real demonstration of the state of public procurement based on broad experience, based on an analysis of public procurement procedures in which there is doubts about the legality of the procedures carried out and the decisions taken. This report is also a good analysis of many of these procedures and ends with messages that are always aimed at improving the functioning of public procurement systems. The State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures is an independent and independent body responsible for resolving complaints concerning public procurement procedures, concession procedures and procedures for selecting a private partner in public-private partnership projects. It is especially good that all decisions made in the appeal proceedings before the State Commission are publicly published on the website, which certainly helps in what we constantly mention in this House, which is the transparency of work and certainly the other important part of the fight against corruption. We think there's a real state commission that's making big moves. It is also commendable that this report publicly available legal practice, which makes legal protection even in one part predictable, means that when you go into the process more or less based on experiences more or less we know that some of the proceedings will end. And if I have a comment on one part of the report that you say that on the website, the register of procedures is updated daily, however, some examples suggest that it is not. For example, we have one solution that was adopted on December 22nd and is only published next year on January 29th. I'll talk about it a little bit and later just on the example. In 2015 we have a decline in the number of cases received compared to 2014 which is the result of obviously some changes to the laws that we passed in 2013. The result is also an increase in the amount of compensation for the initiation of the appeal procedure, but certainly also the increase in the thresholds for the bagatel purchases, I say what we have introduced into the law in 2013. The number of complaints received in 2015 was 1137 of which 112 complaints were related to public procurement and 25 at the very award of concessions. Of this, 815 complaints about the decision to choose while 223 are on the announcement and documentation for the competition. Certainly both in one case and in another, the statement of complaints has stopped the procurement process and that is the problem that bothers all of the mayors, mayors, mayors, and to the state level as well as the law itself is good or with certain deficiencies itself, the appeal itself simply stops the procedure and in some way makes it difficult to realize any project or any purchase. Such complaints were 91%. According to the types of decision, the largest number of 370 are decisions on the adoption of the appeal, however, 281 complaints refer to decisions which are rejected while the 229 decision concerns decisions which are rejected. We can conclude that over 50 complaints are either rejected or rejected. The number of complaints adopted precedes HEP. This is something that is constantly emerging from year to year as a public company that obviously has some problems in these proceedings, I say the number of their adopted complaints is as much as 20 according to this report and the table of representations of the number of appeals cases in relation to the handlers who had five or more appeals before the State Commission in 2015. However, those contracting authorities whose number of complaints was received are increasingly concerned by the total number of public procurement procedures, for example. 60%. It is certainly an interesting topic and duration of the appeal procedure. Average time from the receipt of an appeal to the publication of a decision of about 38 days. That was let's say it was the motive of frequent discussions here in the Croatian Parliament and the common motive for amending the Law on Public Procurement. How to reduce the number of days from receiving the complaint until the decision is announced? And whatever was going on, and the part where the number of members of the state commission just increased during the last government, simply points out that we have managed to say all of this in a few years to reduce this whole process by just one single day. The average time from the date of completion and the appeal subject to decision is 18 days. If we enter a little more detail into the register, let's say that the complaint on the choice of the most favourable bidder for the construction of a sewer system in a city on the coast which was also an EU project worth 141 million kuna was received on September 1st 2015 and after a series of rushes from the contracting authorities and after the 400 other complaints that came after that decision was made only on December 22, 2015 and the notice was made in such a decision only on January 29th on the portal of the State Commission. That's the example I'm saying where we're talking about the update, but what happened? All of this has resulted in the inability to implement such a project, it is not small, it is 141 million kuna and, of course, by 31 December, these money has simply failed and everything else remains on the burden of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia because the project will no longer be financed by EU money. That money has not been used and we can irrevocably record it as lost for the Republic of Croatia. We all know that for the work of the State Commission the resources are provided in the state budget and that the State Commission has no other income than the revenue from the budget and the compensation paid for the initiation of the public procurement appeal procedure is directly paid into the state budget and is the revenue of the state budget. When it comes to funding and the human resources problem, it should be said that it is for employees to allocate 6.3 million for which it has been implemented with less than 85% of the funds where we can determine that the commission has been in a particular work and savings. It should be said that the basis, with the basis of the fee for the initiation of the appeal procedure and the administrative fees set out by this particular commission in the state budget, was almost 21.5 million kuna, which is over 13 million kuna more than is necessary for the work of the state commission. As far as we can see from the report 31, although the regulation provides for 48 jobs. It is important to note that the complexity of the work of this state body is constantly and significantly increasing, as is the condition of the subject-matter of public procurement financed from the European Structural and Investment Funds and, moreover, the need for the application of international law in the appeal procedure, so the need for and strengthening the administrative capacity of the State Commission itself is continuously present. Since Croatia's entry into the EU, there has been more intensive use of European Structural and Investment Funds, the use of these funds is directly related to the time limits, the high assessment of the value of purchases, the extremely complex procedures, the extensive and complex documentation, the procedure is usually attended by economic operators from EU Member States, and the public procurement procedures are under the supervision of the EU and after their completion by criteria different from those in domestic legislation and with the possibility of revoking those same funds that they oversee. There is an increased visible involvement of expert advisors including lawyers in public procurement procedures, which demonstrates that this system is increasingly professionalised and that indeed people with high expertise are needed. on one higher level. Furthermore, public procurement is indeed an important anti-corruption tool that has been constantly and for a long time upgraded. The improvements are visible but we must admit there are still criticisms, there are still some problems and some indetermination leading to a delay in the process. It is clear that the legal basis is certainly the Public Procurement Act, the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, but there are also, of course, several sublegal acts in the form of regulations and regulations. The items processed during the appeal procedure are the source of good information on shortcomings, difficulties, obstacles, disturbances and phenomena that are exposed to both the legal framework governing the material and legal part of public procurement, concessions and public-private partnership and legal protection and the rules governing the status of the state commission. We are witnessing that a new Public Procurement Act has been sent to the parliamentary procedure, which will certainly bring numerous newspapers into the area of public procurement by its application. This law is primarily the result of the work of a professional public group of people, the very participants of public procurement procedures, and we think that it will indeed be one of the fundamental reforms of the regulatory framework in the field of public procurement, which must be simple and effective, which will save the citizens' money, which must provide the best value for money, which will make more use of electronic tools and encourage as many economic operators to participate in the public procurement market. Some of the news of the law is certainly the most economically favourable offer, the single European procurement documentation, the reduction of administrative burdens for companies by almost 80%, the introduction of a single deadline for appeal, the reduction of the fee for appeal, the strengthening of the power of the State Commission itself and many other newspapers in which we will certainly discuss more in this home when the law comes to debate. As far as the HDZ Club itself is concerned, we will support this report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2015. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19704	Thank you. We have a few replicas. He's the first of his distinguished MPs, Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19705	Thank you very much. You told your colleague Boric that the DCOM website was speeded up and daily that information appeared and that there was a lot of things visible. However, it is obvious that only two legal considerations can be published on the website of the DCOM during 2015 and that one relating to the payment of the fee for the initiation of the appeal procedure and the other relating to the allocation of the costs of the appeal procedure in the event of partial adoption of the complaint. And we need to know that the law lays down and stipulates that decisions in which the state commission deviates from legal understanding, if there is an unequal practice or some established practice, should further explain the reasons for such decisions. Despite this decision-making, D.C. did not explain the reasons for the deviation from the established practice in any solution in 2015. And we need to know that 1/3 of budget funds only in the Republic of Croatia have to go through public procurement. If the order was introduced, today Croatia would not have a deficit, and that is clear to the DCOM gentlemen. I don't see that kind of enormous transparency, and that's visible from what I've said only two are meanings and it's without justification because of the inequality of decisions that are not reasoned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19706	Thank you. The honourable representative Josip Boric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19707	Thank you very much. My colleague Bulj, I say every year we discuss the report to the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures and the fact is that at the level of the year somewhere in public procurement procedures there are about 40 billion kunas, which is indeed one demanding process and of course all levels from local, regional and state level have their own task in doing so. The law may be the best, but there is one human factor that then affects many things in the law, both human factor and within the state commission itself, which can obviously bring what you have talked about in your own way as a specific solution. However, what is more important for us and I think certainly for all of us in the future is this new Public Procurement Act, which is in the process of working and colleagues from MOST, one large part and which will clearly reform the entire public procurement system with a lot of news that I have just said so little about. But it will be really interesting then to follow all the comments because a lot of things will be newspapers, and of course the state commission that gets and this law will have to play a stronger role in this whole process certainly have to apply new knowledge and new skills in order not to do this kind of thing that you have now cited here as an example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19708	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Klarin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19709	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I fully support your debate. There he would warn of his Sibenik-Knin County, you said it concerns us all who have more than 60% of the complaints. Our Sibenik-Knin County, my county from which I come, had only five public procurement procedures and three of them were adopted. So I think you should warn Mr. Spider Mayor who is also president of the Association of Countys at the level of the Republic of Croatia to keep a close eye on public procurement in his county. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19710	Thank you. The honourable representative Josip Boric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19711	Thank you very much. I don't know why you're mad at your mayor. If I followed him somewhere you didn't even invite him to your solemn session of the municipality and therefore you obviously had a great reason so that you probably and this information bothers you and the fact is that it's not just him who might be conducting the public procurement procedure so... one major part of these procedures in some way adopted as established. There are them at all levels from local to state level, and I don't think anyone needs to be named exactly because let's just say I'm always worried about HEP. Every year, they are always the fastest to complain about their actions, and surely there is everything there is, and at least what needs to be, and that is certainly the knowledge of the public procurement procedures themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19712	And the last replica is the respected representative of Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19713	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I'd just like to replicate what's defined here, and that's the length of the appeal procedure. The duration of the appeal procedure has also been characterised in this report as such that Croatia is safe after the duration of the legal protection procedure at the very top. At the very top there is also damage to the economies as well as to the contracting authorities, but all these complaints that have been sent many times are complaints without the right... those that are rejected o.k. We understand that and it's obvious. However, it is worrying that we are now going with the new Public Procurement Act that has passed and done Croatia great damages, and I would like to see how much damage it has done in millions or billions of kunas or euros has been done in return or not using European funds, since the tenders have been annulled that the new ones have not happened, that the funds have gone away and that the segment has had to compensate for the money from the national budget or even the full amount to be provided in the national budget, given that certain things have been rejected in such appeal procedures. I don't know why the duration of the given deadline is as fixed as in all other countries of 30 days. Here is the average time limit of 38 days and I think it is a lot and more because 2014 was even 130 days as far as I could see in the previous report the deadline for the analysis of certain cases in the complaint. So I think it may be reduced, but we're still at the top of that appeal period and the damages that have been done should be defined here as how much money we've had... from the European funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19714	Thank you. The respected Josip Boric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19715	Thank you very much, Vice President. Col. Djakic's fact is that 38 days were both last year and this year and that in this House we discussed in 2013 exactly the Law on Public Procurement and the State Commission itself, which then increased from 5 to 8, so we said we would increase it, so that we could speed up those deadlines. However, the fact is that it is not achieved and that there are manifestly those who are averaged for 38 days, and there are those who may pass faster, and there are those who come a little later. I have cited only one example where we lost 140 million kunas from the European funds for 1 case of construction of a drain system in a coastal city. The freshest example that came up recently that cost us almost half a billion is from the former Ministry of Agriculture led by a SDP minister where it was evident after all the procedures that tried to please within that entire system and that in some ways we believed we did not lose, but at least in some way it happened that by negligence or intent it might have occurred that this money had simply not begun to be used. I think that this must be an example to us all of how something must not be done and what we know is that we are in this very means under clear European Union control and that there is nothing that can go "below the radar" as it is said, say, clearly respecting the Public Procurement Act, and we will see, I say, when in the procedure, i.e. When the assembly begins to discuss the new law that it really offers one clear, complete reform of the public procurement system where, I say, the state commission itself will get some greater powers, but also speed up the process and many of the things that we have so far found to be in some way blocking the public procurement process itself and that we are wasting both time and resources right in the process of appeal.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19716	Thank you. The next club of representatives will be a bridge of independent lists on behalf of which the distinguished representative Maro Kristic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19717	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, honourable representatives of the promoters, colleagues and fellow MPs. On behalf of the Representatives' Club, I will refer to the Annual Report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. In the previous meeting of the Croatian Parliament, we had the opportunity to discuss the reports of a number of state institutions from which we could see that the public procurement processes were just characterised as problematic because of the intricacies, which because of corruption, which because of the lack of determination of existing laws millions of kunas of budget money went to the wind. I'll talk about this report and talk about a few chapters. First of all, I want to say that there are a lot of positive elements in this report. But I'm going to look back at those elements that I think might be better, and I'm asking you to consider them purely as a recommendation for improving your work processes. So first of all, I'm going to say something about unequal practice, or legal uncertainty, that's what my colleagues used to say. However, from the web. DCOM's website can be seen that during 2015 DCOM published only two legal considerations, and that is what my colleague Bulj said, one of them refers to the payment of the fee for the initiation of the appeal procedure, and the other concerns the allocation of the costs of the appeal procedure in the event of partial adoption of the action. When we put it in the context that almost 40 billion kunas of budget money have been spent through public procurement procedures in 2015, or not budget money, but this represents 1/3 of the state budget, it is very important to bring this legal practice into line, and legal uncertainty and arbitral decision-making on these processes is inadmissible because it generates additional costs for the state budget. In fact, the fact that it reveals and where there is a failure in the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures is on page 6 of the Reports, which says that the DCOM has established a professional service to monitor practices and conduct in court cases, and it is stated that of the 8 systematicized jobs, there is practically none. Therefore, in 31 employees of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, none of them are in charge of monitoring practices, and it is therefore logical that there are quite frequent deviations in these findings. The second chapter he would be talking about is not using the possibility of oral debate. Therefore, the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures has the legal possibility to hold an oral hearing to clarify the complex factual situation or legal issue at the request of the party or on official duty. The 2015 Report shows that a thousand 251 items were received, and despite the complex factual situation in cases and despite the requests of the parties, no oral debate was held. In addition, DCOM shall also have the legal authority to invite experts from a specific legal or other professional area at a Council meeting. Out of the solved thousands of 101 cases, not once at a Council meeting has one expert been invited to help with certain issues served, so it seems so strange to me when we can talk about, say, the few people working on it can decide equally well on the technical characteristics of a voltage measure transformer and some of the characteristics of some other materials. So there is really a need for expertise and expertise. At the same time, the report shows that the emphasis is placed on short deadlines in which the State Commission decides. This should not be some indication of the success of the work of the State Commission. It's kind of an impression that over time, in fact, a quantity is trying to make up for the quality of its actions. I therefore believe that, in future, in their practice, this institute of oral debate should be used as often as possible, regardless of what is likely to little and stretch these decision-making procedures, but the decisions made will certainly be better quality and there will be fewer complaints. The third area of which I would also like to demonstrate is the possibility of filing indictments. According to the Law, the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures is also responsible for filing indictments for infringements prescribed by the Public Procurement Act. They're for example. the following infringements, if they share the value of the procurement case with a view to avoiding the application of the law, if at least one authorised representative of the contracting authority holding a valid certificate in the field of public procurement is not involved in the preparation of the public procurement procedure, if the contract is concluded by the contracting authority and the framework agreement with the tenderers which must be excluded from the procurement procedure or whose offer was obliged to refuse on the basis of the results of the review and the assessment of the tenders, provided that they conclude a public procurement contract or framework agreement which is not in accordance with the conditions of certain procurement documents and the chosen offer. According to the 2015 report, the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures adopted 370 complaints, and only two of them were indicted. Given the public opinion that really perceives this public procurement process as one of the cancers of the Croatian society, somehow this relationship between the complaints adopted and the charges brought itself is not very appropriate to me. I think that these charges should certainly be much more, and that there have been many more illegal activities in these proceedings with the characteristics of criminal acts. And also another suggestion, it's about introducing a practice tracking system. The introduction of an information system to monitor and search the practices of the State Commission for the control of public procurement procedures would allow for adequate monitoring of public procurement procedures within the State Commission for the control of public procurement procedures, but on the other hand, it would also enable the search of practices by parties to the procedure and the public to prevent unequal practice and also act on an educational basis to the contracting authority and the tenderer, and would enhance real legal certainty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19718	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19719	Mr Christic means we're talking about 1/3 of the 40 billion kuna budget, we're talking about unequal practice, we're talking about an institution that needs to be controlled and monitored, of course at the end and some proposals towards institutions that are illegal, but we don't see any results here, and we don't see how much money that's been embezzled or we can say that people understand better, alienated to the Croatian people or robbed, we don't see any information here in the report on how many illegal or illegal public procurements were carried out, how much harm and who was responding. Finally, what should be done to come to the institutions of prosecution or those who should be judged by those who did not comply with the Public Procurement Act. We do not have any relevant information, and it is one third of the Croatian budget of the state, so it is a huge amount of money and it is certain that these funds are better controlled would be more competitive, quality producers i.e. products or performers would have the opportunity to develop in the Republic of Croatia and this kind of behaviour in public procurement has literally wiped many entrepreneurs off the face of the earth, if they cannot be competitive in this way, and this is visible. So we can take examples on Croatian highways no domestic performer could access, so we have an example of Croatian iron mills that are not placed in highways. So these are public tenders, i.e. public procurements which have manipulated but have done great damage to this Croatian society, the entrepreneur and, of course, the entire country. So I'd like to ask your answer the way you're thinking, given that I've been listening that there's a solution here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19720	Here will be answered by the esteemed representative Marko Kristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19721	Thank you, dear colleague. Well, first of all, he would like to express his hope that this new Public Procurement Act will close down all anomalies of the existing Public Procurement Act. Surely, apart from these anomalies in the law on public procurement currently in force, many reasons lie in the intricacies of people who carry out public procurement procedures, but certainly in corruption that is rooted not only in these procedures but in general in Croatian society is all present. I personally think that by listening to the presentation in the previous meeting of the Croatian Parliament you will only remember examples of sports halls on which it is practically so we can say stolen one state budget without anyone answering for it. I personally think that in our institutions that have jurisdiction to launch it means to press charges on their own, so institutions will continue to do so should have much more courage because I am sure that out of 40 billion kunas of budget money, a large part should certainly be an element and subject to investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19722	Thank you. Now we'll move on to the next club of representatives, and then let's change Croatia and the SNAGA in the name of which you will speak pardon you've been changing something. The next is then on behalf of the HDS-HSLS Club, the distinguished representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19723	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear President and members of the state commission. My colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to say a few sentences on behalf of the HDS-HSLS Club and I have to say right at the beginning that I'll probably speak a little differently from some predecessors in this debate. In fact, for many years and for the work that I do in local self-government, I participate in public procurement processes, the laws have changed, the commission has been developed, today we have public procurement in Croatia with which no one is satisfied, nor are those who order, nor are those who report to the competition. And they're all not happy with the citizens because we're basically blocking everything ourselves, and it's probably going to be a much stronger discussion about this issue in a few days when there's going to be a new Public Procurement Act, but lethargy views and such a quick look at it already tell me that we're not going to make much progress, and that even after the adoption of this law, there will be a big problem again, and that Croatia is threatening to lose huge money, which has already been a little word here primarily in competitions funded from the EU from European funds. And you should think about what and how to do next, how to enable competitions and how to make it possible for domestic companies to report to these competitions in accordance with the law without any adjustment, because in most cases we do not make them impossible in this business. So, as I have said in my knowledge, consultations, conversations, definitely our Public Procurement Act does not respond either to those who question the competition or to those who report to them. The state commission is therefore only one of the possible obstacles to the whole process and it is certain that something must be changed there. On the basis of frequent talks at meetings and with the owners and therefore in that other work in local self-government and in public procurement, I would ask the contracting authorities some answers from the representatives of the State Commission to some specific questions. So I ask you if we can get some answers, because these are the questions that people who are dealing with these purchases who have seen the problem and are asking for public answers. So, why has not been established in fact, they say there are organisations and state commissions but there is no one employed in accordance with the annual work report for 2015, the department of monitoring, the coordination of the practices of the state commission to monitor and coordinate the practice within the State Commission and between the State Commission and administrative courts, the four administrative courts of Zagreb, Osijek, Split and Rijeka and the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia. They say that the lack of this department has been creating problems in practice for years because there is a legal uncertainty about conformity of practice. Further to this question, why is the practice between individual councils of the State Commission not harmonised? The State Commission decides on complaints in three councils each consisting of three members of the State Commission. So some of the boards, by appeal of the bidders, decide explicitly formally, and others are more business-oriented, so that the offerer never knows how to decide by his appeal and this problem results in great legal uncertainty and is inadmissible in reality, but is not only here an economic operator who appears in the competition and is the same with the one who announces the competition. Further, the State Commission does not decide primarily to take into account the principles of public procurement, transparency, economics and efficiency in spending budgets but insists on formalities that do not necessarily lead to the achievement of the principle of public procurement. And this problem creates legal uncertainty because the principles of public procurement are not applied coherently and in the opinion of the economy, and I repeat, in practice, that practice leads to inequality of decisions, which is also inadmissible. Fourth, how and when will better judicial protection be ensured than the decisions of the State Commission? This is not a question for the State Commission, but of course it's a question we have to ask ourselves. The administrative action of the Administrative Court, which decides for a minimum of two years, is particularly the Administrative Court in Zagreb. In administrative disputes against DCOM decisions, there is no effective judicial protection against DCOM decisions. Since public procurement contracts are concluded mostly in one year, in one year or more, or perhaps a little longer, they have been consumed long ago while the Administrative Court decides on the decision of the State Commission so that the ruling of the Administrative Court, which was passed after a few years, no longer means anything to the contracting authority or to the economic operator even when it was taken to his advantage. So, in these few concrete examples, there is a huge discrepancy of both this law and its functioning, and I repeat, there is a huge amount of damage. Today, in Croatia, when we launch a competition, we don't have any minimum security to pass the competition. From the State Commission we get real answers on dozens of pages from which we can't read what we're actually trying to say, we can't figure out why a contest might be cancelled, why a complaint has been accepted or not accepted. I think it would be a good idea for the State Commission to stop writing a novel in this business and a little clearer answer to questions and ultimately speed up the process because it really leads to a stalemate in the development of the economy itself and in the development of the entire Republic of Croatia. I repeat, and I stress, what awaits us when a little more competitions for programmes from European funds, someone here mentioned the drain project, we won't be able to carry out a single tender, we're going to fail building permits, so we're going to have to go to grant for years, we're going to have to do new building permits, and we're not going to withdraw the funds. It is the state of the moment in public procurement in the Republic of Croatia, in which the State Commission has its share. Whether she needs more teamwork, whether we should further strengthen the personnel, if we let's turn it up, let's step it up, let's speed it up because I don't think any of us can afford to waste hundreds and hundreds of millions of dollars and tens of millions of dollars already invested in certain projects. I'm talking about anglomerations, I'm talking about water supply, I'm talking about projects that were launched by Croatian waters, I'm talking about projects that fall like mature pears in competitions, and it hasn't even started the real process of public procurement itself. So I'm not happy with the overall work, but as far as the report itself is concerned, we'll accept the report. It's what it is. Of course the commission works by law, that's all right. Some shifts in relation to two years ago are seen, we know that we were talking back then about a huge blockade of budget money and otherwise in an economy that has been blocked for a number of days and months because the Commission has not decided. But the general thing about public procurement is not good and threatens us with a really big, big damage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19724	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. It is the first to be respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19725	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As one of the obstacles to more successful procurement procedures, you listed the State Commission. I wouldn't agree with that, though. So, for many years now, more than I am a parliamentary representative, I have been following public procurement and it is clear that thanks to the State Commission, the public procurement procedure in Croatia has been more transparent today and that many of the solutions to the complaints brought to the State Commission have been a sort of reading and educational material that has improved public procurement procedures. Therefore, there is still a much bigger problem in public procurement procedures. So, if even under the current law, you have the opportunity to conduct the procedure not on the cheapest, but on the most economically favourable offer. If 99 procedures are conducted in the cheapest way, then you can see that's actually a key problem. So people are not to be tortured, not to be made a decision on the most economically favourable offer if they are not completely clear criteria because it immediately means that someone is going to complain, that the DORH will come, USKOK and explore why someone took the most economically advantageous and not the cheapest offer. Therefore, there is still a lot of work ahead of us where a clear new law will be needed to solve this problem because it casts out the economically cheapest and remains only the most favourable offer. But I think everyone who thinks it will solve all the problems that exist in the public procurement system. So we all agree that public procurement worth 42 billion kuna per year, that 20% of the money is still spent non-transparently, that 20% of the money disappears because all those involved in the public procurement process included that corruption level in the price. And when we add to that another dumping price, unusually low price then let's say that we know why in Babi's Gredi the hole that threatens all the martyrs because the company that won that competition at the dumped price was very quickly ruined.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19726	Thank you. The esteemed representative Branko Hrg will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19727	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, I agree in the good part of what you said. I also think that the State Commission must be, that control must be, that simply this process must be implemented. I also agree with the shift being made, but the fact is that the situation is still not good that we're blocked, that the activities that need to be done once and urgently are disabled, done. You mentioned a pit. I had a case with me in Križevci that the bridge on the state road was destroyed half a year and that no model by the Croatian roads could carry out the procedure to build a bridge. So we have a hole in the Public Procurement Act, we have a problem in these situations. But not just that one. What I've been saying isn't just my attitudes. These are the points of view of a coordinated team which was both by the businessmen and by the contracting authorities. And these are problems that are not malice and malicious. So I'm just bringing them out to point out the problems that exist. I know that the people on the State Commission must have located those problems. But the fact is that there are really diametrically contradictory reasons for very similar procedures that occur in public procurement. Often, we get a very similar situation with the diametrically opposite arguments of the State Commission. Even I really dare say I can prove it that three lawyers read afterwards what the State Commission was going to say and we couldn't figure out what they were going to say. The important thing is that first it is rejected or accepted. But in any case, we need to keep doing it better together, and this kind of debate is ultimately what they're for.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19728	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19729	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Hrg, when we talk about public procurement and implementation of the public administration body, we must also accept responsibility as head of public procurement procedures. For example, in the town of Križevci there is one procedure that is repeated twice in 2016, so this year. It is the implementation of a gas supply tender which has been annulled, or offers that have been accepted by the Commission and should have been accepted by the city, i.e. professional services, be careful now that this one has been rejected because the end of the company did not write about which bank it is concerned and the offer of that bidder has been rejected. So we need to understand that the Public Procurement Act and the new Public Procurement Act should simplify the procedure, i.e. to prevent individual officials from playing with certain procedures and de facto looking for a mistake in order to refuse someone who is cheaper. And that's why here's the advice, I don't know if you're familiar with it. See also in your city about one and the same competition is cancelled twice for banal reasons. Someone on the outside who's looking at it might find it suspicious. It's not about the price, it's not about quality, it's not about deadlines, it's not about banality, and I'm asking the new Public Procurement Act that it's not possible to reject offers in order to possibly at a certain point, I'd say, ignore it, and at another point when you're doing it, you're responding and you think you're getting someone third. Thus, the new Public Procurement Act should be kept in mind that it cannot be annulled without reason, without justifiable reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19730	Thank you. The esteemed representative Branko Hrg will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19731	I'm glad you're so familiar with the work of officials in the town of Križevci. If you think a colleague Maras is wrong there, there's probably no problem, and it's probably one of these shortcomings that I was talking about in the Public Procurement Act, probably the Law does the same thing. If such a thing allows, then no one has sinned, no one has broken. But you have better examples. You have examples of the works being performed, and the contest is yet to be called. You want photo documentation? I can give you that, too. There are examples like that. See, that's what's not good. These things aren't good. If there were any formal errors, it's probably. We had competitions that were reportedly falling due to formal errors by some bidders or something was wrong. I now tell you in advance that there will probably be major problems in agglomeration projects. Are you aware that the town of Križevci in that agglomeration program is somewhere with 150 million kunas that has been invested in project documentation for the water and draining of the town of Križevci and the surrounding municipalities of more than 10 million kunas of Croatian waters, that in the meantime, the construction law has been amended, that these changes to the Construction Act have led to a failure in the law of a single sentence, that the instructions have been given since then by the Minister of Construction that some fictitious maltenes have started work, so that we can preserve construction permits, and then there was that problem when you changed the Law on Excretion, and then everything fell into the water, so we all had to do from the beginning, etc.? He's got a lot of problems. You know, these are a lot bigger problems that I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19732	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19733	Dear colleague Hrg, I have no intention of defending the State Commission for Public Procurement in that section you mentioned and procedure, and long arguments and everything you spoke of. But we're all aware of a huge problem together that we all have, in a way, that we're calling contests, complaints that are being held there in that part, so I'd dare say some kind of paranoia where all of them are potentially practically already at the very beginning suspected of some sort of setup. The paradoxical situation is here I can show you this on one of my recent examples, it's about the school hall, the expansion of the elementary school where the selected bidder was even 2 million kunas cheaper than the one who complained. He had nine reasons for the appeal he made. She adopted a committee of 2 of which were I would say the banal nature of the type did not deliver in writing, but on the CD or was not translated from an English language by someone test. So, what am I saying? The procedure itself and the commission itself is not easy to decide in that section about some kind of appeal when you look at every cartoon and every point. So, we have some sort of banal reason that can easily be corrected which is not so crucial and important for the realisation of the project itself and we have enormous damage because after that decision, the commission that did not cancel the tender but only the decision, we did not want to make a new decision for the same reasons, but we re-scheduled the competition and practically lost 6 months to make the investment of 15 million kuna in the coming year. So we have two damages. One because he didn't go into project realization, one because he didn't choose the one that was cheaper 2 million kunas. And we have what the commission justifiably did, because she respected the procedure that she was in. And the fact is that this one delivered references in English that there were no translations or that some atest was on the CD, not in writing. So, what am I saying? The procedure itself and the new Law should simplify these things in a way that allows for the addition of a particular type of documentation. And now I'm not talking about the problems we have with this introduction of an electronic signature on the part that applies, through the People's Newspaper, and in that part that's a little bit stalking right now. So the more we complicate the law itself and the procedure itself, the more trouble we have in realising and later running the contests.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19734	Thank you. The esteemed representative Branko Hrg will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19735	Thank you very much. Dude, you don't even have to defend the Commission from me. I don't attack. I just put out what people have suggested to me where specific problems are and which should be addressed. They must be primarily in the law itself. Because under the law, everything else is passed. But you just said these problems yourself. So it's impossible to explain to the citizens why there's no contest, why something can't be done. It's impossible to explain to them if I can't explain it to myself. How do I explain that? And we definitely have a bottleneck in this part of our neck. The problem that I've brought here is really in that part to get one example of an interpretation, for practically the same or similar to the other, for the third third. In fact, there's not one thing I'm going to say is a practice that would be even. Those formal rejection issues are really not right. I don't understand that something like that can't be solved that if someone didn't formally hand over some paper that doesn't matter and there can be an additional delivery I don't see why. I think it's going to be something in this new law to deal with, but we have cases that definitely accept complaints about such banal things and what's true today that I believe no minister, no state institution or local self-government wants to be brought into a situation that someone is investigating him, that the media immediately declares him a thief, I don't know, criminal. People better go on the variant, make it 100%, so make it the lowest price, so nobody can tell me anything if it goes away. It's just like that and there's a bad climate in society with that public procurement and it's harmful to everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19736	Thank you very much. Next, on behalf of the Club of Representatives, let's change Croatia and SNAGA will speak to the distinguished representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19737	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I'm giving up the debate because I'm gonna be talking about the changes for the next few days, and this is history.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19738	Okay. Thank you very much. Then, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Sasa Djujic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19739	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Dear gentlemen from the commission. This report is correctly written, reviewed and reflected by the Commission's work and debate on it we can only talk about what we are pleased with, which we are not satisfied with in the work of the Commission. But I want to stress one other thing, that through this report we are only discussing those proceedings for which the complaint was filed, but not all public procurement procedures carried out in 2015. So in 2015, a total of 15 thousand 485 public procurement procedures were carried out, worth more than 40 billion kuna. In these 15 thousand 485 proceedings, a thousand 137 complaints were filed, which is only 7.34%. So 92% of the public procurement procedures carried out in 2015 are not the subject of this report and we don't know whether or not everything was okay there, but if no one complained about 92% of all the cases carried out then we can assume that these proceedings were carried out properly, but it doesn't have to be done. It should, of course, also be taken into account that the Commission cannot react itself to certain procedures but can act solely on the basis of the complaint addressed to the Commission, and when we know that the complaint cannot be referred to everyone but only to someone involved in the procurement process, the Public Procurement Administration at the Ministry of Economy and the State's Attorney's Office is no wonder that the percentage of complaints is small in relation to the total number of public procurement procedures. Often, only one bidder appears in the competition, so it is logical that he will not complain about the procedure he has received. When we see the number of public procurement procedures and the amount of public procurement jobs, then there is no need to wonder why this topic is important and why it is so media-attractive. And when mentioning public procurement in Croatia, the first thing that comes to mind is not transparency, setting up competitions and corruption. But when we see this report and listen to today's debate, we can freely conclude that things aren't exactly that way. In 2015, a total of 137 complaints were filed for public procurement procedures, 37% of which were adopted, and 28% of complaints were rejected while 23% of complaints were rejected, and 92% of the proceedings were not filed at all. These data show that 63% of complaints are still unfounded or inadequately filed and should point to the fact that the high percentage of complaints that are being rejected or suspended, which means that the applicants are unlikely to have enough knowledge in the use of legal protection or knowingly abuse the right to legal protection, after they have failed to pass the public tender, these data show that they are not changing over the last three years and are almost as much of the same and point to many problems in public procurement that I hope at least one major part of them will be solved by a new law, although this new law is also impossible to solve all the problems we have. Nothing revolutionary should be expected but significant shifts can be expected in relation to the current situation. We also face an increasing number of procedures related to European funds that are in themselves complex and complicated, and should certainly put emphasis on education and staff enlargement in the future, both the members of the Commission and the people who conduct the public tender procedures. Many of these European competitions also fall because of the intricacies of people who carry out inadequate teamwork or unskilled staff especially at local level and cannot expect from people in small municipalities and cities who do not even have the resources to engage some external associates, who have generally spent some small public procurement. They are now meeting with the European millions that they will be fully and there should be an emphasis that these people are educated to help them and to make it easier for them to work better in the future. I would also like to stress that it is extremely important, and that is what you said in your report, and that is anti-corruption action. But my question is, how can the commission act on those 92% of cases that are not covered by this report? Probably not. But we don't know what's going on there, so maybe you should put an accent there, because I repeat again, if there's no appeal, it can be assumed that there's nothing wrong but it doesn't have to be. The colleagues also mentioned because of the bad climate in the society that was created, that all around us corruption and thieving were created fear of corruption, and then some people who conduct competitions and fear may go to some better variations and apply the existing models that they have in the current law, but what our colleague Hrg said earlier, it's easier to catch some banal formalities and say let it go so that no one will call me out, but it's not good and we suffer great damage all together because it's not the cheapest and most valuable. It is also important to point out that the revenues based on the fees for complaints in 2015 are slightly greater than 21 million kuna and the costs of the Commission's work of around 8 million so that it can be said that the Commission itself is financing and that it would be good in the future to increase the funds for the work of the Commission precisely for education and staff reinforcements as well as for programmes to prevent corruption in public procurement, and when we see these financial indicators then it really shouldn't be a problem and I think there would be enough room to do such things. It should also be stressed that the future needs to be done for the duration of the legal protection procedures at which Croatia is at its very top in relation to EU member states. The number of days of resolution of complaints is reduced by one day compared to 2014 but you will agree that it is not enough and that this is a good number. But I think it's the personnel reinforcements that would help the commission solve the problem. It is evident that the Public Procurement Act is current, which is in force full of shortcomings, that it has become obsolete and that it needs to be changed despite many improvements that have occurred in recent years. And I am therefore glad that the new law will be found in the debate in a few days, and I believe that through this law it will improve the public procurement system in Croatia even though there will always be shortages and we cannot solve everything immediately overnight, but every effort towards improvement is good. I hope that this new law will also reduce the negative perception of public procurement that is currently available to the public but on this law and all public procurement problems I will discuss when this law is on the agenda. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19740	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first of which is the distinguished representative of Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19741	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Djujic, this report says something different from what you said. You mentioned the problem in public procurement, the execution of tenders by units of local self-government. And you can see here a list of orderers who have 5 and more complaints procedures HEP, City of Zagreb, KBC, Ministry of Interior, Croatian Roads, Croatian transmission system operator d.o.o. Zagreb, etc. So it looks like local self-government may be better teamed up or maybe these people are even doing better work than where we're really well teamed up. And not to tell you the problem that is happening and that is yet to come and that will be the problem in Croatian waters. So most of this money for infrastructure, water and drain goes through Croatian waters. And there are now municipal companies owned by local self-government units pushing themselves into a abyss, because they are formal contractors of competitions and in principle they decide nothing. It's such a complex concept. And what happens tomorrow in these reports, will be written by local self-governments, cities, I don't know who had the most of these appeals procedures and was neither guilty nor obliged because from a national level they were literally forced to do something without being able to decide and still being punished, yet being punished, they still get a penalty of several hundred thousand kunas even guilty or debtors. So there's no record of what you said in this report at least.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19742	Thank you. The distinguished representative Sasa Djujic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19743	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Hrg, I did not say that they are the biggest problem but I said that especially in the small municipalities of these small municipalities they are not human enough teamed up and that I think you can agree with me, because a small number of complaints are here but a large number of small municipalities don't even manage to get the funds of European funds, so that they can then call competitions precisely because of this sub-capacitation. And I am this example, that is, I emphasized it here not to criticise the local self-government, but to appeal to everyone through my ability to see maybe the commission can help through education and support to local environments that the better they master that matter, so that they can get the funds and then conduct competitions. When they get the funds, then the least problem is to carry out the competitions, but many of them don't even get a chance to get something. That's what I'm talking about. But when you have a small number of those who are even involved in it, then the percentage of irregularities is low. That's logic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19744	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19745	Comrade Djujic, I will agree with you in one thing that you said you should consider allowing the Commission for public procurement and more resources, as you said. And I'm going to say on one example that literally caught me when I got a call from the State Commission on the phone where they asked me after a month, two how much they decided on a complaint so they could send someone up to Zagreb to get that documentation that we sent to them to take over is that their postage would be big so that they could save it. And according to this example, we have another example that happens specifically in Rijeka, where in a catastro where people are not going to be employed because there are some savings and practically investors, economic operators, local self-government units, we all wait for them to urinate there in land books for weeks, for months just because they don't want to spend money on employees' salaries that they should do. What are the damages of millions? I called the principal, he tells me if he understands the problem and he's preparing to send two people from Slavonia to the Catastre in Rijeka, provided we provide him with accommodation where these people will be. I mean, we're in absurd situations where with some kind of banal savings, we're doing millions of damages and cities, and municipalities and the state. What are we talking about? I mean, that's all the things to talk about. All of these examples that happen daily need to be built a new system that will eliminate all of this. And it's not savings to cut the number of employees. I agree that's too bad. It's a shame because time is wasting, and there is no professional experience without saying how minor their incomes are, and here it is for the employees in the Croatian Parliament and for the work they do.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19746	Thank you. And the distinguished representative Sasa Djujic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19747	And what to say to my colleague, Klaric, is to agree with you. You didn't say anything wrong this time. And this particular example of postage and postage savings is a good example. Because if the Commission is revenueing into the state budget 21 million kuna from taxis of those complaining to the Commission and spending 8 million kuna, then we certainly have room to increase their funds and that they can work and that they can have postage, etc. Catastar in Rijeka, here's what I agree with. We brought in, as the state is in crisis, so we put a limit on employment in some public enterprises. Now, the crisis is over, GDP growth estimates for next year are 3.2%. Soon we'll have a budget in this House, and here I suggest to you that I support a safe amendment to increase people's employment funds in the Catastro, for example, in Rijeka and that sort of thing. In fact, I'm glad to say that there are a lot of mayors and mayors here regardless of what they might be again, the debate is always a dilemma whether you can be one or the other. But here's counterpart Klaric you're here in a situation to present your examples with which you met. Most of them because you're mayor, but a lot of mayors don't have a chance to say what problems he has in this House. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19748	Thank you. We move on to individual debates and will be the first to be the distinguished representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19749	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here it is, when I'm talking about this report just a little bit, when I'm talking about this report, here's one thing that I'd generally like to start, it's about the work of the State Commission and praise the other thing that got in my eye so little and I'd like the answer and what's the reason and how it can be more rational in that part. First 21 million kunas, and 7 million kunas of expenditure is the result... So on this side, the commission justifies and is very productive, which could suggest that we reduce the fees for complaints. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, this should always be seen in the context of a person’s not complaining unseriously, but it means that this productivity is said to be, that the cost is essentially the processing of these complaints that are given less than what is charged by entrepreneurs. And on this side you should see perhaps suggestions related to corrections for these fees depending on the height of the case itself. We see that it's ranging from 10000 kuna, so where to get up to a million and a half kuna is defined to more. Since three times more is made than is spent, perhaps we should see how it would be possible to correct it. That's, say, the commendable part of this technical part. As for my inquiry about what I'm interested in is renting a space, or 800,000 kuna, which suggests 31 employees are doing about 26,000 kuna per person, or when it's divided into squares and some average square price is 27 to 30 square meters per employee. It's something that I think is too much or too much of the price of squares or too little of the employees in relation to the space held in the lease, so I'd also like a little clarification on the matter and whether something in the future is going to be done because we're always all sensitive about it. What is commendable is that it is highlighted in this report and that it is clear how much is spent on rent given that the state has very much, so we always talk a lot of space. Maybe it's not necessary to isolate it, maybe there's an adequate space. As far as complaints are concerned, what is the fact that the number of complaints falls year after year. What is pointed out here is that it is also about changing the rules, i.e. to reduce the number of complaints related to the amount of compensation, of course, which is more expensive to make a complaint. A lot of them decide and don't make a statement at all. And on the other hand, the increase in the threshold for the bazaar purchase that has been raised to 200 thousand kuna on the other side probably and less procedures. But what I would also like to point out is I believe that for years and education of people in public bodies, the level of transparency has been raised, that is to say, that people are doing better at the end of the day. And I am particularly pleased that in the last two years of 2014, 2015 the number of proceedings and complaints dropped by almost 50%, as well as the transparency of the work during this period of the units of public, i.e. the authorities of the state administration whether the ministries or units of local self-government. What is still worrying, means counterpart Jovanovic said 42 billion are being controlled there. When we see the number of complaints, 1112, when we take an average purchase, given that it's millions of kunas. So several billion kunas are making complaints annually, and we see that it's actually partially slowing down the economy, and there's, in part, certain and unrepentant shops. And one large amount of money is subject to commission control that does its job by me very correctly. The speed of decision is acceptable. But when you see and the amount of complaints is adopted is quite a large percentage, so almost 40% of what it says that among those who are 5 or more times, against whom 5 and more complaints are made should be taken into special attention. So I think that if we had some of the orders that were 5 or 8 procedures, 5 were a complaint, they were all adopted. So there's really something wrong, and maybe we should pay a little more attention to their actions, or to those who choose them, but of course, it's not just the commission's procedure. This is also the process of those bodies that should also deal with labour law or perhaps possibly be suitable for individual contracting authorities. As far as the technical part is concerned, the reports are quite transparent. I say, I support that the Commission is also acting educationally. It probably means that after a long series of years of work and many of the educations that have been held in this area, people are working more and more correctly. But anyway, there's probably still a lot I'd say intransparentities and procedures that deserve to be studied a little more closely. Because now we are coming into a sphere where we are going to change the Public Procurement Act and we need to pay particular attention to certain changes so that maybe someone in this area I would say time that requires a new law that will simplify the procedures that will allow me to tell a better quality of goods that may be uncompetitive from the domestic market at some point and with a price to find a way to the body of the state administration or public money so that something is not undermining, because we know, it often happens in these changes that someone manages to push in a provision that pleases a part of the market or services that may possibly be sold, and that would eventually be excluded from public procurement. So we're going to read this very carefully from the new Public Procurement Act. But I agree that the new Public Procurement Act can be a great help and recovery to the economic Republic of Croatia because we've had a lot of slaves to cheap non-quality goods, and our producers who could give better quality and cheaper goods that may not have been cheaper at first, but after analysing and maintaining and all that is related to the use and life-time of products, it could certainly have been cheaper to see the overall economic price, i.e. throughout the lifetime or use of a particular product or service. On that side, I support that law to be changed as soon as possible. This necessarily means that given the creativity of certain people, the commission will certainly have a little more work to do next year, but I think the overall effect on the Croatian economy will be positive. So here, support the commission's work. I think she's got a pretty good record. What I am also interested in, that I am given the answer, I see that one decision in the court was annulled by the commission in 2015 to hear about which decision was being made, whether certain damage had occurred to the bidder who had been rejected, and later in the court received a verdict in his favour, whether he filed a certain appeal and how all this had ended together to see that experience. I'm going to say right now that I'm not judging, and if that happens one case of a thousand and something, it's really not a big sample to talk about some unquality work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19750	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the distinguished representative of Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19751	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's a good thing I can teach you and what my colleague Maras said about this report we have right before the start of the debate on the new Public Procurement Act, which should be based on everything that has been read in these reports for years to be better and better quality and to ensure better transparency in this system, which really has huge reserves. Through the possibility of saving the European Commission's assessment that Croatia loses about 15% of gross domestic product annually due to public procurement corruption. So if we take another estimate at 42 billion, 20% is 8 billion kuna. I said the important effect of this Commission is this anti-corruption one. He's above all preventive. Since the Commission has no different powers and that through the existing State Commissions for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures there must be increased transparency, and transparency is crucial in the public procurement process. However, despite all this, I think that we were all shocked by the European Parliament's report, which the RAND Institute has shown that Croatia, Bulgaria, Romania and Latvia are the most corrupt by the perception index in the public procurement system in the European Union and that this is something we certainly need to worry about. One of the recommendations resulting from this Report is to introduce legislative and regulatory measures at national levels such as extending the cooperation protection mechanism and checking to a number of members of the European Union. So this is the mechanism introduced for Bulgaria and Romania when they joined the European Union just to prevent corruption. And it is estimated that Croatia could save 2.2 billion kuna per one mechanism and model and scenario, which is certainly not negligible money. And it would be good to think about that model too. What you would ultimately recommend to everyone. In preparation for reading this material and preparing for a debate on the Public Procurement Act, I encountered an article Jesse Budak published in June of this year called "Corruption in Public Procurement – Do We Need a New Model of Research for Croatia". I recommend it to everyone. It is available on the web and you can find lots of useful data and materials in it that can help transparency in the public procurement system to be greater. For example, one of the recommendations that stands out here is that we have e-digitalization that has entered the public procurement system. However, we do not have a register of contracts in public procurement which is particularly valuable for bagatel procurement, because we could see from this register whether a client is making contracts again and again with the same bidder in that system of bagatel public procurement, and then some other information regarding that public procurement system could be disclosed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19752	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the distinguished representative of Blaženko Boban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19753	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Yes, this report is very high-quality and concise and what the rapporteur is not, of course, due to time and time, I will read a paragraph that is very interesting and look back on that part. Compared to 2014, the percentage of complaints received was increased from 34% to 37% in the complaint procedure by the state commission in 37.8 cases rejected or suspended the appeal procedure. The appeal shall be dismissed or the proceedings suspended in the event of non-compliance with the process of assumptions, and a high percentage shall testify to possible ignorance in the use of legal protection or the reasons for the misuse of the right to legal protection. The estimated value of the procurement in the appeal proceedings in which the decisions on rejections were taken for the purpose of not paying the fee for the initiation of the appeal procedure or for the withdrawal of the appeal amounted to more than 6 billion kuna. Something here, MP Hrg referred to the second part of which is not in the report because the debate here was mostly in the course, but also the report on the contracting authorities, so we also have a table for the contracting authorities. However, segments and bidders are very important, or rather those involved in the procurement. Unfortunately today in practice in Croatia you have, ha I will not tell the firm of the bidder, but companies and professional complainants, so I would say both professional ones in the second degree and prosecutors. These are companies that do very much damage to the Croatian economy in total and their segment of action is just a professional regret in the second stage professional lawsuit with potential customers. So it would be interesting that we had in this report, as we had a table for the orderers that I absolutely welcome, and the whole part about the contracting authorities, that in this report we had a table for, say, bidders who, for example, complained to the commission five and more times, and the same thing that went to the second stage of the lawsuit, and mostly those who have five or more of those complaints, and that almost, not almost, but either one of them was adopted or one, or two. It would be interesting if we had a plate like that in our report, because unfortunately, the fact is that many today use this maneuvering space. I was wondering why the commission was so quick to resolve complaints and within 18 days when the complete documentation was made. And then I ask myself the question of what is the number of those solved in the period after 38 days when the paperwork is completed. I guess there's a large number of those whose resolution after 38 days when the paperwork is complete. What's he saying? So the offerer knows which documentation is to be delivered in the appeal procedure, but the deliberately difficult time gets another 20 days by completing, and then he just gets a request from the commission that does its job zealously that he is obliged to pay there compensation for it and does not pay. So for that reason we said here over six billion kunas is in that segment of financial costs whatever the public procurement is going through. In the meantime, the contracting authorities, for one reason or another, have already been told here, both on the one hand and on the other side of the assembly, by either this or that reason. The procurement cannot be done and it is simply past the deadline, a new budget is being adopted at local level, so the whole project must be transferred to a new year in the new budget, and the new budget will again ask whether there are funds, whether the project goes, etc., etc. We do have a series of such things. So it would be good for us to have such things through this report, unfortunately we who come from local backgrounds are aware that a large number of bidders are better said participants in the acquisition of such things. In particular, they deal with such things where local communities or generally contracting authorities work very transparently because of the fact that they have no other room of manoeuvre left. If they had any other maneuveric space left, they would have really come forward because they're willing to do such things and that other space. It is fortunate to be less and less of such opportunities, I hope and spiritually support the new proposal that we have not yet seen but we are aware of this current Public Procurement Act that it is very necessary to go to the amendments to this law which, in some way, I have discussed here today, in order for the bidders to again, I will call them professional complainants or prosecutors in the second degree, in a manner conditionally speaking, wings, and, in particular, if such as we unfortunately do not have in the table that we have five or more over one year, then it is a clear indication of what their meaning is in their business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19754	Your exposure caused several replicas. She's the first one to be the esteemed representative of Ivan Klarin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19755	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You said that there are professional companies that complain, of course they create a huge problem for local self-government units and, of course, all other companies that are liable to public companies and companies that are in a public procurement system. However, on page 20 of this report from the Commission which I would really like to commend, we see the number of administrative lawsuits received in 2015 and we actually see disproportionate treatment and resolved cases. powerful judgments. So we also have to allow those people who complain about the decision of the State Commission to control public procurement, of course they want to the Administrative Court, that allows the law, and then we see the complete dysfunction and the unhappiness of the Administrative Court, as well as in a number of other cases, as well. So in 2008, if I follow correctly, one solution is solved. One final ruling was adopted, with a view to increasing this to 52-35 in 2013 and returning to one resolved verdict later in 2015. I mean, what kind of legal certainty do we give to people who reach out to the appeal tool at the administrative court?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19756	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Blaženko Boban will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19757	Thank you very much, Vice President. I agree with you absolutely in that part. I deliberately quoted this part of the report here where 37% of the people who have been granted complaints, 37% of the denied complaint, and I wonder what the other 25% is, 26%? And then I find a solution in these 6 billion where he formally submitted a paper to the commission and the commission of course took it back, he got space for about 20 days or here in the report for 20 days, perhaps in the second phase of the administrative procedure and thus simply made it impossible for the client to carry out the procedure until the end. And it's almost six billion... for the banal stuff. I cannot understand that one bidder already engaged in serious procurement in relation to the contracting authorities cannot complete the document. Now imagine when I suggested we have a plate if there are five or more of them in the plates. It may occur at one point that he dropped some kind of document, but that in such a way, five times or more in one year for a reason, forgive me, it seems to me to be a very unserious bidder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19758	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19759	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Boban, you've located this problem well with those professional mourners you said. But in this work, we may not have yet mentioned another problem that comes very often when it all ends up like that on the table. The problem of public procurement often starts with a consumer, a projector who often finds hidden items that someone who is educated to conduct public procurement to a lawyer or someone who cannot be realistically seen. And there's this maybe the biggest problem of what we're talking about here all the time, and we're yelling about corruption. How do you prevent that? How do you put their responsibility on the table? So from the designer himself, from the project tender, then the projector and everything. That's the thing we have to pull. There's a problem in this part of the bidder itself, you've seen it well. So we're talking about low teaming, maybe people who aren't that educated, but a lot of people are educated in public services and at national and local level, but we're also asking ourselves whether or not even the bidders have a problem with education while they're making an offer. Because they too must have the law, some smaller bidder, realistically looking very hard to report to the competition because they cannot satisfy all these formal things that they need and probably can perform some works and these are our people and we are disabling them.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19760	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Blaženko Boban will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19761	Thank you. Yes, Mr. Hrg, you are absolutely right about this work, but you spoke about the designers, unfortunately, not unfortunately, but the designers in the greatest part are chosen by the foundation of public procurement. And then the designer, I'm going to illustrate to you what you know, and then the designer offers you a dumping price and you're based on the existing law when it comes to taking this projector and not knowing that he might be hiding something in the coster in agreement with tomorrow's bidder who's going to be doing business on the ground. And that's a really big problem. That's why I'm really looking forward to a new law on public procurement where I think that kind of thing should really try to get rid of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19762	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19763	Comrade Boban, you are the longtime head of a local self-government and you certainly know this problem and public procurement, and it is visible here as now also colleague Hrg said that projectors themselves can mean to push through a lot of things that simply a lawyer who conducts the procedure does not have to know and is not obliged at all. So in a new law that we all agree here that we should go as soon as possible to ensure that public procurement is done better, to protect public interests, but with all these problems and only this report, which we are witnessing is that there are a huge number of illegal public procurement procedures here. We have meaning, here I had confirmed millions going into the wind all to the harm of our citizens. That is why this law should include everyone and I see here and the agreement on the left and on the right and on the centre that it needs a new law because simply one third of the money, 40 billion kuna is not a small amount of money to literally destroy competition because the fact that much more competitive companies, much more competitive products, better, more quality simply can't go through and the most dangerous thing is that those who are high-quality ultimately due to some quantity don't go away, we lose, we lose good employers, good products and the fact that it's only, and you've confirmed a new law that needs to be quality and all of these remarks, so before the debate itself should all be included together and that we preserve those 40 billion kuna, the funds that are our citizens' money on the annual level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19764	Thank you. They will answer the esteemed Blessed Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19765	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bulj, if you were here in some way, you looked generally at the problem of public procurement and you're absolutely right about that segment. I tried to trim a part within that public procurement and the relationship of the bidder also to the client. It was mine in some way, and when I talked about it, then I think the basis of the Law on Public Procurement of a new one should take account very well of those additional works and those 25% of the possibility of additional work. A number of other segments should be taken into account. If it is as we hear and in the announcement from the minister, the law will be much more liberal then it must be clearly related to the implementation of that public procurement tomorrow in practice, i.e. the implementation of the ordered works must be said more precisely in terms of the annexes of contracts that are being done and for a number of other segments. But all participants and contracting authorities and legislators and tenderers, and even the general public, must really participate in the making of this law in a way that it is truly tolerable, flexible, liberal, fast, efficient, and on the other hand very, very precise about the implementation of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19766	Thank you. And the last individual debate is that of a respected representative of Pera Cosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19767	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected rapporteurs, colleagues and colleagues. General public opinion which is confirmed through various public media and public opinion examinations. It is that public procurement is a particularly fertile ground for various manipulations, illegal agreements and corruption. We are witnessing a number of public procurement procedures in which certain economic operators have been eligible, from the procurement of a specific type of vehicle to the directors of public procurement, to the procurement procedures in which the subject is complex and very often represents a special interest of the Republic of Croatia. It is noted that public procurement is financed by taxpayers' money, and in the last few years and European Union money. And it is expected that such public procurement will grow in the coming period. DCOM should therefore be the first pillar in the fight against such forms of manipulation and even the committing of criminal offences in the conduct of public procurement. The report on the work of the State Commission does not show how DCOM fights such phenomenal forms and certainly has in everyday practice. The content of a number of complaints lodged in public procurement proceedings suggests that bidders warn DCOM of the observed irregularities and even suspicion of committing criminal offences. In fact, in one complaint case, the decision is also available on DCOM's website. The complainant warned the State Commission that the contracting authority had allowed the selected bidder to replace part of his offer in the course of the examination and thus to obtain a public procurement contract. Therefore, after the expiry of the time limit for the delivery of tenders after which the tenders may not be changed. The complainant established that during the examination of the tenders after the selection decision was taken, since it established that the digital offer, i.e. the CD that had to be delivered, was created after the time limit for submission of tenders had expired. DCOM, in its decision refusing to appeal, finds that it has received information on the suspicion of a criminal offence in the selection process of offers, but although it had all the evidence on its part, because in the process of resolving the complaint it had all the documentation relating to the procurement procedure had nothing to do with the matter but advised the complainant to say, I quote: "Any legal or natural person who has serious or certain knowledge of the criminal offence and the perpetrator can report to the police, or submit to the record criminal application to the State Attorney's Office or police." Instead of responding to the obvious illegality in the conduct of the public procurement procedure, DCOM made it possible by rejecting the applicant who has unlawfully manipulated the offer to conclude a contract on public procurement and thus obtaining property benefit to the burden of public funds. There is a legitimate question why DCOM as a legal person who has all this knowledge, and with all the evidence that was with them and has not reported it to the police or the State's Attorney's Office. For this reason, I would like to ask the DCOM representative to explain how the Commission reacts in the event that he or she finds abuses by the contracting authorities or tenderers in the procurement process from the content of the complaint or other available data during the decision. Also, there is no record of how many criminal charges the Commission has filed during 2015 for the offences of abuse in public procurement, illegal bargaining or similar offences. Furthermore, a total of 987 received and solved items were received on page 13. All analyses in the work of DCOM were based on this number of cases, however, of these 987 resolved cases even 281 were rejected and almost all were rejected because, after the complaint was filed, the prosecutor did not pay the compensation. This means that these 281 objects did not go into processing, i.e. DCOM did not quantify the complaint itself. Also in 92 cases the procedure was suspended and it was the same before the case came into processing and decision-making. And it takes neither much time nor special expertise to make such decisions, but it is an administrative business and a procedural issue that ends the appeal procedure. In practice, this means that there were just over 600 cases in which a metric decision was made. In view of this number of cases where DCOM has indeed made a measurement decision, it is only possible to conclude that in such cases it is necessary to decide much longer than those declared 38, or 18 days as it stands on page 15 of this report. But to adopt almost 60% of complaints, which is a big difference compared to what the introduction himself said from 37% of the complaints made. Also, if DCOM's income was slightly more than 21 million kuna which is on page 22 of this report, it turns out that over 12 million kunas have been paid by public contracting authorities, i.e. budget and extra budget users. In this context, other analyses such as the number of administrative disputes adopted, the time of resolution of complaints, the share of public procurement financed from the European Union, EU projects, etc. should also be observed. What is further concerned is the extremely long-term appeal procedures in which the subject of public procurement is financed by the European Union's funds, which are mostly of interest to the Republic of Croatia. Although the legal deadline for deciding on complaints is 30 days, although the Commission itself has set such appeal procedures as urgent, we have witnessed that such proceedings rarely last for 6 months. Since the withdrawal of funds from various European Union funds is intensified and is expected to increase the absorption of funds in the coming years, I believe it is necessary to stress that the State Commission must organise its operations in a more efficient manner and speed up its behaviour. It is also important to point out that DCOM decides on issues of technical or technological nature, neither from the report nor from the DCOM decisions itself, by which DCOM chooses external associates, experts and other experts whose knowledge is needed in order to make the right decision. The report states that because of the complexity, the complexity of DCOM material is used by external associates or experts. Since it is the rule of the largest and most complex in the field of procurement, it is unclear how experts, who choose them, how an anti-corruption element is secured, who and how they answer for their opinions, who controls their work, how much they are paid, etc. Namely, how can transparency and independence of DCOM be ensured and prevent the conflict of interest of such experts when there are only a few experts in the Republic of Croatia who are rarely employed by interested bidders? I believe that the DCOM should, as all courts do, indicate which experts it has hired and make such expert opinions available in order to verify their credibility. And for the end. During 2015, a change of practice in the interpretations of the Public Procurement Act was observed by DCOM e.g. until last year, DCOM took the view that the application of the Institute of Explanatory and Complementary Documentation in the offer of only the right but not the obligation of the contracting authorities and the complaints of those complainants which indicated the failures of the contracting authorities in this regard were rejected. During 2015 DCOM changed its position and began to annul the selection decisions if the client did not call the most favourable bidder to remove the deficiency by clarifying or completing it. Although the change of practice in this regard is welcome, the question is, what has the DCOM decided to change the practice when the Public Procurement Act has not changed? And what kind of message sends unequal practice to economic operators involved in public procurement procedures? In conclusion, I believe it is necessary for DCOM to take over the real control mechanism in public procurement, especially taking into account the numerous irregularities we are witnessing, as well as the public's view of transparency, and also to favour certain economic operators. I call on the DCOM to raise the organisational level in the future and welcome the challenges that we face as a society as a whole, in particular that as a body that first makes a statement about the decisions of the contracting authorities enables efficient public procurement and the maximum absorption of the funds available to us from the European Union funds. In this regard, I ask the DCOM representative to show himself about all the critical points of his business that I have touched in my presentation and to respond to what activities DCOM will improve its work in the future, there has also been talk of an electronic procurement that has already taken place that will certainly improve efficiency and transparency and, of course, this new Public Procurement Act that has come to us on benches today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19768	Thank you. We have one replica, and it is a respected representative of Ivan Šipić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19769	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here, it certainly should be pointed out in this report of yours and yours, Mr. Coric, that no one mentioned when we look at the structure of the employees of this office, it should be said that too few people are certainly on this number of cases and the number of processed objects that work in this commission. This is certainly one of the problems, so the teaming of the state commission, because many of the cases which in the appeal procedure are simply neither time nor quality with this number of people – I believe that you will all agree – it is not possible to process whatever we see here that time limits are set and they exist. It's no problem if the appeal is accepted or rejected. Most often, especially for those of us who come from local self-government, it is not a problem whether it will be accepted or rejected, but it is the biggest problem that at that moment everything is standing in those deadlines, it all stands for investment of the apartment and we don't know what happens most often. I'll say from my example. One time I went to respond to the commission, and one of the officers told me where you came from – when I introduced myself to who I am, which is where you got the right to do so, it turned out to be an influence on someone. However, I did not influence anyone, but I just wanted to say that this process is being accelerated. What is needed, then, is certainly a question of the conditions in which this office works as many others do. But we also heard here today that many complaints often show that it is an empty shot because then these deadlines are used which is best, said colleagues from practice and then is born in this appeal procedure for doubt. I believe that this new law, which we will have the example and the opportunity to discuss these days, will be at the service of the best possible implementation in practice to make it easier for everyone – and for those who compete, and for those who will realise many projects tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19770	Thank you. The honourable representative Pero Ćosic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19771	Thank you very much, colleague Šipic. In fact, this report shows that the total cost of the commission's work is around 8 million kuna, and the revenues are 21 million kuna should not be filled with the state budget with these funds, but simply those funds should be returned to the Commission's work and the effectiveness of the commission's work should be speeded up due to the impasses in the economy. We are witnessing that these offers take several years for the competitions to be repeated and that the commission should be more efficient. And I hope that this electronic handover offer will speed up and this part of the collection of these 18 days as long as it takes the collection commission they will be able to pull that documentation one click and it will be more effective in that work. And here I think that's how we're going to get rid of those 200 or 300 complaints that go into this statistic, and they don't need great expertise and some knowledge is just one administration, and that these procedures will eventually be within 30 days, if there's some tough case, if we're witnesses of these European funds where they come in big... which you've been talking about here today where and the technological processes of devices for... need enough experts, but certainly these experts have to be public, they need to know who they are and their opinions have to be available to everyone because there's a part of the doubt in some of the actions that may be favored by certain bidders and manufacturers of such things.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19772	Thank you. And now, on behalf of the promoter, the final word will be given by the president of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, the esteemed Goran Matesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19773	First of all, I must thank you for the highly constructive discussion and about the consensus that today ruled here towards better legislation. In turn, the distinguished representative, Boris, told a complaint about the EU sewerage system financed, lost funds, the state commission has made a decision to annul the election decision. I hope no one is making a dilemma between legality because the state commission is a legal controller. Yeah, some assets are lost. What's the alternative? To make an illegal decision and in that ex post control you have a sanction and a refund of funds. It's not a safe alternative. What I'm trying to say is that the state commission is certainly not perfect is not as sinless as no court is without sin, but that's why there is a possibility beyond the court of another instance as well as above the state commission that there is a possibility of judicial protection. It is true that you have noticed that unlike the speed of decision of the state commission, courts decide in time of year and two days and that even the same courts have different practices, and then different courts have different practices, and then all these first-degree administrative courts don't actually follow their own practice, because these decisions by administrative courts are not publicly published as in public procurement as decisions by the state commission. And it is precisely one of the proposals that was made by the state commission and the earlier report that administrative court decisions are being made public. In that case, administrative courts themselves could take into account the consistency of their own practice. Mr. Krstic MOST, the inequality of practice, and some others spoke about the inequality of the practice of the state commission. I want to say quite categorically that the state commission has an extremely uniform practice, that the state commission doesn't have an unequal bang. What I'm saying is that the expert public knows what the problem is. The problem is in a very subtle and different factual state, so one is the Public Procurement Act, but other than the Public Procurement Act, what the regulation under which the procurement procedure is conducted is also the documentation prescribed by the contracting authority. If the purchaser makes a formality by his own free will some time, and he does not follow that formality, then he has made a mistake so when the commission sanctions it because the documentation and the law are the rules under which the procurement process is conducted, then it is not the formalist commission but the commission has acted in accordance with the documentation. And the question can be asked whether the client should have prescribed some banal strictness, so he did not comply with the procurement procedure and allowed someone to make a successful score in the frog. What is also difficult for the superficial readers of the decisions of the state commission is and therefore there is an opinion on inconsistency, the decision of the state commission except for this different factual situation, and it can be said that in the same public procurement institute and the public procurement law, the state commission has different decisions, for some time precisely because the documents are prescribed differently. So the documentation is complemented by the Public Procurement Act. The second reason is the fact that the appeal procedure, which the state commission has been pointing to for several years, has been illogically constructed and is based on the complainant's appeal allegations. So the state commission is only questioning what the complainant said and just as the complainant said. Of course, that's not a good solution. We pointed at him and on the last report, and that is something that will now be influenced by the law and changed. But if one complainant points out one complaint, the other at the same institute. In one case, the State Commission enters the issue, the other does not enter, but it is a matter of law. For surface users can be talked about inconsistencies of law enforcement, however here I and our members are very often meeting with the contracting authorities and bidders through here some education procedures conducted by public institutions. And most often, when we meet with those specialists who know the right to public procurement and problems, then this objection about inconsistencies ends up not being about the same cases. Not using oral debate, some of your enquiries or remarks are somewhat contradictory, which is quite all right. So oral debates help experts, oral debates are contrary to the speed of the procedure. From this point on, the State Commission is actually very often almost never used just because this 18 or 38-day deadline that is long for someone is short for someone but is as it is and as it is to be combined with other deadlines for the duration of the EU appeal procedures. We found it unproductive to schedule oral discussions because the oral debate must be scheduled 7 days in advance, and the call in 7 days in advance must be made 4 days or 3 days in advance so that the one who has been called to the hearing may receive it, so 10 days in those cases is something that we have self-responsibly held responsible that we should not lose. What we do in order to do, what the State Commission is doing in order to bring these professional technical issues, which are increasingly almost exclusively complaints, to solve them. We're lawyers, or most of the board members are lawyers, so like judges, we don't have technical expertise, it's no secret. So like the court, we can use the witches instead of using the witches you all as citizens know what's wrong with the court warlocks in the Republic of Croatia. The duration of the skill process that we've all read from 6 months to 4, 5 years. Those who work have worked, they have court practice, they know that's the case. So using a court expert is also contrary to this speed of length of procedure. What we're asking is that we ask the orderer and the bidders to deliver evidence in terms of technical findings, and that's the method in which both sides of the delivery find some of the court's experts that we're confronting, exchange on the basis of their party experts, so each of us is actually dealing with these technical issues. We don't have a list of experts, we don't have a list of the witches we appoint, we don't use forensics, and this means of proof, in the form of expert findings, they're listed in our arguments. The possibility of filing indictments for violations, there are two points, one less and less we find the reasons, so cases in which the indictments for violations should be filed, which means that less should be filed. And the other thing, almost all of the defendants we submitted even when the act was fully proven, the offence would end with the acquittal of a misdemeanor court in which we would find that the mayor of xy did, however, that there were extenuating circumstances and then he would be released from responsibility. So we can actually say this tool is not effective. Dear Representative Hrg, why is no practice department established? I mean, he's been established. And another question was, he was actually established, but in order to establish in the Croatian administration, in order to change the organisation you have to get consent from the Ministry of Administration even though the State Commission is an independent body we have to ask for consent from the Ministry of Administration, so when we get it and we get it because we want to organise that service and then it will contribute to what you noticed. We didn't actually get money in that year here, so we couldn't actually form that service. It is indicated that this will be corrected in the next financial year. Why is the practice between the Council not harmonised? So I've answered our practice is highly harmonised. But why don't we just take a moment to analyze what practice means? As prescribed in Article 25. A law on the State Commission that says that if the State Commission finds that there are different reasons than it has decided in an earlier decision it should call a session, form a legal understanding and publish it, etc. In fact, the Croatian judiciary in legal protection for public procurement has established a precedent law that does not exist anywhere but only in public procurement. This prevents you once you make a decision and form a legal position in one issue in which you do not go deep because of the legal allegations and because of the freshness of the legal problem, so that you can never change that legal opinion again or that you have to change it by strict form. We have indeed done so in several cases and, among other things, we will propose that when the Law on the State Commission is amended, such a provision should be amended. It is simply that every judge in the Croatian judiciary judges according to the fact and free belief and what needs to be done is to give an explanation so that those who are not satisfied can seek protection in advance. And that's what the State Commission does. One question was why, in some cases, the State Commission goes into formality and does not adhere to the principle. In a science called nomotechnics dealing with regulation, principles are known to be pillars or the basis of a law. And each of the principles if there are more are then discussed in different articles. So this final formalism is a reflection of one of the principles. This final article may, however, be contrary to some other article and also to the principle. But then you're talking about it, then we're already talking about having an inconsistencies regulation, and we've heard among all of you, and also among the large numbers of all the holder's stacks to talk about and that the Public Procurement Act is often contradictory and that they have legal gaps. Then when that formality is inevitable as I would say, when it is sometimes both unnecessaryly formalised and precise by the contracting authorities that do this to the documentation, it is not possible for us to avoid applying it or sanction non-application by the contracting authorities. We have told better judicial protection what the practice of administrative courts is, therefore, the purpose of judicial protection that lasts for two years and the diversity of legal practice, and also legal uncertainty results in our proposal from the State Commission, which, as far as I know, was adopted in the new Public Procurement Law Proposal, which is that jurisdiction in legal protection would be entrusted to the High Administrative Court. And that would be one court that would have similar jurisdiction established by the Competition Protection Agency, which is quite logical. In that case, a court could formulate a unique practice that is not being achieved today. I hope Mayor Bakar doesn't mind that I personally called him, asked him to, if there's any possibility of taking over the postal package. So in the last two years we have reduced the cost of mail and we have communicated with public enterprises of the type of Croatian road, Croatian waters based in Zagreb HEP, which bring us vans of documentation. We spent 15 to 20,000 kuna a month on postal services by returning those packages back. What we did didn't compromise the function. The paperwork is taken over by power of attorney and in a valid way, but we are now about the cost of 6 to 7000 kuna per month. It may have been a shame for you to organize from Bakar, but it wouldn't be a condition at least not on our side. As for the good analysis of the last speaker, and it is related to the education of members of the State Commission and in general the budget of the State Commission is in the report you have in front of you that the budget is 8400, that when the salaries are denied, when 800,000 kunas for the cost of rent we have less than a million for all material costs including education, official roads. And our education is actually for the most professional problems that we meet the type of European structural investment funds are not in Croatia. For a reference in 2015, we had only one official trip abroad. Renting space, truth 800,000 kuna. Our co-counsel is FINA. We tried to take off that lease and we have a passing figure for DUUDI, which is 8 euros per square. But that space still has 30% of the corridor. So we don't use these rental funds well. You said that one decision in the 15th State Commission was annulled by the Administrative Court. More than one has been cancelled, but one from the 15th. I, I can't give you the answer that the decision is about, but I don't know how, I can answer you in writing. Electronic procurement. More speakers are mentioned. Recently, I was at some consultation organised by the Institute of Public Administration, which discussed e-government, so on the communication of citizens by electronic means with the state. I was fragrant, but I had to refer to how in public procurement there was an electronic advert, that there was an electronic delivery offer, and that soon it was in the announcement and electronic appeal. So it's something that public procurement is whatever we're talking about perception, public perception in front of the rest of the public functions. The information on the bidders or the black list of bidders is something that must be entered into the law in order to make it easy for public, contracting and public companies to reach an agreement. They're being watched publicly. But when it comes to private bidders, then that black list must first come into the law, and then I believe it will cause a lot of problems. The duration of the procedure for more than 18 days, so that the procedure takes more than 18 days when, I guess, it is clear that in the European Structural Investment Funds, no one can expect that one van of the documentation will be reviewed, analysed, assessed by the complainants who know how to count by a hundred claims. Our complaints count 30, 70 pages. It needs to be controlled. We have said that we are reporting intensively and say that the European Structural Funds are one question that must be given a specific answer. We've been doing special reports and we've been following that up ever since these cases showed up. Yes, these are complex objects and these are the items in which you should when you notice you look for what we have said expert opinion and then you should pass the time. And some cases have been on the state commission for so long. They haven't been in six months, but they've been on the state commission for a long time. The truth is what you've well noticed is that the object, the amount of objects that are being discarded, is shortening the deadline, that we've given the average, that's correct. It's a complaint manipulation. We're all aware that these 30% complaints that are being rejected is manipulation. There's no way to cut the deadline, because it's the right party. A party that has not made a completely perfect complaint must be called and allowed to correct it. So the abuses were the only ones in the case of these fees. It's rarer in terms of content. These are more and more often lawyers are making complaints. So, it's just being manipulated with fees. And our proposal, which was adopted to pay the fee, is an integral part of the complaint, and unless proof of payment of the fee is included in the complaint that such a complaint is immediately dismissed. We're going to speed things up a little bit. How does the state commission react when it finds that a crime has been committed, a crime? He's filing a criminal report. If in that case where you spoke, Mr. Cosic... we filed a report we didn't find that there were elements to criminal charges. It should be said that corrupt crimes are so easily not seen in the phase of control that we do. These are the most common if there is, and there is, but we can't say that there is because it has to be determined and proved, these are mostly covert crimes. You do not have in the documentation a cartel agreement in which several suppliers, suppliers, or suppliers of a product appear in the community. But from the fact that they appear in the community, you have a signal that they're in the cartel. But that's more of a question in the jurisdiction of the Competition Protection Agency, which, by these certain symptoms, we find it suspicious to report and then they sort of take over these jobs. The long-term appeal procedures for European Structural Investment Funds despite the provisions on haste, that they are simply complicated – I do not know how it would be possible for such an object to be decided very quickly when it is simply a bunch of facts and a bunch of complaints – I also bring it into contact with the current legal protection structure under which legal protection was solely based on appeal allegations. So it is the mourners who have protected their interest, and, indirectly, the public interest. The procedure under official duty by the State Commission has been greatly reduced so far, and then the complainants were forced to complain about everything and everything, even when it was clear to them that something was not so, so he says – let's say the state commission might have noticed something. Well, that's the consequence of the fact that we have huge appeal allegations. One part, watch out, even when lawyers write complaints, and lawyers write short lawsuits, you're all witnesses a lot because they don't know what will end, which will happen after 4, 5, 10 years of litigation, but in public procurement lawyers write 50 pages of complaints. I told you about technical knowledge. I told you about the outsiders. The change in practice and then you cited the question of Article 92 in which at one point the State Commission held that it was a free right of the contracting authority, and later found that it was a discretionary right and that it must explain it and that it must be implemented in accordance with the principles is a logical progress by me professional which the professional public has quite well accepted and reflects the fact that the right is progressing. Here, I think I also answered about the deadlines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19774	Thank you very much. There are more replicas on your display. She is the first to be respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19775	Thank you very much. Comrade Matešić, you have referred to my one quote on the famous decision on the water treatment system in Vodice. We didn't get along well, you said a better decision later, but a wrong decision that you might even agree to. But it was really about having a project worth 141 million kuna. And here we are now coming to the responsibility of a civil servant, an official, a local official, we understand what I'm talking about, which means 140 million kunas that we can solve money that's cheaper than our domestic who's standing here, and we're acting the way we're doing. And then it's 113 days to make a decision and another month more until it's published. So we're wasting time, and the funds have their own legality and rules until we can figure out how long it takes when we can negotiate... plus three so we can use it etc. So here we lost a lot of money. The same has threatened us in the case of the railway section of Dugo Selo-križevci and there has been.....but the loss of a billion kuna is something that a state official or an authorised man who works on your commission should imagine and ask what I am doing because if before that appeal we will solve 400 other less important ones that we will reject if they are lower amounts and I don't know any different then the question is how we manage our resources at our disposal, regardless of how you have the right and by law and regulations to take these items as a priority and to solve them before. So you're still looking for that moment of will and knowledge and speed to get some things done because I don't know what should be written if you'd better lose 140 million kunas that we might have used or written a decision to see what we can do in that whole system. This is how we lose clean money and pay with our people who are here all the time... I think these complaints still need to be seen in some way a little bit how to solve it better.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19776	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19777	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable President of the State Commission. I am pleased to hear this about the department that you have received consent from the Ministry of Administration and that it is expected to be formed in view of your financial indicators that you have presented in this report I believe that there will be good faith by the restors who should support you in this section and that this money will be provided in the budget for the state commission. I can't agree with your finding that there was no unequal practice. It was and I could really bring it to you argumentarily, but it's all past tense and now there's really no point in wasting around that time, but the fact is that it's complained about both the contracting authorities and the bidders. So we have situations where literally the same problems are located both of them, although often they are in difficulties, and often they are ultimately the opposite sides if someone is not the most favourable in that part. So it really was and it would be good if definitely and there was some kind of uniform practice. I do not, of course, go into these things, but in some ways, that the commission will be more flowful and, in the end, what my colleague Boris was saying earlier and the use of European funds for projects will certainly bring a lot of work to the state commission. And it would really be wise to insist, even from you who, of course, are in it daily, that the human being should be even stronger and that we prepare ourselves for this process because we will lose not only 140 million but will lose huge money in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19778	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Pera Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19779	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Matesic. You said in your final speech that there were no indications or I don't know exactly what crimes in this complaint I was talking about, but the complainant was specifically when it came to it in his complaint where he proved that the original was not responding to the copy and that it was simply on those pages where the original text was not the same on the copy, so the copy and the original were not identical because it was usually rejected by the offer that the contract which was inside was needed to be filled with the amount of the cooperatives' offers to all of them, and how much knowledge I had on the CD was not immediately pointed out because that bidder would correct it, means the CD status which was there and which you could see which was made not known 20 days after the transfer of the offer when the CD was not deliberately placed because it would probably have been revised and that part of the offer and could not be proved, although there was a copy of that CD. Why don't I know the other one should be proof that that's the case? You are in your complaint, though, that you are judging according to that statement of appeal and that the appeal is completed, but for which the complainant's testimony to the client's statement is sought, means the appeal procedure is pending until it is completed. In particular, it's... it's my way. You are changing the practice in this part of which I have welcomed means that you have to ask for a supplement of the offer if it falls into a domain that is subject to the additions of the offer and to save money and speed up the process and everything else. So in this case there are all these allegations as much as you want, but you said yourself that you only decide in that rate that's written in the complaint but not in other knowledge, but it's just so hard to say a violation where you could see it, you could also unbound to the state's attorney's office and the police that...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19780	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed representative, Ivan Klarin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19781	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here is your report, which has been touched by colleagues in their replicas, which states that the possibility of using the European Structural Funds has led to the process of public procurement of high complexity that detected the weaknesses of the legal framework. I think that should be avoided, these are individual cases I won't bring them up even though I also have knowledge as the head of the local self-government unit, but it's just that these things don't happen in the future, given that they're really huge resources. Here, for example. Only in the region of Dalmatia will you build in the next 6 years systems of disposal worth nearly a billion kunas, so directly withdrawn from the structural funds. And I think it would be good if, although you have stated that the average deadlines of the appeal are 38 days or so. resolution, but definitely on these individual cases, it can also be very, very long-term and it is a really big problem because we are talking about extremely large funds from cohesion funds, from EU structural funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19782	Thank you very much. That's what I'd like to conclude with this point. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We will continue to work tomorrow at 9.30 with a united debate on tax laws that we discussed in the first reading. Thank you very much. Good-bye to tomorrow. Session interrupted at 17.40 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-29-0.u19783	The next annual report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2015. The report is submitted by the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: an annual report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2015. Please engage in the vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes are 125 for, 2 abstentions and no votes against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary parent committee.
